ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 13th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Tanja Zink, Mrs. Janja Slug, Dr. Jasna Murgel, Mrs. Ksenija Root Kramar, mag. Lilliana Kozlovich by 2 p.m., mag. Margareta Guček Zakošek from 2.30 p.m. to 17 p.m., Luka Mesec, Matjaž Hanžek and Mag. Dušan Verbich. I invited the President of the Government, Dr Mir Cerar, the candidate for Minister of Defence and the candidate for Minister of Education, Science and Sport to the 1st item of the agenda and representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 13th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 8 May 2015, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 13th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. Period of the day, it's on the defensive list of candidates for the Ministry. On the basis of the first paragraph of Article 112 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and of Article 229 and 234 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the Government of Dr Miro Cerar proposed to the National Assembly the appointment of two ministers of the Government. The proposal for nominations for both ministers was submitted to the President of the National Assembly on 29 April 2015. The President of the Government therefore proposes to appoint Mrs Andrejo Katič as Minister of Defence and Dr Majo Makovec Brenčič as Minister of Education, Science and Sport. The President of the Government proposed to the National Assembly that, in accordance with Rule 232 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, vote on the List of Candidates for Ministers as a whole. I give the floor to the President of the Government, Dr Mir Cerar, to further explain the proposal for appointment.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u2	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! On 29 April, I proposed to you the appointment of a new Minister of Defence, or Minister of Defence, as a candidate, your current colleague and Vice-President of the National Assembly, Ambassador Andreja Katič. After graduating from the Faculty of Law of the University of Maribor, Andreja Katič began her professional career at the Municipality of Velenje, where, from 1998 until the confirmation of the parliamentary mandate, she performed the work of the Director of the Municipal Administration in the current Congress. In her work, she thus met with tasks directly linked to the functioning of local institutions and economies. In doing so, it has been further strengthened by the work on projects through which the municipality has successfully drawn on European funds, in the belief that examples of good practices need to be upgraded with flexible and innovative approaches if we are to make full use of the development potential of the environment in which we operate. Throughout her work in the municipality she actively participated in the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia and in the Community of Municipalities of Slovenia, where she led the Commission for legal and legislative issues for many years. She also received a special recognition for achievements of exceptional importance for the development of local self-government and the extension of the Community role of the municipalities of Slovenia. Between 2009 and 2013, she was a member of the Management Committee of the University of Maribor, between 2007 and 2014 a member of the Council of the Health House of Velenje and between 2004 and 2008 the President of the Council of the Library of Velenje. As a representative of the municipalities, she participated in the Supervisory Council for the Operational Programme for the Strengthening of Regional Development Potentials and for the Operational Programme for the Development of Environmental and Transport Infrastructure and, as President of the General Assembly of Velenje and the President of the Supervisory Board, Elektra Maribor gained invaluable experience in the economic field. Andreja Katič also successfully tested herself in the role of Commissioner of Velenje – Unicef's child-friendly place, when Velenje was awarded the 2013 work of the Council for the Improvement of the Security of Citizens and Citizens, in which she is active today. All the years she has worked within the municipality have been active and cooperated with the civil protection headquarters in Velenj. Ambassador and Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia Andrej Katič has thus gained extensive organizational and managerial experience in her work so far. Also, before the term of office, as a long-standing member of the Social Democrats, she has gained considerable political experience. As a proposal to serve as Vice-President of the National Assembly, she also accepted the offer to serve as Minister of Defence, as she also wishes to contribute to the further consolidation of the situation of Slovenia at home and abroad. In its vision on the management of the Ministry of Defence, it predicts that it will actively pursue the stability of the defence system as a basis for effective and effective implementation of the mission to ensure the proper security of the State. In doing so, it will focus on ensuring that the Slovenian Armed Forces respond adequately to changes in the international security environment and the readiness of the Slovenian protection and resolution system to respond to natural and other disasters. In line with the changing and unpredictability of security threats in the wider region and the world that require constant adjustment of the defence system, it is prepared in the framework of Euro-Atlantic integration or multinational cooperation within various initiatives or so-called smart defences to take advantage of the opportunities available to develop Slovenia's specialised contribution, where smaller projects can also achieve efficiency for less money. It is also of the opinion that the Ministry of Defence's Intelligence Service should take strictly into account the legal framework of its activities in its work and be under the constant supervision of the Parliamentary Commission. On the basis of this, I propose that Andrea Katič appoint the National Assembly to serve as Minister of Defence. And now my proposal to appoint the Minister of Education, Science and Sport where I proposed to Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič Does the time pass? Well, then I'll take this for a while. As you know, she has so far served as the provoctor of the University of Ljubljana and has been very internationally active. During the period 2010-2013, the whole world, the so-called NAKVIS, worked as a projection of the development of strategy, international placement and quality at the Faculty of Economics. She is an excellent expert in the quality assurance of education, development trends in education and science and in the international field also covers all these matters. Its bibliography covers over 400 scientific and professional publications and has already been active in the field of education for almost a quarter of years and has been and is a member of important domestic university and international bodies, bodies and so on. Let me mention that it has also been actively involved in some of the activities of sport in Slovenia. As you know, it advocates everything we need right now for the development of education, especially for the development of science and higher education. It has many constructive ideas, especially the vision of science integration and higher education with the economy. It advocates the introduction of more flexible learning environments and the professional development of teaching workers. It is also aware of the need to adopt an appropriate new law on higher education and the law on research innovation. On the basis of all this and what she has already presented before the competent committee, she is reliably justifying her candidacy for this function, so I call on you and suggest that you also refer to Prof. Majo Makovec Brenčič as Minister of Education, Science and Sport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u3	In accordance with Article 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the candidates presented themselves to the competent working bodies and responded to questions raised by members and members of the Committee. It follows from the reports of the competent working bodies that the presentations of the candidates were appropriate. You have received opinions from the competent working bodies. The report of the Defence Committee will be presented by President Peter Wilphan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u4	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government, members of the Government and others present! Ms Andrej Katič, Minister of Defence, presented herself to the Defence Committee at the 7th emergency meeting. The candidate intends to put ahead of her ministry the readiness to respond to changes in the international security environment, the readiness of the Slovenian Armed Forces to act in accordance with security and foreign policy and the willingness to protect and solve natural disasters. According to her, we are in a period of uncertain international security, and although Slovenia provides its defence in the collective security system of NATO and the European Union, this does not, as it says, oblige us to take care of our own security. The crises facing the world are also our crises, and it is our responsibility to save them, she added. In its opinion, the readiness of both military and security systems needs to be improved. Among the main priorities of its possible ministry, the candidate highlighted the halting of the declining trend in employment and the means for modernisation and development. The applicant highlighted the need for stable and predictable financing of both defence and rescue systems. It also wants Slovenia to be able to meet international commitments and raise the amount of defence spending to an appropriate level of GDP, but it is aware of the real possibilities. A significant part of her presentation was devoted to the problems of the defence system. As one of the most difficult of all, she highlighted the human resources area, including the imperfections of the units, as the current workforce is not reaching plans, even due to the non-replacement of personnel. There is also a problem of not reaching the ratio of one officer to two officers and five soldiers. The candidate also agrees that defence legislation urgently needs to be reformed. In its work, it will also strive for a better relationship between members of the permanent composition and the contractual reserves of the Slovenian Armed Forces. Members also mentioned the very low military salaries and the resulting social hardships several times, and the candidate agrees that the salaries are very low and at the same time the soldiers are also buying contracts for a certain period of time, she added. It therefore intends to pay a great deal of attention to the management of human resources issues. With regard to the status of soldiers after 45 years, she considered that more efforts should be made to enable the retraining of soldiers and to move to other jobs within the public sector. With additional incentives, we could also make it possible to re-employ for the economy, and she was still thinking. It also noted a decrease in the number of employees in the administrative part of the Ministry of Defence for retirement. In her view, it should not be allowed for some generation to be absent from the system, so if possible, it will endeavour to continue this trend. With regard to the conduct of former Defence Minister Janko Vebra, Katicheva said that, on the basis of the documents available, it was not possible to say with certainty that he had done something illegal, but she believed that he acted in the best interests of the country. As she pointed out, the Ministry of Defence's Security Intelligence did not carry out its task, so she announced that she would accept the resignation of ODS Director Gorazad Rednak. If confirmed in the National Assembly, the candidate will endeavour to further cooperate and educate local and regional civil protection and mayoral headquarters. In the event of natural disasters, only a sufficiently rapid reaction can prevent serious consequences and, indeed, minor damage. At the conclusion, the candidate pointed out that she would maintain constructive working relations between all structures within the Ministry. It will actively seek to establish the broadest possible consensus among all political parties in the country and to give greater support to the professional and general public, which is a prerequisite for the further effective development and functioning of the defence system, as well as for the protection system against natural and other disasters. It also touched on cooperation and control. She felt that all the most important actors needed excellent cooperation, namely the Defence Committee of the National Assembly and the Government, which represents a political and enforcement level, the Commission for the Monitoring of Intelligence and Security Services, as well as the Ombudsman. It will also advocate a good relationship with the President of the Republic as Commander-in-Chief of the Slovenian Army. It also wants to have good contact with the President of the Government, as there will be a need for a number of coordination to provide the necessary financial resources for the operation and proper preparedness of both systems. The members of the committee then also had a number of questions for the candidate, to which the candidate also answered, the Committee took note of its views, views and opinions, and answered many questions in a very concrete and precise manner, which is more exceptional than the rule in such presentations. In the end, the Defence Committee voted. By 8 votes in favour and 4 against, he assessed that the presentation of the candidate for the Minister of Defence was appropriate, which means that she is also suitable as a candidate for this city. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u5	The report of the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth will be presented by the president of mag. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Prof. Maja Makovec Brenčič, who proposed for the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, presented and answered the questions of the members and members of the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth in accordance with Article 112 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In its opening presentation, the proposed candidate for Minister presented her past work and views on the area to be taken forward. She explained that the whole vertical of education and education is the one we need to look at in a coherent and comprehensive way. In the field of higher education, it plans to develop a comprehensive model of identification and quality assurance. In her view, it is necessary to link all what has already been done, evaluation, approaches within international research and comparable studies already carried out at higher education level, and to determine in a continuous and systematic manner where it is important to ensure such quality in verticals, which will be as comparable as possible to the systems to which we like most. The focus of development in the future is also a dialogue on the development perspective of the network of primary and secondary schools, the public network of adult education, and at the same time re-connecting all knowledge that already exists and build on this basis. It also touched on the areas of development of different forms of integration with the economy, from the introduction of apprenticeships to pilot cases of dual system development, both in vocational, vocational and higher education. It also sees as a major challenge the introduction of more flexible learning environments in connection with the development of all kinds of technologies and the professional development of teaching workers. It is also necessary to adopt a new law on higher education and the law on research innovation, and the autonomy of higher education and research institutions must be ensured. Due to the overload of NAKVIS with various programmes, it will be necessary to move towards institutional accreditation, to provide innovative learning environments and more flexible forms of study, and to enable a more intensive link between education and research. The link between the triangles science-education-economy must act as a cross-section and thus provide opportunities for development. She also said that in the field of sport, the Sports Act was being drafted and added that there were still many open issues in this area, including the linkage between health and quality of life. Following the presentation of the Minister's candidate, the panellists and the panellists wanted more detailed answers to some questions. The candidate answered the questions raised and took note of her views, views and opinions at the meeting of the Committee, as well as of more concrete proposals for action in the individual areas exposed to the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. A more detailed presentation of the candidate, the questions on the committee and the replies of the candidate are shown in the minutes of the committee's meeting. At the end of the presentation of the proposed candidate, the Committee adopted an opinion with 10 votes and 4 votes against that the presentation of Prof. Maja Makovec Brenčič as a candidate for the Minister of Education, Science and Sport was appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u7	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. Good bye to all of you! However we turn things around, Slovenia pays a heavy tax on new quickly selected faces without experience, without adequate client review, questionable and unverified competences and weak authority. We have too much work to do in this mandate, since this government has been practically engaged in the recruitment of ministers since its establishment. Some of them left after a few days. Two cases were sufficient to win the last parliamentary elections, Dr Cerar's persistent repetition of higher ethical and legal standards and the conviction and imprisonment of Janez Janša. Both planners, contractors and participants in the SMC project and the judicial and political liquidation of Janez Janša return and return as a boomerang. No government has ever changed as quickly as this one, no one has ever had as much ethical problems as this one, no one has ever had a minister in its composition who would break the laws and even by the constitution of a protected right as this one. The judicial and parliamentary elimination of Janez Janša has also collapsed. For 58 of you, with the help of a highly doubtful team, three months took part in a legal event, in which you invented a finding on the termination of the Member's term of office. Both decisions on the project to eliminate Janez Janša from political space, both judicial and political, have been removed by the Constitutional Court and put the natural rights of the winners back in a democratic framework. Unfortunately, all those who or consciously participated in these unethical and unconstitutional decisions, which have or have made a coded label out of ethics, continue to remain or remain in their places, remain or remain a key decision-making factor, including in the executive and legislative branches of government, that is to say, at the political level. You ask nothing of yourself, always only of others, for you are acting in your own conscience. The constant reforms of the government team are also the only ones that are actually happening. There's the government's rebalancing in front of us today. In all other areas, there's deadness, the government is constantly studying something, thinking. The SDS Members' content reasons or proposals are more or less systematically rejected, key issues are not ready to be discussed, and decisions and solutions are put forward by the coalition's revisions to the future. Or, as with emergency medical care, when a minister forces a manifestly poor solution, despite the mass opposition of the profession, performers and the public, the matter is being pushed through the process, all after the tested old model or recipe, if the nation is to deal with itself, and we will deal with other matters at that time. The President of the Government shall accompany each of his staff proposals with competences and confidence in the candidate. Each of his proposals is not to say good enough, if not good enough, and he expects results from the candidate. However, this mandate has not yet produced any results in any field. The Prime Minister of the Government, Dr Cerar, is very inconsistent with his proposals, including his staff proposals. One minister, Dr Stanka Setnikar Cankar, resigned or was forced to resign because of so-called academic fees. She's got a reprimand of accusations dropped on her. But ministers and Prime Minister of the Government, who have a similar fee burden, remain and are probably untouchable. Moreover, due to the fees, the retired minister will replace the candidate with the same burden. But where's the border? Whichever amount and in what way the fees obtained or earned are acceptable for the performance of political functions and which does not — there is no comment, no explanation, and also the proposal by the President of the Government does not contain anything. Which means that the President of the Government has no criteria when he proposes candidates when instead of a minister who resigned because of the fees, he proposes another person who is in the same system, according to the education system – she was employed only in another college – she also received fees. And it looks like the President of the Government is making fun of us who are going to make decisions and the public who is watching it. Although the public is interested in this area of fees, there is little media coverage. Moreover, the KPK no longer publishes profiteers; it ends at some imaginary limit of admissibility, although the level of fees has absolutely nothing to do with lawfulness, not with corruption, not with ethics, not with anything else. For one minister – this is Janko Vebra, who is supposed to violate two or three articles of the Defence Act – the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr Cerar, proposed discharge and carried it out. That's why today we're going to decide on the new Secretary of Defense. But for the Minister of Justice, Mag. Klemenčič, who, with the final conclusion of the institution of the rule of law, of the Court of Auditors that he had violated eight laws, three regulations and several contracts in his previous office as President of the Senate of the KPK, did not even consider replacing him. Apparently, Mr Klemenčič has too good a violation reference. The recent abolition by the Supreme Court of other parts of the report of the Klemenčice Chamber of KPK, which referred to the finding of Janez Janša's property status as a result of violations of the Constitution of guaranteed human rights in the proceedings, is probably only an additional reference by Klemenčič to the Minister of Justice. This also raises the question of why the different approach to ministers of the same government has been penalised and the violations of Minister Klemenčič have not been penalised. It's like the Prime Minister couldn't count the pros and cons. After what we're seeing, Minister Weber of that time was cleared because he's probably under-infringemented. By the way, if I mention that at the next meeting of the National Assembly, half of the agenda items will be linked to the electoral laws proposed by the Mauritian Coalition due to the previous failed judicial and political proceedings against Janez Janša, this tells us all about the priorities of this government and this coalition. While governments and coalitions elsewhere are looking for solutions and measures to ensure competitive advantages for their citizens and their economies, improve the standard of citizens and more, the judiciary and the executive branch and the parliamentary majority are working to prevent the election and election of one citizen in the next parliamentary elections. At the same time, the violator of the Constitution and the laws, the Minister of Justice, declares that, because of one official in the judiciary who has made serious professional mistakes in his work, he will not propose a resolution or a change of laws. This does not improve legal and ethical standards. It is also not possible to expect greater responsibilities of officials and higher quality of functioning of the rule of law institutions. By continuing such a practice, we will never approach justice, justice, equality, equality before the law and beyond, but other methods and means that have absolutely nothing to do with democracy will continue to be allowed. The involvement of the President of the Government of Dr Cerar in the decisions of the Constitutional and Supreme Court, as well as in the findings of the KPK and other institutions, is noticeable and eloquent. The silence of the body, the silence of the institution can only mean agreeing with the views of its Minister Klemenčič, which means that nothing will actually be done. That the President of the Government departs from ethical criteria and standards, justice and the rule of law, to tolerate double criteria, one that are applicable to the privileged, and the other that apply to all others — such conduct is likely to be expected by the President of the Government also from the two candidates that the coalition is expected to confirm for ministers today. Even if candidates have different views, if they advocate different approaches and values, they will probably not be able to implement them in the government in their political and professional work and fall into the coalition swamps of double criteria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u9	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr. Franc Jurša has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u10	President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the Prime Minister, the Council of Ministers! Dear colleagues, a nice greeting to you too! Today we have a candidate for Minister of Defence, our parliamentary colleague, Andreja Katič, and a candidate for Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič. Both candidates successfully presented themselves to us at the meetings of the home work bodies. Their work so far, experience and good preparation for hearing show that they will meet the challenge ahead. Candidates take over very important and difficult resources, so we hope that they will bite on sour apples as quickly as possible, with the Defence Act and the Higher Education Act in mind. It is generally known that in the Democratic Party of Slovenian pensioners we are great advocates of all public education, i.e. also public education, and we are pleased that the candidate Dr. Makovec Brenčič has been identified as a proponent of public, transparently financed, in particular accessible and quality public education. This is certainly an area where we will be looking very hard at ministers, even in the light of all the anomalies that have taken place in recent years. We will also pay attention to the implementation of the lifelong learning strategy, which is also one of the fundamental principles of European Union policy. The Europe 2020 strategy is one of the key sources of smart growth. In the field of lifelong learning, especially in organisational and financial terms, there are many things that could be done in Slovenia. Here I would like to highlight the transfer of knowledge and the overcoming of differences between generations. Intergenerational cooperation is the key to a modern, successful and tolerant society. Similarly, in the Group of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons, we would like to see that learning relieves the mass of data, since today young people are able to obtain information through many different channels. Therefore, more attention should be paid to evaluating different information and thinking about a particular problem. Learning in mind in the world of information technology is no longer meaningful. Science must serve man as an individual and society as a whole in all respects. Each country must take care of its progress and thus contribute to progress on a global scale, so it is crucial for us to increase investment in science and development. In the field of science and research, there have been long warnings of the poor uptake of European funds and the departure of our young researchers abroad. All of this is due to financial undernutrition and the precarious status of researchers. For this reason, in our Group of Members, we believe that it is essential to act quickly and also with due consideration in this area, so that we finally get a well-established strategy in our country for the development of science and research and for the integration of the latter with the economic sector itself. Speaking of economics, let me add another belief from the Desus Group, which, as we know from your presentation on the working body, is also close to you, a respected candidate. In designing educational programmes, dialogue between the economic and non-economic sectors and the education system on the other hand is essential. We are still facing high structural unemployment of young people, who tend to engage in high school at the end of primary school and continue to study, social studies, where jobs are lacking. At the same time, the economy is facing shortages of staff in certain professions, which our companies urgently need, despite the fact that employment is ensured because demand for certain professions exceeds supply and there is no interest in education on certain programmes. It is therefore necessary to plan such content of education programmes and to ensure such quality of learning outcomes and competences that students are employed at the end of secondary schooling. In our parliamentary group, we believe that employers who practice practical work training contribute a great deal of added value to the education system. They have a major impact on the further development of young people and their successful careers and consequently on their lives. Connecting education and practical training to work is one of the most important areas in which young people are brought into the work process and their employment. I therefore welcome your positive view of the development and enforcement of apprenticeships and dual system in both vocational and higher education. If I go back to the Defense Department, I'll see candidate Andrei Katič. As you mentioned at the outset, I hope that we will be able to unify and amend the Defence Act – that is, we need 60 votes here – which is not in step with time and makes the work of the Slovenian Army more difficult. I am pleased that the candidate for Minister is aware of these issues and is already predicting a revision of the legislation. The financing of the defence system should also be regulated as the share of funding is steadily falling. The funds for wages, investments and maintenance shall also be shared as appropriate. Now, let's say 80% of defense funds are spent on wages. Here the issue opens at the expense of better equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces, or to go to a reduction in the number of soldiers and what to do with the number of very strong general staff and the civilian work of the Ministry. In this respect, we are particularly interested in how the relations between officers, officers and soldiers of the Slovenian Army will be regulated. In the Desus Group, we will also pay attention to the issue of the status of soldiers after 45 years of age. Appropriate systemic solutions will need to be found with regard to the retraining of soldiers and the transition to other jobs within the public sector, and even better if we can do so in the economy. We are also concerned about the extremely low military salaries and, as a result, the social hardships of soldiers and defence workers. Well, there's not gonna be a shortage of jobs for future ministers. In summary, in the Group of Members, both candidates are fully supported and we wish them as successful a ministry as possible. Have a good trip!
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u11	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Germany.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u12	Dear President, well-respected Council of Ministers, dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues! We are ahead of the decision on two candidates for ministerial office. At the beginning of the mandate, the leadership of the Defence Department was taken with great responsibility. Regrettably, at times, it seems entirely unfair that this difficult area, in which there have been few problems in the light of the tight financial situation for years, has been the subject of various political crosses, which do not have much in common with the responsibility to solve these problems. The management of this ministry is thus sometimes unfairly given an indication of another of those areas where the coalition will complete its quotas instead of biting into an acid apple and facing the acute problems of this difficult resort. As it is said, at the beginning of the mandate, the Social Democrats accepted this responsibility to face the substantive and less political challenges facing the management of this ministry. I believe that candidate Andreja Katič, who comes from our species, from the species of Social Democrats, by her references and presentation to the mother's committee, has put an end to any doubts and has shown that she has a vision for the challenges of this department. Her work experience, which has consistently required new knowledge and the ability to integrate these into integrated solutions, has been accompanied by Andreja Katič, together with her personality traits, in a relatively short time, by her work in Parliament. As a Member and Vice-President of the National Assembly, she has never doubted that her busy work and ability to face the difficult issues of the building, which they mark as a person who not only knows that she can and wants but will solve the difficult tasks ahead. There's not a lot of them. The human resources support of the Slovenian Armed Forces, the financial obstacles to meeting the defence expenditure incurred by Slovenia's involvement in the wider association, the need to build up legal regulations in the field of defence, the drafting of a resolution on the national programme of protection against natural and other disasters – this is just a few of the content that will require broader political support in addition to the Ministry of Defence. On these issues, however, it is not possible to ignore the increasingly difficult security situation of the international public, which the Ministry is incorporating into complex cooperation processes, preparedness, upgrades on many issues along with other areas of government action. This is not to be left out of the field of foreign policy as well as of all other sources. The very connectivity and a wide range of knowledge of the many areas that marked the candidate in her work are the elements that we see as crucial in linking the Ministry's work with the wider international community. There is also a proposal for the Minister for Education, Science and Sport. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that it is not irrelevant who is the first man of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. But more than that, what a vision on the most important and at the same time the most fragile subsystems of society will now be realized by the candidate Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič. We can understand from its career so far that it has broad knowledge in particular in the scientific and research field. However, the ministerial function also requires the political skills that the candidate will have to acquire soon after she takes office, since there is no time for her to take over, in particular, this department. Human resources slips in recent months have led to delays in the adoption of some of the key acts necessary to achieve the ideal of becoming a knowledge society. Social Democrats are advocates of quality and universal public education. That is why we express our support for those candidates who follow this concept and as long as they are also implementing this concept in the ministerial team. As the duty of society, we recognize the requirement to enable everyone, regardless of family or social circumstances, to develop the potentials they carry. In doing so, the Social Democrats are constantly drawing attention to the situation of the most vulnerable group, children with special needs. We believe that the objectives mentioned above can only be achieved in an inclusive, accessible and quality public education system. We expect clear answers from candidate Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič in relation to the situation between public and private by upgrading them into clear and decisive measures to strengthen the quality of public school. One way to achieve this is to support the proposal to supplement Article 57 of the Constitution, which the Social Democrats and I, together with the thinkers, have put forward in favour of maintaining quality and accessible primary education to the National Assembly. For this reason, we expect the candidate to stand firm against all attempts to leave primary education to the selected ideological, political or economic elites. It is also necessary to proceed as soon as possible with the preparation of a proposal for a new law on higher education. The candidates' past experience in this area inspires us with confidence that it will continue with the concept created by the ministry of Dr. Jerne Pikal. As the higher education public has reported in recent days, there is no time for self-promotion in this area. Your Honor! Today is not just a chance to complete the current human resources gap of this government. It is a matter of substantive issues and the challenges of the two pillars on which the candidates have successfully presented their views to the parental committees. If anything, we must admit that it is the presentation of both candidates that has reinforced the conviction that they have knowledge and a vision of how to deal with these challenges. Therefore, today is not a time of political undermine, but a well-deserved constructive journey that will give candidates the first opportunity to apply all the content that is needed for the creative and optimal functioning of the two pillars. The Social Democrats will be so unanimously supported by both candidates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u13	The word is given by the Group of the United Left for her by Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u14	President, thank you for your word. Comrades and comrades! The government formula is clear: we get two new ministers but at the same time more old ones. The candidate for Minister of Education Maja Makovec Brenčič is the third in line. According to her words and references, neoliberal doctrine will be injected into education and science at even higher doses. Ms Andrej Katič, Minister of Defence, made it clear that she would continue with the current misdirection of the Slovenian Army. We will not support any of the candidates in the United Left because we cannot support the direction of the Government of Mir Cerar. From the previous work and statements of Maja Makovec Brenčič, its focus is on linking higher education with the economy. This means that knowledge becomes mild and makes sense only if it brings profits. The penetration of market logic into education is largely disguised, it involves the transfer of knowledge, the search for synergies, the processing and circulation of knowledge, career incubators and other neoliberal phrases that Makovec Brenčič so skillfully utters. A year and a half ago when commenting on the ZVIS-1 proposal, the applicant made it clear that colleges must be able to obtain funds from other sources in the form of grants and market activities in addition to state funding. She also spoke at the hearing about the triangle science-education-economy as a 'amoebic structure that must work as closely as possible'. As a former representative of the NAKVIS Council, the candidate stressed quality assurance, although without tangible measures. One of the key words in which she described her view of the education system was flexibility. This, of course, will involve itself as a result of government work, especially since Prime Minister Cerar said a few days ago at the leniency consultation that we need more flexibility in the labour market. The triangle science – education – economy and flexibility are very clear – that education should be adapted to the interests of capital, that higher education should produce people who are as reptiles as far as possible as forced espionage, part-time workers, as eternal searchers working without social security, without their own roof and family creation, without the possibility of controlling their own destiny. But what we can be even more concerned about is her answer to a human resources question that is closely linked to austerity cuts. This is particularly true for those brought by the infamous ZUJF of the other Yangtze governments, which are also bitterly pursued by the current government with Finance Minister Mramor at the head. Future Minister Makovec Brenčič replied that we do not actually have a human resources problem, because school employees are protected by standards and standards and social agreements. It couldn't have been any longer than the truth. In particular, in higher education, the process of prophylacticism is extremely acute, as the younger perspective is, above all, condemned to honorary and authorship contracts and temporary employment. This has to do with the decline in the quality of public higher education that we are witnessing to. As part of the privileged academic elite, which is finally witnessed by the extensive fees received in addition to the regular salary, Maja Makovec Brenčič does not view this situation as problematic. At the hearing, however, we learned that, as Minister, she would advocate that funding should follow the national higher education programme and that the share of the budget for higher education would increase to 2% of gross domestic product by 2020. Since co-financing is crucial, not the only problem with higher education, we will certainly take the future minister's word for it. Sufficient funding would allow higher education reforms that do not go towards commercialisation, but would provide quality, accessible public education for all. The role of the future minister may in many ways be crucial to the fate of our education. In recent years, we have been monitoring a sharp decline in the quality of public education while strengthening private interests. Saving measures from day to day worsen the situation and prevent the exit from this negative spiral. Despite economic recovery, despite the positive prospects, the Government continues to step up and tighten its commitment to the belt. A key response to this situation is a clear gap between public and private education. Budget resources should be allocated to public education, to a sufficient extent, but not to the detriment of private individuals, which reduces already too low public education resources. Only a quality public school can provide quality education that is independent of the property and social status of children and adolescents. At the same time, negative trends in education have an impact on our future, as we are losing our development potential and we are losing our wood into underdevelopment. This is the essence of the overall direction of the Cerara government – privatisation, austerity measures, increased competitiveness at the price of workers' rights and at the expense of public services. In such an economy and in such a country, the school system does not really take a crucial place. The selection of new ministers for education, education and sport is in line with the neoliberal principles governing this government. Similarly, we can argue in the proposal for a Minister of Defence. The main expectation for Andrea Katič is that she will maintain the status quo. The result of the development of the Slovenian Army after 2003 when the professionalisation began and after entering NATO in 2004 is that our armed forces are unable to defend the state territory. The government and the coalition agreement do not provide for any changes that would be necessary to remedy this situation. The defence minister's candidate was proposed to implement the government's programme. As it is said, the main causes of the crisis in our defence system are the almost complete professionalisation of the Slovenian Army after 2003 and the submission to NATO's needs. Even if we leave a moral reservation to NATO because of its neo-imperialist role, it is clear that the division of work in NATO makes the Slovenian Army suitable for military-order operations abroad. Therefore, for example, in adopting the balance sheet, such capacities had an absolute advantage. The Minister's candidate has made it clear that there will be no change in priorities in this area. Moreover, it announced an increase in the capacity of the Slovenian Armed Forces to operate within NATO, a concrete formation of a battalion group that will grow into a mechanised battalion group with new patries. These capacities will make very little contribution to the country's defence capacity, but they will be very expensive, which should also be considered for those who do not have moral reservations to NATO, and unfortunately this is not the case. The second cause of the crisis is reckless, we can say the populist professionalisation of the Slovenian Army. The fact is that Slovenia no longer has any mention of a valuable military reserve. According to the latest data, we have 7,000 138 members of the permanent staff and a thousand 72 reservists. According to the candidate, the number of reservists will decrease to 818 by the end of the year due to the termination of contracts. So the ratio between professionals and reservists will increase to almost 7 to 1. This relationship is catastrophic for two reasons. The first reason is public finances. A contractual reserve soldier receives approximately EUR 2 000 155 net per year. So the expenditure for one reserve is around EUR 2 000 500 per year and for one professional at least EUR 13 000. That is why this wage system consumes more than 200 million, yet it cannot guarantee the defence of state territory and nevertheless cannot guarantee a decent payment and a dignified survival for its members. The candidate said that the ratio of expenditure on salaries, running costs and investments is 81 to 17 to 2. It is therefore necessary to decide whether professional soldiers without appropriate equipment and weapons or adequately armed and equipped reserves. Candidate Katič predicts that within her mandate, the Slovenian Armed Forces will number 7,000 600 professionals and a thousand 500 contractual reserves. This is still five professionals per reserve and 500 professionals more than today. The Minister's candidate did not explain where she would take the funds for wages and for investments in weapons and equipment without which Slovenia would not provide the battalion group. The future minister is probably silent about this because the answer is clear: it will have to be taken in other areas — scholarships, pensions, health care and education. So it requires a fiscal rule that this government and coalition are unconditionally forcing. The full professionalisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces is also disputed for social reasons. A professional soldier is the only public servant who can't wait to retire in his profession. When he's 45, he goes on the road. If he manages to find his own employment, his employer gets a subsidy. That's all, no other guarantees. The candidate agrees that social security must be ensured for the soldiers of the Slovenian Armed Forces, but the solutions she presented to the Defence Committee are not sufficient. The government plans to reduce the number of public officials in all its documents. It is quite clear that there will be no public sector service for former soldiers. The advancement of ordinary soldiers into officers and officers is also not a solution. Today, 2.8 soldiers come to one officer, and only 1.6 soldiers come to one officer. The third option is early retirement, which costs enormously, while our pension system already has such a huge deficit and the government is already forecasting a new rise in retirement age on top of its reform programme. All these trends are called for radical change. In those days, when we celebrate the 70th anniversary of victory over fascism and collaboration, we were able to track the information that the Slovenian guerrilla forces had about 38 thousand members in 1944. Before professionalisation, Slovenia had nearly 70,000 people trained to defend the country and involved in the mobilisation plans. Today, the Slovenian Armed Forces, together with the contractual reserve, accounted for 8 000 276 members. The lesson of this story is that our defence system is built in contravention of historical tradition and the demonstrated self-defense capacity of the Slovenian population. Andreja Katič predicts that she will continue in this wrong direction. The Constitution states that security policy is based on a policy of peace and non-violence. If NATO were a defense liaison, it would have ended in 1991 when the Warsaw Pact was dissolved. In 1991, Western leaders promised that NATO would not spread, and look where we are today. He is then involved with one leg in the civil war in Ukraine. He supplies hundreds of millions of Euros of military equipment to the Ukrainian military, and US instructors train paramilitary units. Then, of course, there can be no excuse for all the errors of our defence system. In fact, all responsibility lies with the government and the coalition. At its last regular session, the President of the Government said that our health system was so committed that only the preparations for the reform would last for two years. Our health system has its problems, but it is not imported, it has not evolved in the wrong direction, and it still performs its tasks well in the vast majority of cases. I think our defense system has evolved in the wrong direction and that in extreme force it would not be able to perform its constitutional function. If the government and the candidate for the minister were aware of this, we could fix it. Just to illustrate. Between 2004 and 2014, the Slovenian Army left 3 000 434 members. This is about half of the permanent composition, which means that within 10 to 15 years we could turn the Slovenian Army from a dear professional army that, upon recognition of its own doctrine, cannot defend the state territory into an army based on a reserve. Such a formula works, for example, in Switzerland, Norway and Austria, and is based on the self-defense capacity of the population, which is completely ignored by us. In the United Left, we will not support any of the candidates for ministerial posts. From their presentations and work so far, it is clear that they have been chosen to continue with their current orientations in their areas or even sharpen them. However, these government policies are flawed, leading us to foreign dependence, increasing social inequality, and impeling us into indevelopment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u15	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Ludmila Novak, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u16	President, thank you for your word. Honourable President of the Government, ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and They will run two resources that are extremely important to the country. The security of a country or of its citizens allows us to live in peace and to carry out our respective work and tasks. Everything changes at the moment if our security is threatened by terrorism or war. In view of the increase in global and European crisis hotspots, we must also be constantly prepared. Education is also a kind of weapon, for we say that someone is well or poorly armed with knowledge and experience. Although the Minister is a political function, we expect certain knowledge or at least experience in some area from the candidate or candidate. With the Minister of Education candidate, it is obvious that she has a lot of experience in management functions, as well as a lot of knowledge in the field of education and research, and that is what we are missing from the Defence Minister's candidate. In Slovenia we find that although we have a well-organized education, we adapt our teachers, teachers, teachers and professors, and too little or too slow learning plans, textbooks and programmes to the needs of time. We therefore expect the new Minister to propose and implement systemic solutions in the area of higher education and science and to propose an appropriate law for these two areas as soon as possible. The economy expects this knowledge of armed youth who will be able to carry out increasingly challenging tasks. We also expect the introduction of a dual system in the field of vocational education, since theoretical knowledge is less beneficial if we do not know how to translate it into practice. Above all, it is important that we educate for the professions that have the future and need the economy and society. We also expect the Minister to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision on the 100 % funding of a publicly valid primary school programme implemented by private schools. These schools are also attended by the children of our citizens and taxpayers, and they are also taught by our teachers, our citizens. The most important must be the quality of education and also the choice. We also expect that the coalition will no longer interfere with the adoption of a decision on the University of Ljubljana on the implementation of teaching programmes at the Theological Faculty, which are already under way. Since we have already postponed the decision on the committee twice, there is a feeling that in some of the left parties we would like to return to the totalitarian times when the Theological Faculty was expelled from the University, even though it was among its founders. Madam candidate, I hope that you will not give up on democracy and such aspirations. Ms Andreja Katič, candidate for Minister of Defence, presented to the Defence Committee the current situation in the Slovenian defence system, which is mainly affected by the lack of funds. Her performance before the committee was rhetorically good, but in her presentation she described the situation in the first place and spoke very little about the programming guidelines. We expect more substantive guidance and visions from the candidate for the minister to improve the situation in the Slovenian defence system. Andreja Katič comes to the defense department politically, as the mag said. Jewish, therefore, we did not have high expectations in the substantive field. However, we were particularly disturbed by the following two things, which prevent the candidate from counting on our support. Firstly, she did not clearly distance herself from the actions of her predecessor, Janko Webra, regarding the study of the privatisation of Telekom by the military intelligence service. Despite the fact that more than two thirds of the Members assessed that the Minister had acted unlawfully, the candidate still defended him at the hearing. We consider it good for her, at least, to accept the resignation of the director of the Military Intelligence Service of Goraz Rednak. Secondly, it did not make a clear commitment to severely restrict visits by Russian generals to Slovenian barracks during the sanctions against Russia. In Novi Slovenija, we find it unacceptable that at a time when Russian President Putin signs the decrees that change the military doctrine of NATO and mark it an enemy, the generals of the Russian army in Slovenia visit the Slovenian Army military barracks, which is part of NATO. Your Honor! Since we cannot decide on each candidate individually, but in the package for both of us at the same time, we will vote against it. Members of New Slovenia always work for the good of people, so we will support their good proposals. We also expect openness for our initiatives and proposals.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u17	The word is given by the Alliance's Group, for her mag. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Before the Members and Members of the National Assembly today are the names of two candidates wanted by Prime Minister Miro Cerar in his ministerial team. The proposal for a new Minister of Education, Science and Sport has been decided for the third time in this mandate. Despite the fact that we are half jokingly saying that we hope that the third will be happy, the situation is far from ridiculous. For several months, the Ministry has not had leadership with full powers to deal solely with this area, and the portfolio is ahead of serious challenges, and this is a major problem. It is high time that the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport regains the Minister or Minister, who will give all her attention to these areas of work. As with the whole government, individual ministries are seen as having to stop dealing only with human resources issues, but rather to put important substantive issues at the forefront. In the field of education, this is certainly the issue of financing private and public education, dealing with children with special needs, solving problems in the field of teaching policy, linking education with the economy and paying professors who unfortunately took away the original Minister of Education. Ms Maja Makovec Brenčič presented her views on these issues at the Committee hearing, but there are still many challenges, particularly in the area of preschool, primary and secondary education, where we believe she should present her views more deeply. We understand that she is an expert in higher education, so we can only hope that she will listen to experts for the rest of the fields and lead the department with the same determination in all areas. Ms Andreja Katič, candidate for Minister of Defence, is not a political stranger, unlike the candidate for Minister of Education, Science and Sport. It comes from the Member States and is even Vice-President of the National Assembly. We are therefore pleased in the Alliance that the President of the Government has decided to accept her candidacy, because we have had the opportunity to meet her as a very prudent and diligent politician. Many have made it clear to her that she lacks expertise in this area and is not a member of the Parliamentary Defence Committee. I hope they have changed their minds after presenting themselves on a competent working body. Both candidates, including Mrs Katič, have successfully passed the presentation last week, and therefore they are promised reliable support. This time, it appears, the President of the Government has made the right choice. Mrs Katič has prepared a very good analysis of the situation in the defence sector and has given appropriate answers to a number of questions. In one reply, she also pointed out that the amendment of the Defence Act is one of the most important objectives of her ministry, which we are pleased to see. Given the need for a two-thirds majority to adopt this law, the Minister is expected to coordinate intensively with the National Assembly and we propose that she prepare a starting point for a thorough reform of the law and that the final text will be decided on the basis of the support expressed. There is a lot of work and challenges for both ministers that will have an important impact on our country and its leadership in the coming months. Since we do not want to judge in advance, before we see their work, how they will do it, we will abstain from voting. However, we should certainly commend the fact that, according to the new Prime Minister Cerar's Government, half of the women will be women, especially if it is not a case, but rather the planned recruitment of capable women's representatives into important decision-making positions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u19	The word is given by the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group, Dr. László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear representatives and members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! In opening, let me say that in our Group of Members, we are committed to the Government being adequately complemented by competent candidates or candidates, so that its work can be carried out in a smooth manner. With regard to the candidate for Minister of Defence, our position will be very brief. We expect the new Minister to focus all her energy and knowledge on the stable functioning of the Slovenian Armed Forces, both at home and on various missions within the framework of NATO and other international cooperation. We hope that, in the field of the functioning of the intelligence bodies, it will have the right, correct and, above all, a legally sound approach and will advocate the preservation of the prestige of the Slovenian Armed Forces in our society. We also wish that natural disasters would cover us more than they have in the past months or years, but in the area of adequate preparedness, despite the difficult financial situation and, unfortunately, the continued reduction of money for the so-called military budget, the new Minister will also have to make great efforts. The competent party and the coalition have decided to propose to the candidate our current colleague, who has been very correct as a Member, and therefore will receive our support. As I have already pointed out in my similar position a good month ago, the Minister or Minister for Education, Science and Sport is one of the most responsible tasks of the executive branch. The competences of this department relate to very difficult content in the area of the entire vertical educational system, from kindergarten to secondary education and higher education, and to scientific and research activities and sports. There is no doubt that in the case of the appointment of the Minister or the Minister of this difficult department, it is an extremely responsible task. We hope and anticipate that Mr Prime Minister has also made a very thorough assessment of the candidate. Contrary to the proposal from a few weeks ago, in the case of the current candidate, we can point out that she is a recognised expert in one of the areas falling within the competence of the so-called school ministry. On the basis of her statements and her replies at the committee meeting, I have a personal opinion and should express myself in a similar illustrative manner to that of the committee that the candidate Mrs Makovec Brenčič does not step into oversized shoes. At the so-called hearing, the candidate highlighted some of the priorities that we believe are also true. It advocated the continuity of upgrading the primary and secondary education system. In particular, it highlighted the need to adopt a law on higher education, and its professional competences will certainly be of great benefit to it. This nut will be hard, as it has stressed, as it is probably the most aware of the diversity and complexity of the content mentioned, as well as quite different views of stakeholders on possible systemic solutions. The issue of funding for higher education and research activities is also a major concern where the new Minister awaits difficult coordination. It is encouraging that the candidate intends to accelerate cooperation between the economy and universities or scientific research activities, which will require great effort. It will probably not be easier to find solutions in the field of optimisation of standards and standards in primary and secondary education. Even a few months ago, disclosures of irregularities regarding the enormous fees and other earnings of individuals in the shortest possible time call for a clear position, decisions and perhaps systemic solutions by the future minister. Let me also touch the areas of education in areas where indigenous national communities live. The systems or models that have been established in the past decades with the Hungarian and Italian national communities are different. Both models have many specific areas and both require thorough system upgrades. It should also be pointed out today that these systems are only partially sufficient for the functions of maintaining or developing the Italian and Hungarian national communities. To a lesser extent, it has already joined the system-wide content upgrade of both systems, with the Ministry responsible for supporting us. Both models need continuous substantive refinement and adaptation to increasingly difficult demographic conditions and methodological-didactic challenges. In both communities, I could list a number of substantive areas where changes and additional efforts are urgently needed. Today I only mention what is common and relates to major problems in continuing systemic education of teaching staff. This condition has not been consistently ensured in the past, but in recent times we have seen even greater gaps that require as quickly as possible professional and systemic solutions. Learning terminology in all professional subjects in the mother tongue is a key condition for maintaining and developing your own language. Open issues also often arise in the field of investment, the resolution of non-usable real estates and could also be listed. So, the candidate for the Minister of Education, Science and Sport has shown, in my opinion, a high level of awareness of the issue and the necessary sensibility and promised continuity in the area of systematic modeling and resolution of open issues. Our decision to support her was decisive. Both future ministers also wish us many successful and professionally well-qualified decisions, as well as happiness and satisfaction in their difficult work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u21	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, for her by Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u22	Dear President, dear colleagues and distinguished ministerial council! In its operation, the State has performed many tasks and functions, for which, from the mid-17th century until the French Revolution, it has acquired fundamental powers and also the authority of a society for and in which it operates. The State apparatus in the legislative, executive and judicial branches of government has expanded from this period to these days almost to inconclusive dimensions, both in terms of the content and areas covered by the State by its operation and in terms of the powers it acquires in relation to society. Its fundamental mission to serve the people who live in the country through our dedicated and responsible activities, while the representatives of the individual branches of power, has remained unchanged since its creation. As important and necessary for people as the country with its parts is, democratically, living people are justified in its eyes, depending on the work we carry out every time, and we do not do it for the present and future good of the community. This is certainly not and must not depend on the individual’s individual wishes and expectations or on the selected interest networks. The military-defence function and the competence of the state apparatus was not only the first in a series of state tasks, but even the one that in 1648 encouraged the need to create a state in the form we know to this day. In general, the defence-security tasks of all these centuries have not changed significantly. From the country, today primarily the Ministry of Defence, its services in the composition, especially intelligence, military police, the Parliamentary Defence Committee and the Committee on Security and Intelligence are expected to protect the state and its citizens from possible military threats from the external environment. Similarly, one of the constitutional functions of each state apparatus also assumes a relationship to knowledge. Education is the key to development and civilisational progress. The decision for him is a matter and a responsibility for each individual, and it is the responsibility of the State to ensure conditions for its accessibility, thereby also demonstrating its commitment to the knowledge of a targeted advanced society. In the SMC Group, we believe that putting education at the heart of the country's development policy is essential for the performance of society as a whole. That is why we understand the whole area of education and education, higher education, research and development as well as sports as basic building blocks for both society and for the individual, and especially for countries that, through the care of knowledge, most clearly express their attitude towards the priority content of further civil and intellectual development, as well as a healthy spirit in a healthy body. At today's extraordinary meeting, we are completing the ministerial departments of both of our country's vital areas. In the context of the presentations of the two candidates on the home work bodies, we were able to make sure of the two essential elements that must be borne by the person who, on behalf of his people, will carry out this responsible national task. The first is a substantively comprehensive knowledge of the field of work and the second is the personal authority for the substantive performance of these tasks. The substantive knowledge of the field of work is based on knowledge, on the ability of thought-out reflections, assessments and decisions, responsible identification and problem-solving, the introduction of changes, the implementation of a vision for future development of areas that have often been neglected in our case in past mandates, some also politically abused for client needs. That is why the ability to learn from the past also means the ability to learn from the past, for the needs of people who are imperfect, reckless, bad solutions, decisions and practices. Instead of tracking and responding to the substantive challenges of the future, they preferred to find preferred solutions for their own promotion and benefits. This time has to pass. The experience of our country's current operation, in particular the two ministries in which we appoint new ministers today, has also shown that, for good governance, the appropriate personality attitude, professional, fair, democratic, responsible, taken, patient, patient and work-related, taking responsibility for the work done and also unmade, engaging in cooperation, seeking compromises, allowing and patient conduct of broad dialogue, and in particular finding ways that at any time and in any situation ensure stable, predictable and transparent management of the source. In the SMC Group, we believe that both candidates are overcoming all the knowledge, skills and values that are required by the country for responsible work on knowledge supported, creative, innovative, pervasive, as well as safe citizens and citizens. We will therefore unanimously support the proposal of the President of the Government for their appointment. Already in this place, both of us, now candidates for ministers, as well as the full government, want all the good in the further responsible performance of their and also our joint work for the better tomorrow of our people and of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u23	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr Primož Hainz has the floor to prepare the mags. Matthew Tonin, Mr Ivan Škodnik and Mr Andrej Chuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u24	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are discussing two ministerial proposals, two colleagues or two ladies, if I may say so, Mrs Andrejo Katič and Dr Majo Makovec Brenčič. Mrs Andreja Katič is my colleague, Vice-President of the National Assembly. I think in this bad year, as long as we've been in the National Assembly, she's proved to be eloquent, quick to think. She also decides quickly, and I think such a function is quite appropriate for her. As to the question of experience or failure, however, it must be said that a person has a thorough legal knowledge. And such a person can also use his knowledge in other areas, not only strictly on the one he has learned, because he is a generally educated lady. I also had no feeling at the meetings of the National Assembly that I would ever misinterpret the political functioning of the National Assembly, which would be one of the important characteristics of the so-called political experience, so I think that the Barca of the Ministry of Defence will lead well. What I'm thinking about on the question of appointments for ministers or ministers is as follows. I wouldn't mention the whole spectrum, but I have to mention one. Indeed, the problem is that no war in history has begun as planned in the general headquarters of one, another or third army. That's why I think we left this tradition of Territorial Defence too quickly, not to say the tradition of national liberation fighting, when everyone could be a soldier of some kind, so everyone could put a bullet in a rifle, which was extremely important. That's why I'm asking the question of the relationship between the professional army and the soldiers on the ground that would fill this bond or continue this continuity of the Territorial Defence. But it's not up to the Minister, it's global social thinking, it's something that the National Assembly should be dealing with. I hope that the National Assembly will deal with this issue soon in the future or in the future for sure. As for the Minister, I think she'll be good and I fully support her. Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič, second candidate, for education, science and sport. The area is extremely large, but we have to admit. Here are a number of problems that some in the introductions have already started, from education, ideology, economic connections and so on. I would also mention only two problems here in this area, because I will not speak of the lady myself, because I think she had a good presentation, which proved her knowledge of the problem and also quite a lot of experience. One long - term issue that has plagued me all the time is the issue of the burden of learning or, rather, the burden of children. How do you make bags easier to make textbooks shorter? In fact, today's technology, computer science, television, children get a lot of data. It is important that in school all this information is put into a system and that a teacher or a professor teach him the philosophy of the subject, the way he thinks about where he will get the information. Of course, there is a tremendous amount of information. I think we could turn the matter from fat bags to the philosophy of an individual subject, and here I think we could do a lot. Of course, this thought is of a long - term nature and cannot be made overnight. If I'm still going to the sports field, it'd be a little weird to avoid it myself. I'm sorry the kids are getting less and less moving. It's the family's fault, it's the country's fault or not to say school, and it's the fault that in a lot of environments, like urban environments, children simply don't have the opportunity to come to the yard because there's no playground to move around. But above all, today’s computer story is one that prevents parents and children from moving more. I stress that this is mainly a problem in children. The second problem is the ultimate sport. But I will not talk about money in high-level sports, which is getting smaller and smaller, but I am warning you about the use of illicit drugs. In fact, we're at some stage where, in order for someone to succeed, they do everything they can, and so they're using the forbidden nutrients, if I say so, under the company, that they're nutritional supplements. They are one, and one is not, and the industry behind them is interested, and they are not interested in anything at all. But the fact is that at some stage this supplement or, directly, drugs help the athlete with short-term success, but they are extremely unhealthy. When they get such young athletes – they are all 18 years old because it is a top sport and it is a bit later – they are responsible because they are adults. But what about those who advised them to take it? These are famous pharmacologists who are full of newspapers and are prominent people in our society, remember. And they raise their hand and they say I'm just counseling. These are, excuse me, dealers in our society. I think that we should also think about this problem in this sector, so in this part of the ministry responsible for sport, about what to do, about what to do, because the problem escalates, because on the way to success, a lot of people do what is not possible, but they do not realize that it is extremely harmful in the long run. Let me finish. I support both candidates, Mrs Andrejo Katič and Dr Majo Makovec Brenčič in their new functions and wish them a successful work in their departments and a successful work as an integral part of the government of Dr Mir Cerar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u25	The word has magic. Matthew Tonin. Mrs Ivan Škodnik, Andrej Chuš and Benedict Kopmajer will prepare themselves.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u26	Dear colleagues, have a good day! Especially a beautiful day for a candidate and a candidate who is not in the hall. In my debate, I will focus mainly on defence matters or on the candidate for the Minister of Defence. Security is an important good, a key good. As long as we have it, we don't realize it, it's something like the air we breathe. When security is gone, the whole country falls down, the whole operation of society falls. If there is no security, there is no service, there is no normal functioning of civil society. In Slovenia, security is self-evident, mainly for three reasons. In recent years we have not had major terrorist incidents, thank God for the major terrorist attack in Slovenia. We do not feel threatened by neighbors to be threatened by any kind of war on the part of neighbouring countries, and also, thank God, we did not have fallen soldiers on missions. I think we're rare, if not the only country that hasn't had fatalities in our military structures on missions. That is why we are also acting accordingly with regard to the defence budget. The defence budget has practically halved in recent years, and it is clear that we can no longer pretend by half of the budget that everything is the same and that our defence-security readiness is identical as it once was when the budget was twice as high. The reduction in the defence budget has certainly reduced the readiness of our defence and security forces, and has certainly reduced the satisfaction of members of the Slovenian Army. It all speeds up the conflict. Being Minister of Defence, as history and past practice have shown, is a relatively dangerous service. Few have completed this mandate from start to finish. There were quite a number of such ministers who left or were dismissed in the middle of the mandate. This is certainly due to the fact that it is an extremely large and extremely demanding resort — a resort where various military interests are intertwined as well as very different political interests. And in the road and in the conflict of all these forces, he can take away a number of ministers. Above all, it is important that we get a minister in this position who has good expertise and is also politically able to coordinate all these different roads well. Because otherwise, the Ministry is headed by a minister, not a ministry. All well, colleague Andrei Katič, but I have my doubts that colleague Katič will be able to manage this area effectively. I would like to be positively surprised because this will certainly be good for the state and for the defence department itself, but I have doubts and doubts that this will happen too. It may even be in the interest of some that the most experienced person does not come to this area, so that they can continue to do things their way, as they have done so far. But like I said, I believe that the future minister will learn quickly and will surprise us as well. As for some of the material things that I've missed very much in the presentation of the Minister. I must admit that, within 45 minutes of her availability, she well summed up the current situation in the Slovenian defence system, but she did not give any direction or presentation of a vision in which she wants to take it all together. Therefore, only a few of my proposals may help her solve some problems. One of these is certainly how, with all the problems we have in the country, to help the defence budget a little bit, to get some more in our defence budget. One of these options is joint military exercises with our NATO allies. Mrs Katič said that training of our soldiers is also suffering as a result of the reduction of the defence budget. If our soldiers are not well trained, then it is as if we did not have them, and therefore military training is one of the key issues in the system itself. The organisation of joint military exercises with NATO allies can be an important source of fulfillment or at least partial implementation of the defence budget. With the military exercises we organize with NATO allies, not only can our soldiers be trained in addition to our allies, but we can also charge the allies for these military exercises and thus get part of the funds in the budget. During your predecessor, colleague Katič, these processes have stopped somewhat, I believe for political reasons, and I want you to reopen the way for these joint military exercises with NATO allies. The other thing that bothers me is the attitude towards Russia. During the time of Janka Vebra, doors opened wide open to the Russian generals in the Slovenian military barracks. This seems inappropriate to me at this time, because the European Union and the other NATO allies are imposing sanctions against Russia, and it would be at least politically hygienic if I were very kind to very, very much restrict the visit of Russian generals to our barracks at that time. I don't think we're opening the door to the Russian generals in this way, because I think we're sort of taking the knife in the back of our allies. I would like to see the future Minister of Karseda severely restrict the presence of Russian generals in our barracks, at least until the situation in Ukraine and the Crimea is settled. Third substantive emphasis. It is essential that the future minister stabilises the military intelligence service, the ODS. It is now extremely politicized and broken. That's why she's ineffective. The replacement of the Director of Military Intelligence is just a first and urgent step. I hope that the future minister will not stop at this step and that, as colleagues on the other hand stress that she will leave the profession open, she will also do so in the case of military intelligence. As far as missions are concerned, at the hearing, we could only hear that the candidate for Minister is pleased with the work of our soldiers after Slovenian missions. I'm happy, too. I would also like to add to this that the Slovenian Armed Forces will strengthen our presence primarily on missions that are important for Slovenia in terms of security and economic cooperation. And Kosovo is definitely one of the regions where stability is also crucial for Slovenia and where the issue is important from the point of view of the whole country. I'm closing because my colleagues are saying that I'm not gonna spend all my time here, and I'm gonna make a dot here.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u27	Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor. Prepare Mr Andrej Chuš and Mr Benedict Kopmajer and Mr Mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Welcome, fellow Members and fellow Members, representatives of the Government and both candidates! Today, MEPs in the National Assembly will confirm two new ministers. Let me first stop with the Minister of Defence, Mrs Andreja Katič, whom I know very well as a Member of Parliament, as a very working and very good Vice-President of the National Assembly. That's why I'm gonna give her my voice today. But I'm going to take a little more time to be a candidate for the Minister of Education, because I'm also a member of the Education Committee. As I said, the second candidate for Minister is Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič, who I met on the Education Committee, where she introduced herself to us Members as the future Minister for Education, Science and Sport. I think she did very well in her presentation. If I mention anything about her work so far. Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič is a regular professor in the field of international business. Lecture at the Faculty of Economics of the University of Ljubljana, as well as at universities abroad, subjects of international business. For almost a quarter of a century, he has been working in education, which means he has quite a few experiences. It is also very important that she has worked in the economy for some time. True, it was a shorter time. He is a member of a type of Slovenian and international professional and scientific associations in the field of international business and marketing. It also transfers its knowledge to Slovenian internationally active companies, as it advises on internationalisation, development of marketing and marketing strategies, and could also list in this area, because it has done a lot of work or has done so far. Maybe something else about her vision, some important things. Its aim is very important to develop a comprehensive model of identification and quality assurance in the entire field of its work at the Ministry. In her presentation, the candidate stressed the stable, systemic and developmental financing of the entire vertical area. This is also a union representative, who was close to me, accepted very positively. The link between education, science and the economy was the focus that was felt on the one hand – I took it because somehow I also came from the economy, that it was very good because it had a point of view, and it would certainly have an important impact on its decisions. The candidate mentioned, inter alia, the dual education system at the presentation. She said that this was not a priority at the moment, as at the moment they would have put an additional burden on the economy. I'm going to explain this a little bit because I talked to her about this in particular. The point is that many times we speak and that the word duality is heard very well, and we think that this matter will solve everything, but we forget that the financing of the dual system, which is often compared to Austria, is completely different in Austria. If such a model were to be transferred to Slovenia, – recently, I would have met with craftsmen, the Chamber of Commerce, and you will be informed that it is not so long ago when it is said that everyone is supporting the dual system – at this point the economy is further burdened. During this official work after the meeting, I also discussed with her what the future minister thought about wood as material. I'm going to say I went a little bit to the other side, because there's a lot of building going on in schools. I believe that the future minister could, among other things, do much to promote material in construction. I must say that the Minister was impressed with the wood and said that this was a very good material and that it will have to be taken into account when it comes to fitting in. We know that many things will also be drained from European cohesion money in rebuilding buildings. That's what I mean by old objects. There are a lot of facilities – kindergartens, schools, gyms. It is also important that these materials, such as wood, should be taken into account in new educational developments, since we have plenty in Slovenia, but unfortunately we do not know how to use it. I will support Ms Majo Makovec Brenčič's candidate in the vote today, because I believe she has all the skills to work on this ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u29	Mr Andrej Cuz has the floor to prepare Mr Benedict Kopmajer, mag. Bojana Muršič and Mrs Andreja Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u30	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! At the beginning of my debate, I would like to say that, as a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, I have expected much more from the Government so far. It is in my interest that the Government is good, so I would be very happy if the Government were successful in its work. Unfortunately, the so-called new faces have brought the same scenario as ever. New cheeks, old disappointment. I cannot get rid of the feeling that, in my work in the National Assembly, we are working more than a coalition of Members and Members of the opposition. This is demonstrated by the number of legislative proposals addressed at the meetings of the National Assembly. I think we have a third meeting of the National Assembly in May, with the same number, if not more proposals from the opposition. Not to mention oral questions, written questions, where it seems to me that only three or four parties are working. Since then, we have heard, in particular, words that speak of analysis, study, the appointment of some expert commissions and the postponement of the adoption of solutions for a certain period. The most popular is the three-month period, here and there for half a year, which is all the government of Mir Cerar can do. The concrete proposals and reforms that would lead Slovenia forward are not, and I am deeply concerned about this as a citizen. We must begin to realize that no one will live better than moralization in this country. I was alone at the hearings of both candidates in the National Assembly. I am a member of the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth. In my previous term, I was also a member of the Defence Committee and I am monitoring the situation on the Defence Department. But first I'd touch the field of education. I believe that the candidate for a minister has shown some guidance in the area of higher education. I also welcome the fact that one of the priorities is the adoption of a new law on higher education, which we have amended or amended 24 times to date. In doing so, I hope that the Minister will also respect the principles of competitiveness and freedom of choice. I also welcome the promotion of more sports education in the educational sector and in primary schools until the study. With these solutions, I'm sure I'll press the "yes" button myself. However, I am concerned about the knowledge of sports and youth. For 13 years I have been training the Jew myself, I have also worked intensively with him, and I must say that the issue of Slovenian sport is very well known to me. Given the fact that the candidate for the minister did not know the sport and youth sector very well, I have a feeling that some of the fed resources will be even more nourished in the future. The youth sector has too little environment for its development. Young people, I think when I talk to them, they don't want candy and social support, but they want to have an environment where they can develop, build their future. Therefore, in my opinion, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Youth, which plays a key role in the preparation of youth policies and is involved in inter-departmental harmonisation of legislation, lacks support, both by the President of the Government and by all other members of the Government. Therefore, some action plans and strategies that listen to the needs of young people are not implemented or are just a letter on paper. Thus, we also have a national Youth Programme, which was adopted by the National Assembly almost unanimously in the previous term. At the meeting of the Education Committee, we have also decided that the Government shall report regularly to the Committee on what is the realisation, and from this we can all see that there is much more potential and that there is less work to be done in this area. I therefore rightly expect the new Minister to accelerate the implementation of this national youth programme. It is also worrying that the Youth Office, as the main funder of the youth sector in Slovenia, has excluded from the funding the youth councils of local communities. In Slovenia we have about 45 youth councils of local communities, with which this funding has enabled the payment, for example, of accounting services and balance-sheets to Apes and the financial office. So we're talking small amounts, about 300 euros. In doing so, I would like to point out that youth organisations and youth societies, particularly in rural areas, are driving development and also driving some social development in local communities. As a member of the eight congregations, many of whom are also small congregations, I work very well with them. I think we should listen more to the youth sector and youth societies. It is also worrisome that the Minister has failed to identify herself as senior officials in the field of higher education. We have some cases where individuals are squandering all Slovenes and Slovenes, how to live, moralizing us and, on the other hand, serving themselves after regular employment, I don't know if we're starting with the President of the Government, 350 000 euros, but talking about the retired minister, 600 000 euros. And now they tell others how to renounce certain rights, options. You have to have the same vats for everyone. However, the age structure of employees is particularly worrying in the area of higher education. The existing proposal or draft law on higher education foresees that regular professors will be protected as nomadic bears and, on the other hand, young assistants, assistants will be prevented from progressing or even becoming involved in pedagogical work. When we discuss sport in the National Assembly, there are many arguments or the main argument is that there is not enough funding for top sport. But I can tell you that's not the case. Only priorities are important – whether we will give 9 million euros for modified tenders, for example, for Stożice, or whether we will give these 9 million euros for top sports. There's no dilemma here. She was only a dilemma with former Minister Luksic, who decided to give 9 million euros for the Stożice. Today, this project is being investigated by the National Investigation Office, and it is right that these funds are being sought – well-founded suspicions are more than sufficient – and that these funds are intended for the ultimate sport. An invitation to tender for the sport activities of the National Sports Union, which should have been published in October last year, is not yet available. According to some of the information I have, this invitation to tender was not published until August this year. Therefore, national sports associations will have to implement an annual programme for this year for eight months per chalk. I don't know who's taking the money. Are they going to be athletes themselves? Are they going to be presidents of sports unions? Or they're just going to break down their program and they're going to say we're not going to go to this game, this coach is going to be fired, that department won't have that much practice anymore. If that's what we want, then I don't know what we're doing here or what I'm doing here. At my own hearing, I also asked a specific question as to what the opinion is until the opening of the gambling market. As you know, we have a monopoly in the field of gambling in Slovenia, which shows, according to all data, that it does not serve its purpose to introduce more competitiveness. I hope the Minister will take this approach as well. In doing so, I would also like to point out that there were several organized calls for sport, sports infrastructure such as Stožice, also the centre of Planica, the Cerar-Pegan-Petkovšek Gymnasium Centre, and could also be mentioned. The money went into the pockets of some people who took a strong advantage of it, but the Slovenian sport will continue to move on to meals. And it's gonna happen again the way it was last time. During the Olympic year, the top sports line will fall by 20%. In view of the fact that Mira Cerar's party won the elections mainly with some new integrity, new policy and high ethical standards, the Minister is also waiting for a lot of work on two bodies in the composition or at the Directorate for Sport and the Professional Council for Sport. At the previous hearing, I presented two specific cases of crime, corruption. This is what international magazines and newspapers write about, and there is no mention of it. I promise that immediately after the appointment of the Minister, I will initiate appropriate procedures to ensure that these moral principles and ethical standards are established not only on posters every four years. So much for education. I also took part in the hearings of the candidate for Minister of Defence, our distinguished colleague Mrs Katič. I've asked a number of specific questions, but let me sum it up. I think you've got a lot of work to do. In the past, some harmful moves have been made in this area, which today are mainly reflected in the structural problems and problems of the Slovenian Army, but which I think will not be resolved overnight. For example, if we look at the administrative part of Mors, it counts in Slovenia over a thousand people, and in Denmark 300 people are employed in the administrative part of the army. In the Slovenian Army, more than 70% are paid, which is unsustainable. And to be honest, these salaries aren't enough to be proud of us. Some measures will therefore be needed to increase the defence budget, especially at the expense of investments and the purchase of new equipment. In doing so, I call on the Minister-designate to work in accordance with Slovenia's foreign policy orientations and to defend the views of Western countries, countries of progress and development. I therefore hope that, in her work, she will not give in to some populist and ideological moves and force her to the east or perhaps be classified as not classified. Those times are gone. I am also concerned about the intensity of cooperation with the Russian army, which is an aggressor in Ukraine. I don't know what kind of message we're giving with this world, our partner. I don't think they can take us for the most serious. At the same time, I would like to remind the candidate that her predecessor and also Prime Minister Miro Cerar committed themselves to the Secretary-General of NATO Stoltenberg not to lower the defence budget for this year. But what happened? We had a budget rebalancing, and the funds went down. Therefore, you will have much work to do if Slovenia in the international community wants to be a credible partner, a normal country, to restore this reputation and to fulfil its commitments to NATO and to achieve a 2% of GDP defence expenditure by 2020 and within this 20% for the development, investment and purchase of new equipment. So much for me. Both candidates – I am sure they will be elected – I want a lot of happiness and a lot of work elena because they will need it more than they need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Benedict Kopmajer has the floor to prepare himself for the Mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u32	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, distinguished candidates for ministers, distinguished representatives of ministries, colleagues and colleagues! As a long-standing staff member in the various structures of the Ministry of Defence and as a member of the Defence Department, I would like to express my support for the Defence Minister's candidate, Mrs Andreja Katič. I closely monitored her presentation on the home committee, this is the Defence Committee, and I am very pleased to support her vision of managing an important national resource in charge of the defence of the Republic of Slovenia. The Ministry of Defence is one of the three pillars of national security, the sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia. Sovereignty was not given to us by itself, but in 1991 we had to fight for it. Sadly, some have paid for this sovereignty with their lives. Therefore, we must be careful how and by what means we are prepared to defend this sovereignty again, if necessary. Of course I'm talking about the Slovenian Army. Nor should we neglect the knowledge and experience of housing organisations, such as officers, veterans and others, which must be involved in the preparation of strategic decisions and in the creation of a strategic reserve. An important segment in the Ministry of Defence is also a system of protection and rescue involving a whole range of volunteers, comprising more than 150 000 members, including firefighters, mountain rescuers, Red Cross units, campers and other paramedics. These are people who are deeply aware of the importance of solidarity. Nature isn't egregious. Each year there are more natural and other accidents and their consequences have a long-term impact, reaching an average of almost 2% of the gross social product on an annual basis. Let me just remind you of the glands or floods that have affected Slovenia in the last period. The Ministry of Defense must act in a stable manner. Repeated frequent exchanges, too frequent exchanges of ministers destabilize the structure. There's no room for politicization at the Ministry of Defence. Depending on the functioning of the Ministry of Defence, the security of Slovenian people and all those moving in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia depends. We are responsible for national security. We do not look to the past for mistakes, look to the future and support the good proposals that mean the development of the defence system. As Vice-President of the Defence Committee, I support the professional proposals coming from the Ministry and will also closely monitor the development of the Defence Department in the future. That is why I want Mrs Andreja Katič to calm the situation in the Ministry of Defence with her expertise and energy, which some still think of as a nursery that can be processed according to her own feelings. In the Ministry of Defence, and especially in the Slovenian Army, creative peace must be restored, as it is an institution that remains high on the trust of citizens and citizens, and it is right to remain so. I want a good feeling between the new co-workers and good luck running both ministries, and of course both candidates will also get my vote. However, I would like to ask the future Minister of Defence to convey congratulations to our parliamentary group on the upcoming Slovenian Army holiday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Muršič, get Mrs. Andreja Potočnik ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u34	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Let me start by saying that I am a little disappointed that today we have to decide on two new ministers, because it has only been a good eight months since we confirmed the 12th Slovenian government. In such a very short time, much has changed. However, I am pleased that the Prime Minister of the Government has proposed two candidates for such an important ministry. There are two ambitious women coming to the government who will make a big contribution to the government team. For the first time in Slovenia, we will have as many as half of the women in the government. This is very commendable, so to the President of the Government all congratulations on such a wise decision. We need to be aware that we women are brave, prudent, constructive, persistent, connecting, and could even list, but enough. Unfortunately, I have not been to any of the hearings myself, but I have carefully read all the magnetograms and have come to know the two proposed candidates for the minister. I congratulate both of you on the courageous move you have decided to take on the ministry. Let me speak a few words about the candidate for Minister of Education, Science and Sport. The candidate for Minister of Education, Science and Sport will take over a very broad area of work. Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič comes from academic species. She already has a lot of knowledge about education, but she will have a lot to do, because she will take over, she will link the entire vertical of education and education, which we need to connect in the spirit of comprehensive development, as she stressed in her presentation. It seems important to me that it is planning to develop the integration of the school system with the economy, to introduce apprenticeships, to pilot cases of dual system development both in vocational and higher education, as we can expect that this approach will give the employer the opportunity to identify their future co-workers. They will also be given the opportunity to prove their knowledge and abilities. But the key to me is that we do not forget our youngest in education and also our children in primary education, as well as our teachers. I therefore expect the future Minister to pay particular attention to quality education and to all available education and education systems at both the pre-school and primary levels. It is particularly important, however, that he gain a greater reputation as a teacher. There's always money at the forefront. I am counting on the understanding that education for us is the only real opportunity for the socio-economic breakthrough of Slovenia. I also expect the future Minister to take her decisions with due consideration and to demonstrate her understanding of public education of crucial importance. At the same time, I cannot go beyond the proposal of the Social Democrats and the other parliamentary groups that we have put forward a proposal to amend the Constitution to Article 57 of the Constitution. With this change, we want basic education in public schools to be financed through public funds and private schools can be financed to a limited extent. In her presentation, the candidate made it clear that it is important that we have a quality, accessible and fair public education and that private education as an addition to the space offering a type of choice. The Minister will therefore provide the conditions for access to education to the largest and widest possible part of society. So, I expect from the future Minister a clear delimitation of public and private education. For a short time, she would have touched on learning aid. This is a specific group of children who need this help. To this day, the ratio was far from the standards of humanity. Even the fatherly attitude of the country towards this group of children in society could be called that. Learning aid is one of the most important forms of assistance to the weak. Of course, this is not the only one, but it is one of the few that, after all, allows children to interact with special needs in society. I believe that this assistance needs to be upgraded. Knowledge is a public good, and the public responsibility of every government, including ours, is to provide the conditions that will be given to everyone, regardless of the initial position. So, Minister, I expect that there will be no future savings in knowledge, as I regard this as an unacceptable deviation from school policy. I want many wise decisions from Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič. According to your presentation, you have my support. But I will closely monitor all your decisions. Allow me to say a few more words about our candidate and Minister of Defence, Mrs Andreja Katič. The Ministry of Defence is a state-owned ministry, very extensive. In her presentation, candidate Andreja Katič, my client colleague and a colleague of the local species, proved that she would be able to carry out such a responsible job as managing this ministry. In her presentation, she highlighted several critical issues that will be addressed, which are crucial for her and for Slovenia, namely the amendment of the Defence Act, the human rights problems in the military, the career system of soldiers. The funding for defence expenditure, which has been declining in recent years, will have to be raised again. Our system of protection and rescue is very much recognised at home and abroad, so it is still necessary to upgrade the already good system, and the response of the Ministry of Defence to international changes such as terrorism, international organised crime, uncontrolled proliferation of weapons will also be crucial to protect Slovenia and its citizens and citizens. I believe this is a very big deal, but I don't doubt candidate Andrei Katič. She turned out to be an exceptional director at the local level. During the crisis, she was responsible for her work. She continued her work responsibly in the National Assembly, where she was excellent as Vice-President of the National Assembly. We will really miss her, but the challenge ahead of her will do more than sovereign. It will solve problems with a great deal of patience, as well as its determination to do more than welcome. Let me just focus on the human resources area she mentioned in the hearing. We all know that the number of employees in the public sector has begun to decline with the ZUJF, especially in defence belonging to the public sector. However, the number was reduced not only because of the natural outflow but also because we do not have the status of a soldier saved after 45 years. After this year, Slovenian soldiers are running out of social security, and I believe that our dear colleague Andreja will particularly advocate that this problem of soldiers will be resolved as soon as possible, as a result of the increasing number of employees in the Ministry, when they are given the opportunity to work elsewhere, to take advantage of and leave military services. It is a very capable people who have contributed to this and also to the military. I believe that she will be able to work with all of her defence stakeholders in a fair and coherent manner, which will bring all the necessary confidence into the ministry. I also believe that she will use all her legal knowledge in her work before she makes decisions that could be at the border of legality. I expect her to be assisted by a team at the Ministry that will support her and not throw her under her feet. So, the candidate for Minister Andrej Katič, you have my full support. In your further work, I want you to stay the way you are, patient, connecting, accessible, constructive, and just remember us colleagues and fellow Members. At the same time, I want you to carry out your words so that you can work with your personality and knowledge for the benefit of citizens and citizens. So, both candidates are very lucky to continue working on the government team. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mrs Andreja Potočnik has the floor to prepare Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Since I am a member of the Defence Committee, allow me to speak a few words about the candidate for Minister. Mrs Katič has done an excellent job in the debate itself. It is aware of the weaknesses and advantages of the Slovenian Army and the Ministry of Defence. In his mandate, he sees as a challenge, above all, the regulation of the problem of unused career paths, which leave the Slovenian Army with good staff. The status of soldiers after the age of 45 is also unresolved. It will also be necessary to update the Defence Act, which was last amended in 2004. For many years, the profession and the various public have been warning that changes are necessary. At the time of our entry into NATO, we made a commitment to earmark up to 2% of GDP for defence. Given the economic situation of this objective, we are currently not achieving it. However, the future minister will seek to raise these funds. On the other hand, in her discussion, the candidate also highlighted praises that were not available. Among other things, members of the Slovenian Armed Forces have achieved impressive results at various trainings abroad, and most of them are members of the entire system as people of heart. Recently, NATO's Center of Excellence for Mountain Fighting in Poljča was presented in public. Only 20 such centres are currently accredited in the world. The aim of this centre is to develop the doctrine of the relationship then to fight in the mountains. The candidate promised to present, together with the Chief of General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, a report on the readiness of the Slovenian Armed Forces to the President of the Republic of Slovenia. It also touched on the topics of the Role 2 mobile hospital in Jesenica, the protection and rescue system, mountain rescue and so on. In short, the candidate convinced me on the committee responsible with her arguments and views. Both candidates or, I am sure, also wish new ministers a lot of successful work and a lot of positive energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mrs Ludmila Novak has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Slovenia has invested a lot in school walls so far, which is good and right to have schools on the level. We also invested a lot in teacher education. In this area, we have very high standards, and we sometimes outnumber other countries in many ways, following school arrangements, after the education of teachers or teachers, educators, professors and so on. Of course, we also have certain shortcomings that could be addressed as soon as possible, and I expect that from a future minister who has a healthy view and also experience in the development of Slovenian education, education at all levels. First of all, I wonder how it is possible that, with all the institutions we have, including the Education Institute, the textbooks have expired, that this has not been regulated in time, even though everyone knew that the textbooks are expired. Above all, I also believe that we should do more to align our curricula in all areas at all levels with the needs of time and to coordinate the school system with the needs of time, as we often educate for unemployed jobs and should respond to the needs of society and the needs of the economy. I therefore expect that a dual system for vocational education will also be introduced in Slovenia, because the theory is really useless if we do not upgrade it with practical knowledge. I hear many times now from employers, economists who say that young people are no longer used to working. Once, when many came from rural areas, where there is little more work than if we live in urban settlements, working habits may have decreased slightly, and this, the employers point out, is very important that young people also have practical knowledge. So, planning a network of high schools to really educate us for what's busy and what we need. Then I also wish that the school would continue to perform its educational function. The most important educators are parents, but education at all levels is extremely important, education for values. Teachers must also have certain instruments for this, because it is sad that many need security guards. I would like teachers to have more opportunities to train, including for certain measures, in order to facilitate the establishment of order and discipline and not to need security guards or any more serious measures. If I give just a few more words to the security of the state. Although I wish that armies should never have to be used in Slovenia, it is important that we have at least the core of our army. But I always say that it would not be bad for all young people to go to education for at least a month in order to learn the order and discipline that they sometimes acquired in the military. Many mothers and wives would also be happy and grateful. Although I know that this knowledge must always be built up, it would also be a foundation for, God forbid, a need in time of war if that were to happen to us. I want the new ministers to take advantage of this opportunity that they have received, and I believe that they will be able to do a lot of things that men's colleagues will not be able to do with their efforts and women's ingenuity and intuition. At that, I wish them good luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Shircelj, get Mrs. Irena Kotnik ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! If I first discuss what the President of the Government is proposing to us, then I can say that the saga of his ministers continues. Indeed, he has major problems with education, with the field of the Ministry of Education, and so a third minister will now be proposed within eight months. The problem is not that we don't have a minister, the problem is that the job is standing. Not only work, work at the Ministry, but they're getting smaller in this perspective of young people. On the other hand, we have the Ministry of Defence. In the area of the Ministry of Defence, I do not think there will be any major changes due to these changes. It's probably going to be pretty stable. After all, security is stable, but maybe another time. Today, however, I would focus more on the Ministry of Education, which Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič is expected to take over. I believe in her qualifications, which she has also mentioned and which we can also see in her CV, but when she presents herself, I am particularly concerned about what she has not said. She did not say in particular that it would improve the learning, the learning of young people, in particular to provide better education conditions for young people. She did not predict that textbooks for primary schools would be free of charge. She did not predict that all these textbooks and working volumes for secondary schools would be available on the website of the Institute of Education or the Ministry of Education. This would be appropriate, it would be a minimal contribution to increasing education in this country, improving education and moving from words to actions. In short, all those who often stress how important education is to say OK, but the goal are young and the goal is a better education structure. The aim of the Minister of Education, in preparing a new law on higher education, ladies and gentlemen, is to make a bigger resource, because we do not know what kind of law it will be, whether it will be good or bad, or whether it will be better for young people in the sense that they will live better. For me, education is what gives a young educated person a perspective and also gives him the ability to apply his skills on the market to acquire a profession that is valued and not least paid. Here is a new question arises whether the Minister covering education will train these young people to eventually acquire a profession that will be recognised and paid on the market. Education in itself is probably not the intention, although in certain cases, more broadly, we can also talk about it. At today’s youth unemployment rate, however, it is particularly important what these young people will be educated to do. If we look at some of the analyses prepared by the Ministry of Labour and various ministries, it is mainly the analysis of unemployment that has been pointing out for many years that the network of educational programmes has not been aligned at the secondary and tertiary levels with the needs of the labour market. The entry of young people into professional and professional programmes where the labour market is in stable demand is decreasing or has even disappeared. There is no dual apprenticeship system and so on, and those countries that have such a system today have the least unemployment. I don't know what the Minister will do in this area except say she supports a dual system. There's no vision. If there is no vision of the Minister of Education, the question is whether young people have a perspective. She didn't talk about it much. She talked a lot about high school, tertiary education. I understand that he knows him better, but primary, secondary and even more vocational education is important for young people. Here is a question that the minister also did not talk about: Will the Ministry of Education create jobs or will it teach young people how to start their own work and how to train themselves for a profession? That's not what the secretary was talking about, but that's the point. Today, all international institutions talk about it, adopting programs to teach young people how to fish if you want, but not in a way that gives them fish. This is also discussed by those involved in education, not only in Europe, but also in other continents. She didn't tell the Minister, and she didn't tell me what the program was to do, so that when young people finish their education and are told on the job market, Sam will get a job and we'll make a deal with you, these young people know how to work themselves, what to do, where to go, how to work. Today — including studies in the field of education — every young person needs more professions, three to four. Not because he wants to, but because the economy, the economy, is changing, the needs for what the labour market needs are changing. And the educational system is the one that has to prepare young people to succeed and create their own bread. That's what the secretary didn't say. She also did not say that it did not matter whether it would be public education or private education. Personally, it doesn't mean you pay it out of your own pocket. It means it's also free. It is not important public or private, it is important to have a good or bad, quality or inadequacy education that prepares people for their knowledge, their work on the market, to be valued. I'm afraid we don't have that today. I wouldn't go into numbers here. There are numbers about how many people we have who are familiar with certain professions that they can do but do not do. Nor did the Minister say how she would resolve the issue of student status. We are one of the few countries where student status is possible for almost ten years. This prolongs the unemployment of young people already in the middle of life. And that's the problem. Then we educate the person, this system educates the person who has neither the skills nor the profession to succeed in the market, and then stays unemployed for two, three years. I'm sorry. At 30, 35 years of age, he's even harder to work, and he's finally forgotten a lot of things. This is the task of Minister of Education or Minister of Education. And that's not it. That is why I doubt that this ministry will be successful, especially in the sense that the gap, as some say now, will be reduced between the needs of the economy and what comes from our school system. There is some indolence of this government towards this ministry. After all, people change here, people in this ministry are ministers for a while, and then they're not anymore. This means that this government does not take this ministry too seriously. The personnel are such that they are very quick to replace, which is certainly not good. I wish he had all the open questions I have mentioned here today, but not only the answers, but also the programme. That the Minister will come and say this and that and this is my program; my goal is not a new law, but a different educational process; from tomorrow there are textbooks for free; the Education Institute will publish all textbooks on the websites; the number of textbooks for secondary schools for mathematics will be reduced. These are the programmes, these are the effects and these are the measures that young people need today. That's a start. And also: I'm going to further stimulate, I'm going to scholarship professions for which there's enough work on the market. This is what can be the aim of the Minister of Education. At the same time, I'm going to do this and that for sport. And so on. But it's not, and it's making me question it. In the end, I would like to apologize to Mrs Katič for not giving her too many words about the defence area. I have to say, I'm not a specialist either, but I want her to have a lot of success in her work, and I think she's going to be a success on the floor of the Department of Defense and Nate.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mrs Irena Kotnik has the floor to prepare Mr Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today we confirm two ministers, Ms Andrejo Katič as Minister of Defence. I don't know that much about this area, because I wasn't even at this hearing, but I listened to the tapegram and talked to my colleagues and colleagues from SMC who are members of this committee. And these colleagues of mine and my colleagues gave you their trust, they gave you their approval. I have also listened to your magnetogram, so I have seen from this that you have well described the situation which is now in this area, that you are aware of the importance of the security of the country, the safety of all citizens and citizens. And I know you as a colleague. I know how you led the National Assembly as Vice-President, and from this I have a very high opinion on your personality and on you, including on legal expertise. I wish you every success in your work. You have my support. I know you've got a lot of work to do, but I'm sure you'll make it. The second candidate is Prof. Maja Makovec Brenčič, a candidate for the Minister of Education, Science and Sport. The candidate is directly involved in the process of education and education as a professor in the field of international business and as a speaker in the field of knowledge transfer at the University of Ljubljana. At the presentation, she gave us answers from different fields and topics of education and education. She presented her vision to us, but she would focus only on the content that I personally consider important to the candidate who will take over the management of this station. As she sees it, she presented her work as equivalent in all areas of education and from preschool to university. In doing so, she stressed that it would focus on the response of education to changes in society and the needs of the labour market, where I see the advantage in linking education and the economy. If I focus on the introduction of apprenticeship and dual system and on different forms of pre-employment practical experience, this means more jobs for young people in the long term. It plans to develop a comprehensive model of identification and quality assurance, including the professional development of teaching workers, where I see in particular an increase in the authority of teaching workers. At the presentation, she stressed the consideration of all actors in the educational process in solving the various topics, where it is important that communication takes place in all directions, because good solutions are achieved only by taking into account and harmonising the different opinions. In this context, emphasis is placed on increasing the involvement of children, raising the quality of the education process and the achievements of students and strengthening lifelong learning, and in particular ensuring better cooperation between parents, schools and the local environment. In view of all this, the candidate has my support. At the end of the day, both candidates would like a successful job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl has the floor to prepare Mr Franc Laj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! In the Desus Group, we believe and believe that the candidate for Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Brenčič will be a good candidate or a good minister. Why? For the first time, a balanced approach to all three basic areas of the area covered by it, i.e. a balanced approach to both science, education and sport, has made it public that it will support it. We particularly consider it important to be aware of the importance and balance of education from the very beginning of primary school or kindergarten to the university. For us in Desus, it is particularly important that the Minister is clearly aware and advocates public, quality and accessible education for all, and that he also has a fully clear concept of financing this area, which is essential. I believe that investing in education, investing in people is the best, the most profitable investment even in the long run. I am particularly pleased that the candidate for a minister has also highlighted the close link between the education system and both economic and non-economic areas, with the desire that there is no gap between what the school produces, what the education system produces and what the labour market needs. Personally, I believe that the candidate's basic profession and her many years of experience and knowledge of the field of education are a win-win combination for the successful management of this resource. To finish my education, or with the first candidate, if that's what I can call it. I would also like to see those talks in the third place approved by the new Minister as a win-win combination and a guarantee for the successful management of this department by the end of the term of office. And there's something small about candidate Katich. We all had the opportunity and opportunity to get to know her well in these few months. I personally assess that she has carried out her duties perfectly both as Members and as Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly. It is undeniable that he has the knowledge, experience and vision to face challenges that are few in the field of defence. In the face of already open issues, which I will not focus too much on because I have little knowledge in this area, however, I would also like to deal with the Slovenian Armed Forces funding regime with the desire that no segment suffers from state security, i.e. the security of the country, as well as the security of members of the Slovenian Army. At the same time, I must say in the same breath that resources at the expense of defence expenditure do not mean that funds in the area of social security, family benefits, scholarships, pensions, and could also be listed, are not reduced. My colleague Katič and all of us want more butter than cannons, because when people are satisfied and socially unhindered, they have no desire to fight cannons and other weapons. In conclusion, I sincerely wish both future ministers the great happiness they will undoubtedly need here and the great success of carrying out such an important task. I'm going to make a small contribution with my voice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Laj has the floor to prepare Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u46	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Dear ministerial assembly, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, especially candidates! I'm going to start with a candidate for the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, not because I would consider her a better candidate, but because this area is somehow closer to me. As we all know in a way, knowledge of our society is of strategic importance. Any investment in knowledge for me means strategic investment. With proper education, of course. It is absolutely necessary for parents to cooperate and bear the main burden. By establishing a system of values and by providing quality education, we certainly push our future path into a regulated, successful and competitive society. You know that river as far as you know, you're worth it. Today, in a global world or in a global situation, this still holds you competitive, especially when you still have useful knowledge. In order to achieve all of this, I believe that, in my knowledge of this topic, it will certainly be necessary to fall into the already established educational process, mainly at the basic level; here I am thinking at the primary level. Where do I see these improvements? Above all, more emphasis should be given to the learning process itself, to foreign languages, to the teaching of foreign languages, and to functional labelling, which is extremely important. Finally, it is very important to encourage and develop the creativity of children. My experience doesn't show that that's how it would be right now. More or less, children are burdened with content that is very difficult for them to understand, given their age, in order to understand each other. And what's going on? It happens that instead of developing creative thinking they are forced to take a different course, it is learning from a mind that is, as we know, very bad, because that knowledge will never be permanent. The usefulness of this knowledge is also very questionable. The damage is any energy invested in this direction. Therefore, in a way, I call on the candidate to pay attention to all that I have mentioned, because it is only in this way that I see that these young people on whom the world stands and who mean our safe future will also be prepared for life and will find themselves in life. That's what we need to care about. And this has in some ways also led to a proper focus on vocational education in order to decide on the professions that are deficient, with which they will be competitive, with which they will be able to live normally. So much possible for a candidate for the Minister of Education. That's all right. I really appreciate it, colleague Katič. I met her here in the National Assembly, and if she's so determined and resourceful, I believe she can also run the Ministry of Defence successfully. And it's no less important than the previous ministry I was talking about. I want both candidates, and I sincerely want great happiness and success. After all, this will be our success. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mahnic has the floor to prepare Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, Secretary of State, fellow Member and fellow Members! Today, when we are discussing whether to confirm or not two new ministers, it is time not to talk about their future work, because we cannot yet know what it will be like, but to look back on what has been done so far in the departments or areas for which we are putting the new two ministers. I remember how bad you all looked when one of my fellow Members of Parliament was four or five months old from the government, saying the past six months and you haven't done anything yet. Today is about eight months, since we named the government of Mir Cerar, two months more than half a year, and today I can say that eight months have passed and nothing has yet been done. You accepted two rebalancings, some kind of judicial package we got. For three months you have dealt with the mandate of Janez Janša, and with the withdrawal of his mandate by eminent lawyers, the doctors have embarrassed and demonstrated their legal knowledge, or, according to a decision of the Constitutional Court, ignorance. For instance. The second government, Janez Janša, has adopted a pension reform, adopted a labour market reform, adopted a Public Finance Balance Act within ten months. In these eight months, you have not adopted any law or reform that would have about the same weight as those three laws or reforms. You just analyze these eight months, but you know when you decide to run, when you decide to take power, you have to come up with solutions, you have to have things analyzed, and not that then one year – we all know that each government will eventually start to support it, and the most productive is that first year, maybe another, to carry out key reforms. We have seen these things in virtually all governments so far. When I said you didn't do anything, I don't want to talk about it, so I'm gonna go after the coalition contract on the points for these two departments and tell them whether it's done or not. By the way, in the area of education in eight months, we did not receive any Members and Members of Parliament at the table. In eight months, there's not a single law of substance. And then the question is, are you really working? Coalition Treaty, Chapter 4.13. Young. I know it's not everything for the Ministry of Education, but it's something. The measures are as follows. Firstly, all in one place; establishing a career incubator for the active inclusion of young people in the labour market – is not done. Secondly, more accessible kindergartens for young people are not made. Thirdly, the Voucher system; to establish a Voucher system for the performance of compulsory traineeships and practices through which students and students will gain a greater choice for the performance of these – is not done. Fourth time, housing cooperatives – are not implemented. Good loans; young farmers should be allowed to continue their family tradition and so on – it is not realized. Human resources scholarships; the companies that will carry out the job after the end of the scholarship will be exempt from the payment of contributions in the first year – once again not realized. Recording work experience; we will strive to establish a single system for recording the work experience of young people at the national level – it is not realized. Ladies and gentlemen, after eight months of the Government of Mir Cerar, not a single point of the Coalition Treaty on Youth has been realized. Security. First, a comprehensive crisis management and management system; the role of the National Security Council, Secretariats, other mechanisms has not been examined. Secondly, the establishment of a critical infrastructure protection system; the identification and identification of critical infrastructure and the development of measures to establish its protection system. Okay, here former Minister Janko Weber by triggering this intelligence affair prevented Telekom Slovenije's sale, so we can say that in this part it is partially realized because he protected critical infrastructure by not selling Telekom Slovenije now. Thirdly, the adjustment of the organisational structure; to the ministries and bodies in their composition, which are primarily responsible for internal security and defence, to adapt the internal organisational structure and so on – has not been implemented again. Career path; on the basis of professional and transparent criteria and realistic needs, ensure that the career path of all those employed in the national security system is precisely defined and implemented in a consistent manner, as the former Minister has said today. But what is this career path? In particular, the higher ranks of former JLA officers, those who were at the time of the war for Slovenia on the JLA side. Sixth point, security and intelligence control. It has also not been realized that you will complement the Law on Parliamentary Oversight, where you will provide the Commission with an expert group. High school. Ensure an environment for the autonomous operation of the National Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Quality in Higher Education – is not realized. More flexible forms of study; ensuring better efficiency and connectivity of programmes and their internationalisation – are not realized. Open learning environments. The professional development of higher education workers; support the continuous promotion of the professional development of higher education workers – is not realized again. Fifthly, the adoption of the law on higher education – the law is not adopted, is not implemented again. An increase in the funding of the higher education public service. Connecting research and education – it is not realized. Ladies and gentlemen, your government has not implemented a single item in the two chapters of the Coalition Treaty, Youth and Higher Education in eight months. And then you look at me strangely and creminate when I say you haven't done anything in eight months. Somebody please tell me what you've done in the field of education. I'll be right down with the ashes. But only when one of you tells me what you've done. Three ministers have changed, because that's something. Yeah, you didn't, no! If one of you tells me what you've done, I'll fuck with the ashes. Within eight months, there is no substantive law in the field of education! And then here I'm listening to the coalition MPs -- it's really funny -- when the minister said what she was going to do, what I liked was what she said. Why hasn't this been done so far?Oh, my God! While President of the Government was Minister of Education in between twice. And it won't be now. Then I watched the hearing on TV and our client was not only critical to the candidate. Of course, she set up some important things. And if it does, even after the hearing, it is obvious that what is said by the towers and writes by some media that Miro Cerar to the Government will receive his ministerial position if those who put it are also determined that the time will come when it will no longer be useful or when it will no longer be useful. But for now, since the sale of Telekom will not run because you will stop the privatisation of some other state-owned companies, it is not a matter of fear that this coalition will fall apart so quickly. As far as defense is concerned, I have second thoughts. The minister said everything she had to do, but former Minister Janko Weber was at this meeting, you probably remember, he said, "I've done everything and I'm happy with it. I did everything I wanted to do." Now I don't know if the minister sees problems and problems where they don't exist, or if the former minister hasn't seen any problems. It'll be interesting to keep an eye on her work. In the area of defence, she probably has experience when she watched the film Saving Ryan's Soldiers or where the Slovenian Army is going, probably more Sutjesko or Neretvo. I believe Mrs Katič will have serious problems at the Ministry. We know that it is a great dissatisfaction that politics is also trying to tighten its hands, its fingers, and it will be difficult to defend itself. If not otherwise, former retired General Lipič will probably arrive shortly after her takeover of the Ministry with a list of names of certain persons and tell us where to place someone. This is how it happens in the Slovenian defence system. And I also find it difficult to believe that the lady will consolidate the security and intelligence service, given that she has been virtually shot by the personnel of the Social Democrats. It also originates from this party and is unlikely to result in certain changes in this area. I only hope that it will not continue to use it to halt the privatisation of Slovenian companies and will not order the ODS to intervene in the civil sphere. Also, at her hearing session, she did not hear what to do with the failed patriotic project. 130 armoured men, who were then to be purchased for 280 million euros, which corresponded to the needs of both the Slovenian Army and the Alliance, went to the francs, according to the local word, so that the Slovenian Democratic Party and Janez Janša could be shut down for seven years. The question was how this project would be replaced, but there was no answer. I'm not saying, the secretary's presentation was very nice. She can't be bothered. Since the lady did not know this area before, I believe someone wrote it to her. I hope he'll give her some advice. The red thread was aware of the need to raise the defence budget or at least stop the fall in defence funds. But to stop this fall, we promised last year after the Wales summit, and it fell again. From 0.97 to 0.96% of GDP, we have reduced the defence budget. During the time of Minister Vebra, representatives of the Russian army visited the 1st Brigade of the Slovenian Army twice or three times. When our American allies wanted to visit the 1st Brigade of the Slovenian Army, they were refused, if the Minister must first go to the 1st Brigade. And the Minister didn't go to see the 1st Brigade. The Russians can come, the Americans can't. We're raising officers. We have already had a meeting of the Defence Committee on this subject today. We will get – I still hope that the President of the Republic has so much sense that he will not raise it – a member of the JLA, who was on the side of the JLA during the war for Slovenia, and we will raise him to the rank of Major General. We set such an example for members and members of the Slovenian Army. But this is obviously a new course in the Slovenian Army, a distance from some pro-Nato politics, pro-Western policies and the destruction of the Slovenian Army. If before Nate we were embarrassed by the fact that we sent Mr Benedejčič there – I was once up the halls saying that Mr. Spying for the Russians. The Slovenians didn't make that up, but the allies asked us. We're sending up suspicious personnel again. Not only are we going to send David Humar up there, we're going to send him up with a general act. But it's just our policy to connect NATO, politics to the West. Here Putin is fortunate; Slovenia is obviously connected to Russia based on history, at least this left set, which is now in power. All Eurosceptics in the European Parliament, about 180 of them, did not write well after the elections. Vladimir Putin won 180 votes in the European Parliament and is now targeting the weakest countries in NATO. It's not the Baltic. It's not Poland. This is Greece, this is probably Hungary, because of the prime minister there, and this is Slovenia. And through these countries, Russia is trying to destabilise the NATO connection, and we are in the arms of Russia, in the arms of the aggressor, in the arms of the one who blamed the war on Ukraine. Three weeks ago, in the Defence Committee, we hosted the NATO military representatives, and we accepted them. I was then because I tried to be visible and I did not want to show Slovenia in such a light, quietly. Next time they come, I won't be quiet. In any case, they know what is going on in our country, because they are informed through other channels. One of the TVs was a minister who couldn't answer what to do with the tanks. EUR 55 million has been invested in the reconstruction of T-55 tanks. Today, the cannon on the tank, when the tank is in motion, can't even shoot because it's not stabilized because it wouldn't hit the target. But the responsibilities of no one, no answer, will we sell them for some symbolic price after we have invested 55 million euros in them to get some 20, 30, 40 thousand euros. But these are clearly not coalition issues. Keep your head in the sand and look at those who warn. Everything the opposition here in this House draws attention to, regardless of which side it is of any importance. With a light majority it is possible to rule, obstruct meetings Yesterday we had a meeting of the Commission to oversee intelligence and security services, where we had a major issue after the Yugoslav system collapsed, when we went to Slovenia alone, where the killings of the former State Security Service were due because they were not committed. [[...]] Every hunter, every sports shooter must have a gun sheet at home, do appropriate medical and psychological tests, make a test so that you can own the A, B or C category. Here's an A, B, C, even a D category. But this is lying somewhere in Slovenia, nobody knows it, and you say this commission is not responsible for it. At the same time, the head of the largest parliamentary group, SMC, says that the Human Rights Commission is not competent to deal with the Udba, because it is the responsibility of the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission. So let's figure out who's in charge of something. Let's at least get in line before you send any letters. And of course, you are not concerned about the security of citizens and citizens, because it is also necessary to protect your members, Members, Godfathers and so on. I, Mrs Andreja Katič, and Mrs candidate for Minister of Education, want them to succeed in what they have asked us to get as soon as possible what the lady also said, a dual school system to stop the Minister from lowering the budget for defence and to turn out to be a credible partner of NATO, not to send more pro-Russian personnel there, not to accept the Russian army into the Slovenian army. On Slovenian soil, Russian generals say that NATO is a fascist organization. I don't know how you can even invite them or let them say that. And then we want to be a credible partner in the NATO relationship. With such a policy, with such foreign policy, we will not be credible, no one will take us seriously. And that story about Slovenia as a success, as far as it is not yet, will soon begin to see completely different, that there are obviously some other years coming, some other course that will take Slovenia to other areas. But if you want to do that, draw up a new foreign policy strategy, defence policy, and tell me we're not going to do that anymore, we're going there. We'll be against it, but I've got minor problems with us making it clear what our course is, even though it's outside the NATO relationship, but we're one foot out there, the other leg out there, and the truth is everywhere or nowhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor to prepare Mr Marjan Dolinšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister Irena Majcen, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are talking about the candidacy of two ministers. I'll touch Dr. Makovec Brenčič's candidacy first. Ms Brenčič received the support of the Education Committee for the management of a very wide range of resources, namely the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. As a very important point of view, I think that the candidate is an advocate for all accessible and quality public education. Her view, too, that private education is a complementary form of education, which gives citizens a choice between public and private, seems very good to me. I am also pleased that the candidate for Minister Maja Makovec Brenčič is aware of the need to link higher education with the economy and thus to ensure faster economic development in the country. I also expect the new Minister to take care of more planned education so that we do not continue to educate the army of more teachers and other socially educated young people who do not have a job. In this area, its approach will be very important. Its view of the introduction of the apprenticeship system in the field of vocational education also gives hope that a new wind will change in the field of education in Slovenia or, if you want, a new wind. So, the candidate for Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Mrs Maja Makovec Brenčič, I am supporting her candidacy and I wish her a successful job in the field she has decided on. Allow me now to touch on the candidacy of distinguished colleague Andreja Katič, who is running for Secretary of Defence. Dear colleague Andreja Katič is a Member and Vice-President of the National Assembly, who has done this work in the past period very successfully, intensively, well-launched, and I very, very much appreciate and respect her. I am sure that the work in the area for which she is running, that is, the Minister of Defence, will be carried out at least as conscientiously or even more actively and responsibly, as well as successfully. She also showed her willingness to perform this work at a presentation on the Defence Committee, where, as my colleagues have told me, she presented her vision of managing the Ministry of Defence and proved that she had made a thorough presentation of the area. It has therefore proved, with regard to the resolution of defence problems and knowledge of the situation in the Slovenian Army, that it has become familiar with this issue, as I have already said, and that it will lead the area well. And that's what I'd like to say. It seems very important to me that it is also aware of its responsibilities in the area of the system of defence against natural disasters, because, as we have seen recently, we know that this area is also very important. That is why I wish my respectable colleague Katič a successful job in the area for which she is running. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Marjan Dolinšek has the floor to prepare Mrs Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, chairman. Respectable all present, distinguished representatives of the government, respected both candidates for the Minister! I'm going to talk about the candidate for Secretary of Defense. And don't let the candidate for Minister of Education blame me. In fact, as a member of the Defence Committee, I will focus on this part. So I'm going to talk about Mrs. Andreja Katič's candidate. When an opportunity was offered and she was given an opportunity, she accepted the candidacy. This challenge is not small. I think she will have the opportunity to deal with a number of problems, problems she is familiar with, as she also presented and promised us at the presentation, or to make sure that she is ready to deal with them and to solve them. And not just save, save and save. Resor is not easy. The work of the predecessor, former Minister of Vebra, who did his job, as he said, – I think that the emphasis was on his work, not on the work that is much to do – will continue, Minister Katič has made a priority, as she presented in her presentation. She claimed that, first of all, she would present a report to the President of the State as the Commander-in-Chief on the readiness of the Slovenian Armed Forces, the readiness to respond to changes in the international environment, the readiness of the Slovenian Armed Forces to act in accordance with Slovenian security and foreign policy, and, last but not least, the willingness to protect and respond to natural and other disasters. It further highlighted the operational tasks in the Western Balkans to think carefully and consider reducing KFOR forces in this part, part of which is our country or we contribute with our contingent. On this occasion, I would like to put my heart at her heart that the latest events in Macedonia also make her think in this direction that this aspect — as we know it — will probably not end tomorrow. This situation can expand further. In certain parts, we have already read that there are opportunities to move to Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that this work will also, at the very beginning, be devoted to a great deal of obedience and also to the appropriate approach to certain changes that are necessary with regard to the security aspect and the defence aspect, in particular our country of the Republic of Slovenia. We have heard in the presentation that it will support the medium-term defence programme 2015-2020, which is in preparation, and that it wants not only to adopt this medium-term programme, but also to implement it effectively in practice. It advocates halting the downward trend and reducing the percentage of GDP, given the expenditures we are spending on defence. Here I am sure that it will stand firmly in these positions, for I myself have had twice the opportunity to accept the delegations of the generals of NATO. I have also argued that we will no longer allow the fall, and here I think it must stand firm in this position that this is the last point under which we must not go in the allocation of funds for expenditure. I am even an opinion, and I have also recommended this to her, or mentioned that we must urgently come to 1% and do everything we can to make it at least in a year, a year and a half, and then slowly forward. If that works, it'll show time. As far as the defense law is concerned, it's so necessary. She herself said at the presentation that she was aware of this, because the Defence Act of 2005 – these were minor corrections – resulted in a number of things happening in the Slovenian Army. It is said that things that are being carried out on an operational basis are not covered by law, so it is essential that we get this defence law to Parliament this year in order to ensure a two-thirds majority. In fact, after so many years, this law has been prepared in an appropriate way to cover all parts, so that no further deviations, inconsistencies and so on will occur six months after adoption. Many of the questions raised as members of the committee were answered professionally and with great determination. I must admit, she surprised me, in a positive sense, because in these parts, she never worked on the defenses. Not that, but I apologize for being a woman, far away from it, but I think she's got a good depth and learned in these few days. I am sure that everything she has presented to us, how sovereign she has answered many questions, in practice, when she takes up the ministerial office, she will also implement. So let us give her a chance, and let us not conclude in advance. Time will show whether it is part of the task that awaits or does not. In advance, it seems to me that it is not right for her not to succeed, that she is incompetent, that she does not respond, that it is not right for our colleague. But I am sure that she will try, and I eagerly hope that she will succeed. I myself wish Mrs Katič all the good, great courage and, above all, endurance. I'll back her up myself. On this occasion, however, I should like to make a few more words to the candidate for the Ministry of Education. I wish and believe her too – I have not deepened because I am not on this committee either, but after reading I hope that she too will make her work seriously, justify the trust that we will give her, and I wish her much success and all the good. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mrs Jelka Godec has the floor to prepare Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that. It is true that it is difficult to judge a person after three hours of conversation with him or after a hearing, but the hearings we have had so far and the staff of the government of Mira Cerar show that the warnings by the opposition are quite in place. And if we look at it, this government is one of the worst, or even the worst, of the shots. At the school ministry, we exchanged as many as three ministers, or now she is a third candidate. And when we warned first and second, especially Mrs Klaudija Markež, that it was not quite unprofessional, but a very bad frame, you told us that we were opposed only because it was a coalition candidate, and then it turned out to be a long way from that. Some say that if you thank God there is no minister, that there is no signature of any foolish rule or act, at least we have peace in school. I would almost agree, but it soon turns out that the Ministry of Education, and probably other ministries, are headed by some officials who write the rules in their own way, and at a time of governmentlessness, if I may say so, or without the Minister of Education, a few things went out or into public debate, and I wonder what the Minister will have to say about that. She will likely come before the fact that she can confirm or agree with these rules. I am not in the field of defence either, and I find it difficult to judge the current candidate, Mrs Katič. It does not deny work experience in the field of local self-government. We have also heard this from her presentation, and otherwise, if we read about her as a lady who worked in the local community on several functions, some public institutions. However, we have not heard a single word in the field of defence. It is difficult to confirm a candidate who has no work experience in the area he is supposed to represent as minister. This, at least for me, is the main reason that I cannot confirm Mrs Katič as Minister of Defence. I can't do it myself, I say it again, to value it differently than a man. I believe she has work experience, she's as good as you said she was here. You probably know her well, and even when I was watching her in the National Assembly, she was active. However, I say again, there are no professional grounds, at least not in the description that she would be Minister of Defence. And she's been congratulated on her courage for agreeing to this function. However, I find it difficult to agree to the position of the Mir Cerar Group of Members, in which they said in their explanation that it is high time for client needs to be put aside for the selection or selection of professional workers or professionals. So it was said that it was time for the client needs to be put aside, that the staffing had passed. In this case, you are just confirming that this is still not over, that it is being staffed, and that it is not being continued or proposed by those in the field of expertise. Otherwise, Mrs Katič will probably have less work to do, because Mr Weber said when he left that he did everything in six months. As far as education is concerned, it is a very wide area, and Dr Makovec Brenčič's candidate is one of the candidates who works in the field of education, but again she has only good knowledge or just knowledge of higher education. What disturbed me about this candidate, when she presented herself, was that she eventually went to higher education for all the answers to the questions. If we asked her about primary education, about secondary education, if we asked her about private education, about public education, we finally agreed to higher education. And if I look at the backlog of the session, I find that in her presentation she summarized the coalition contract and that her position was taken completely out of this contract. So I was disappointed at the answers I had expected from her in elementary school, high school. She emphasized the vertical connection, which she does not deny, we all know. She was stressing conversations with all of the school's stakeholders, which is not to be denied, we all know that. This is not a matter that would be for first place as a vision; this is a normal thing. Working with all the actors in education, connecting – this today should be no longer a priority, but something normal. Emphasis on apprenticeship and the importance of vocational vocational education – birds are almost chirping on the branch. And that's one of the priorities – I don't think it's one of the priorities, but it's the first thing to do. But she didn't say anything about standards and norms in education, which are the biggest stumbling block. This is the area that is avoided by anyone who's ever been to a hearing session and doesn't want to talk about it. Also not about rationalisation in primary education. She said that a number of analyses and evaluations in education were made to help. It is likely that Mr Miro Cerar, who was also the V.D. Minister twice before we received the ministers, will assist her in doing so. Indeed, Mr Cerar was on a committee in 2010 dealing with the overload of education with legal rules. He was the chairman of this commission. At the time, he was Minister Luksic. And they said that education was overloaded by legal rules, so it was necessary to phase out those rules that made it impossible or hindered the quality of the school’s work. This is therefore the main conclusion of this working group, as I said, chaired by Mr Cerar. Since 2010, Mr Cerar, who is now the Prime Minister of the Government, has been twice in D.C., having had his ministers in this area, has done nothing. And it is probably what Mrs Brenčič said that the quality of the schooling should be improved. This group has been operating for over a year, and in this year we have put money into education for such a commission. He chaired, as I said, Mr Cerar, but nothing has happened in education since 2010 in the field of legal regulation reduction. Mrs Brenčič mentioned that these are the analyses and will finally only trigger them in school. She also said nothing about academic fees to prevent those fees we read about. She simply said that everyone must be well paid for his work, which is well - done. I agree with that. However, if these fees were a good payment, if all of this was really done and all of the irregularities that were going on, nothing was answered. I think that ICT should also focus a little more on technology or the introduction of boards into schools and also respond to such things as innovative teaching projects that we carry out in Slovenia as examples of good practices. However, as I say, there was little more to say about this. I think that when it comes to quality in education, it should also be said that only children's rights, fewer duties, more parents' rights, and that, while parents should be included in schools, there should be a certain limit to normality; in certain areas, only teachers and schools must have autonomy. She also did not answer questions about how she felt about patriotism, civic education. She said she wanted to gradually implement the dual system so that we would not burden the economy and watch how we cooperate with the economy. We already have a dual system in Slovenia, but we are moving it to schools that do not have a backdrop in the economy. That's why we have, say, a dual system in schools in the area of hospitality, where there is no backside at all, so that we can do practice. So I think it's high time to do this without reintroducing things when it's already too late, as it is in the textbook area this year. But nothing was said about linking education with the Ministry of Labour. I hope that this minister will last a little longer than the previous two, already to see when the government or the ministry will finally succeed in bringing at least some substantive law into the procedure that will help improve education in Slovenia. While I wish both ministers a successful job, I hope that our criticisms have come upon fertile ground and that they have not been taken as bad, but only as good for the work ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mrs Vesna Vervega.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! With today's appointment of two ministers, namely, education, science, sport and youth and defence, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia will perform an extremely important task, since the Ministry of Education, Science, Sport and Youth is extremely important for the development of the country. We must be proud of our scientists both in the history of our Republic of Slovenia and in the current situation. We also have many recognized experts, as well as outstanding athletes, who achieve excellent results, and not least a youth who wants to succeed in his life. So, a very important area for the further development of Slovenia, so I also pointed out in the presentation of the candidate that it is necessary to allow as many people as possible to participate in the education system. I therefore also drew attention to the amendment to Article 57 of the Constitution, which we proposed in the Group of Social Democrats, and which was also signed by some other groups of Members. Because it is very important that we ensure adequate funding for public education and that we will also establish through the Constitution that private education can also be financed to the extent determined by a specific law. Indeed, we must by no means allow ourselves to get into the education situation, as we have come to say in the area of health, where we have approached this area very liberally, and today we find that we need more and more money, while at the same time finding that the waiting species in public health are getting longer. Well, this can't happen to us in school, so this constitutional change is crucial. Otherwise, the Minister did not make a very clear definition of this issue, so I expect her to further learn in this area and adopt a clear position, because her predecessor had a very clear position on this issue and supported the amendment of the Constitution. However, the second area I have pointed out in the field of education is information technology, and it is very important that we provide both science and education and for the functioning of sport and youth with appropriate information technology. Without this, science has failed to develop and many information can flow from Slovenia to abroad before the research is completed. Thus, insight into the functioning of this system is also essential for the Ministry of Education. It is therefore very important because it has also said in this area that it is not yet fully aware of the non-financial commitments made in the possible sale of Telekom. However, I have managed to stop the sale of Telekom, so that it will have time to get acquainted with this area and later to carry out this task successfully for the benefit of science, education, youth and sport. If I touch the Ministry of Defence for a moment, I would like to take a brief look. It's a ministry I understand as a small country. In one part it is responsible for the functioning of local self-government, touching all departments at the state level. The Ministry of Defence is also responsible for the implementation of international defence policy. So it's actually a small country. This is a very important hierarchy, and here I would also give an answer to Mr Mahnic, who spoke earlier about the fact that the American ambassador was not allowed to go to the Ministry of Defence. The hierarchy in this ministry is very important. The Ambassador is the highest representative of a foreign country in the Republic of Slovenia, and it is right to be accepted by the Minister of Defence if he wants to see the composition of the Slovenian Armed Forces or visit the Ministry of Defence. It is certainly not appropriate for the Ambassador to accept, say, the director of the Directorate or an even lower officer by rank. This is a very inappropriate attitude towards the highest representative of a foreign country in the Republic of Slovenia, and I have consistently implemented this part of the policy. About all the other stuff. Thank you, Mr. Mahnic, for admitting that I stopped the sale of Telekom. More on other matters at today's Defence Committee meeting, which will be immediately after the meeting of the National Assembly. In this context, I would also like to respond to Mrs Ludmila Novak's remarks. In the position of the New Slovenia Group, she spoke about the fact that I had ordered a review of Telekom's military intelligence service. Until today, they have not found out what this is about, so I have to tell her that the military intelligence service operates within the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, and the Intelligence Security Service is a civil intelligence service, which has the competence to monitor the functioning of companies that are important for the security of the Republic of Slovenia. And this part was done by the Intelligence Security Service. In all these other matters that we are talking about today, I would therefore only wish for the happy and successful work of both candidates here. I hope that the National Assembly will also do important work in this regard and help both of you to succeed in their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mrs Vesna Vervega has the floor to prepare Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Madam President. The Council of Ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! The Ministry of Education, Science and Sport is certainly one of the most important areas of operation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, especially due to the need for continued cooperation and coordination among different stakeholders. It is also difficult to find a person who is equally familiar with all levels of education. This is the area within which the most important part of our society is created and produced, which is an educated individual. This area needs appropriate guidance and measures to ensure and create development in the future. Let me mention only some of them, although they have already been mentioned today. Stable systemic funding, especially in the most acute areas such as science and research. This has been highly funded in recent years and also this year for known reasons and does not correspond to strategic national documents in this area. The professional development of teaching workers and the quality of guidance on the entire educational vertical will undoubtedly contribute to the promotion of autonomy and the reputation of educators, teachers and better organisation of educational work. Then changes to the statutory law in the field of primary, secondary and higher education, which requires quality and accessible public education for all, must not be disregarded. I am thinking of private schools, which are complementary to quality public education. Furthermore, linking educational institutions with the wider local environment and the economy, which must result in the establishment and progressive introduction of apprenticeship models. The candidate for the Minister of the Ministry recognised these measures as priorities and should therefore be given the opportunity and support. Finally, let me express my support for the candidate for the Minister of Defence, who has shown excellent readiness to lead the defence area, whose main objective must be effective human, national and international security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Breznik has the floor to prepare Mr Matjaž Germany.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u60	Mr Vice-President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'll try to surprise you today. I'll be very brief. First of all, as far as the Minister of Education is concerned. Personally, I don't know her. I'm not the kind of person who would throw a pollen under someone who hasn't started yet. But I'm only warning you on something. In Latin, they call Tempus fugit. Time is running. One year will be slowly around since this government was established, but it is not yet perfect. What I saw in one of the Prime Minister's statements, perhaps a little unhappy, was at this last stage, after the last affair, that the ministers were fine, that they were decent, and that they even had a diploma that was not supposed to be forged. So these are some new standards. It is necessary for someone to have a degree that is good, and this is already a condition enough for you to be able to take up the role of minister of one of the important institutions, as you, your colleague and your fellow student who is an education. This is one of the travels that I think you can get the most out of your life. The old people in the Slovenian Gore once spoke twice in your life you can make a mistake; the first is to decide the wrong profession and the second, to choose the wrong partner. You have to make a lot of decisions when you're young when you don't have experience. I was lucky to know at kindergarten which profession I'd decide on. But I'll say something else about my partner in the coming years. What am I trying to say? I would like to say that unfortunately, the Prime Minister has done the biggest bear service to both candidates with this statement. That's why I won't throw pollen under my feet. At the Ministry of Defense, I think you said I worked 14 years in this system myself, and I can tell you that I know him from the first soldier to the General Staff. I know all the units, both here and those abroad. I know most of the senior officers, including officers, soldiers who are years and years in the system. Interestingly, colleague Weber is now teaching us how civil and military intelligence services work. Comrade Webber, look, I've told you many times, and you haven't answered me. You have a professional service at the Ministry of Defence dealing with relationships, a strategy of relationships – I acted for a while myself – and this could give you instructions as to whether or not we depend on Telekom. What I'm trying to say is that I hope that after one year of celebrating the first anniversary of the government, this team will be perfect so that you can start some serious reforms in this country. Because we're still in some waves that carry us like a ship on some open sea, and we haven't done anything. Right now, this ship is floating in some kind of sonic near the coast, we're talking about economic growth. So we can say that we are not the builders of this country's destiny. And that's what's important about politics. The essence of politics is to decide, with the greatest knowledge, competences and everything else. I therefore hope that these two candidates, one for the Minister of Education, the other for the Minister of Defence of this country, will also demonstrate competences that we know relatively little about. On the one hand, the Minister of Education only has knowledge from the university or higher education system, and as we know, the system is large, very extensive. However, the Minister of Defence is good and even has a higher education. That's all I can say about both candidates for the secretary. So much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Germany has the floor to prepare Mrs Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, chairman. I'll start with something nice. Indeed, I am very pleased that we will have a ministerial team where gender equality will in some way be equal. I am pleased because we show not only to our people but also to the outside that we are all the same and that we respect knowledge above all. I also welcome the initiative of the candidates to accept this important challenge from important sources; we are talking about education, science and sport and the Ministry of Defence. I'll touch the Ministry of Education first. I think the candidate, Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič, is well known to all of us. The lady works in professional educational circles. I am pleased that, unlike previous ministers or candidates, since the time of Dr. Pikala, we will have someone who also has a sense of sport, which has always been an unfortunate combination, in my personal opinion, of comparing sport in some way with education. But, well, it's important to find the right frame, and I think that candidate Mrs Makovec Brenčič is. I've followed her several times, and I also know she's working with the Olympic Committee. So she will also have a very important attitude towards sport, which is very important under the circumstances. I'm going to touch a colleague with whom I've shared my parliamentary benches for months. I have an extremely good opinion on her. I must say that with mixed feelings I am following her appointment because I will lose a very good colleague, very loyal to my work and my principles. On the other hand, I want these principles to be passed on to the Ministry of Defence, which is not only important in terms of defence or defence. Above all, I think it is an important aspect of protection for our people against natural and other disasters. We know that our people are counting on the help of the military when this help is most needed. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u63	Please! Here you go, Mr. German.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Today, I have heard many things in the debates, including the mixing of diplomacy, the military, foreign policy. In a way, that's true. Europe is in the grip of violence. We all know that one of the next steps in which Slovenia will be involved is the integration and acceptance of refugees and the involvement of the defence ministry in this process. We know that the predecessor, a colleague sitting in front of me, Janko Weber was very successful in finding synergies between the military, the utility of the military, in how we can implement the army into everyday life. For example, falcon was also used to transfer organs. Ship Triglav will travel south of Italy within a few months. The Slovenian army will have the opportunity to express its humanitarian aspect in supporting the refugees coming from these hotspots. Someone's already mentioned, these conflicts are closing in on us. I'm talking about Macedonia, I'm talking about Bosnia. It is very important to be diplomatic, very sober during this period, including in relation to the conflict between Russia and Ukraine mentioned today. Let me just say this because someone has asked the Minister not to cooperate with certain countries, that these are the countries that are visiting the greatest leaders of this world these days. So I am just stressing the importance of being diplomatic at these moments and making very weighty decisions. I wish you both great luck. I believe this will be the case. They're both experts in their field. I believe that colleague Andrej Katič will make up very quickly for her defence skills. We all know her as an extremely diligent, successful woman, ma'am. And I believe both of you will come from this story as such. I will support both of them, and I wish them great happiness and success. Like the entire Group of Social Democrats, I will support both. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mrs Violeta Tomić has the floor to prepare Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u66	Dear Vice-President, distinguished members of the ministries and respected colleagues and colleagues! As has already been made clear in the position of the Joint Left Group, we will not support proposals for ministers, although I am in principle very fond of representing women in positions of responsibility and importance. But it's not about sex, it's not about women or men. The question is what policies of this woman in high places are advocated and implemented. After all, Angela Merkel is also a woman. Let me just comment on some of the starting points that we were able to hear in the debate. Many times it has been mentioned how important and vital resources we are discussing today. I can agree with that. In the United Left, we have often opened up themes for the development of primary education, science and higher education. Government budget cuts, however, are all the more so than in line with the talk of importance and vitality that we have heard mainly from the government coalition. On the contrary, it is the demolition of public education and support for private interests in different forms, on the one hand through the so-called integration with the economy, which means subordinated higher education to the interests of capital and, on the other hand, through the wide opening of the door to the establishment of private schools. This is not only about higher education, which is clearly well known by the Minister's candidate. She said very few words about primary education, where we see very clearly many negative trends that threaten the quality of public education. Signs of poverty and other inequalities are increasingly evident in primary schools. One of the key tasks of the school system is to mitigate these inequalities, allowing for development opportunities for all, but not to increase or even cause this difference in the school system. This is not just a dark distant future, it is already happening among our children. In recent years, we have been monitoring a drastic decline in quality public education and the strengthening of private interests. In the United Left, we advocate a clear distinction between public and private education, with public funds being allocated to public education and private education. Thus, with all the known savings on already too low public school funds, private interest is parasitic. Only quality and accessible public education is a guarantee of quality education, which will depend solely on the individual’s talent, and certainly not on the wealth and social status of children and adolescents and their parents. This is totally unacceptable to us. The other thing that will be in her eyes is that she will replace Stanko Setnikar Cankar, which was carried away by the heavy fees she received in addition to her regular salary. The current candidate is also not far from what has been reported to her predecessor, so we ask ourselves about the criteria for both discharge and the appointment of ministers. A few more words about defense. Terrorism and crisis hotspots have been mentioned several times to threaten the safety of the population in Slovenia. But this is just a matter of arousing fears. The greatest threat to world peace today is NATO. We see this clearly in Ukraine and elsewhere, where they do not solve the situation through their aggressive approaches, but exacerbate the situation. Even if I leave aside moral reservations to NATO because of its neo-imperialist role, it is clear that the Slovenian Army only carries out military-order operations abroad. NATO's demands towards Slovenia are a major financial asset, but they will not contribute to the country's own defence capabilities, so even NATO's great advocates should consider this. Therefore, I believe that an expensive professional army, which cannot defend its own territory or participate creatively in natural disasters, should be replaced by an army based on the reserve composition and self-defence capacity of the population, which is completely neglected for us, although this works well, for example, in Switzerland, to which we like to compare ourselves very much, and in Norway and Austria, where they do not understand their membership in the European Union in any way as a necessary membership in relation to NATO. The Constitution states that security policy is based on peace and non-violence, and we are now looking at interference in the internal affairs of countries, guided by different interests. They train paramilitary units and supply weapons. We would like our soldiers to deal with our affairs, not support the imperialism of the greats against the small sovereign nations. I don't want to be too long. Today we get two new ministers to the government of Mira Cerar, and the exchange takes place like a running lane. But these new faces bring nothing new. They bring only more and more old ones, bring the status quo, bring the neoliberal doctrine that takes us to the periphery and underdevelopment. We hope that both candidates will do as much as possible not to do so, but in view of the government's current path, which mainly dealt with the sale of property – some call it privatisation, but if a foreign state company buys a Slovenian state company, you cannot call it privatisation, that is, the sale – we are afraid that these hopes are only our humble, that I do not say a godly desire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor to prepare Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, other representatives and representatives of the Government, dear colleagues and colleagues! The President of the National Assembly had a happy hand when he chose today, 13 May, for the day when we will inaugurate the two ministers of the current government. Why am I talking about this date, May 13th? Mary Theresa was born in 1717. Why am I talking about Maria Teresa? Why do I remember this ruler of the Habsburg lands? Because she was a reformer. That's why. And in a way, I want the new Slovenian government ministers to finally start reforms in this Slovenian country. So I want to leave behind a positive trail to remain indelible rates that will serve the present and future generations well. You know reformer Maria Teresa from high school history. She's reformed her education. In its time, more precisely on Miklavszevo in 1774, we received a compulsory primary school, which we still have today. She has also reformed the military, and today the coalition will infuse the Minister of Education and also the Minister of Defence. Maria Theresa reformed the army by doubling the number of men in the Austrian army. Moreover, it reformed the tax system and developed a strong economy in its time. That is why its reforms are still ongoing today, almost 300 years after its birth. That is why I would like Mrs Andreja Katič, our distinguished fellow Member, to take as an example this very ruler of the Habsburg countries, and perhaps in terms of patriotism or patriotism, General Rudolf Maister. I would also like a distinguished candidate who has not yet been able to meet personally, Prof. Maja Makovec Brenčič, to receive sufficient political support in the government, because we need fundamental reforms in the school system. If there are none, then unfortunately, let the candidate forgive me, too, her ministry, no matter how long it takes, just some cosmetics in Slovenian politics. I would like to place an area on her heart for which she will be responsible, and today we treat him as a stepmother. This is a digital society or a digital economy. The Republic of Slovenia has been comparatively declining over a decade and a half following the development of the information society, which undoubtedly has a negative impact on other development areas. The problem is due to substantial underinvestment in the development of the information society and to a lack of general awareness of the importance of information and communication technologies and the Internet for the development of the economy, the country and society as a whole. European competitors have invested more and more systematically all this time, which is reflected in faster development progress than we were able to make in the Republic of Slovenia. By misusing ICT and the Internet in development efforts, we as a company give up the development potential offered by ICT and the Internet. If we do not break this practice, and without delay, there will continue to be a developmental backlog for those countries which give these areas the highest priority. A successful European digital economy is one of the foundations for growth and employment in the European Union and also in the Republic of Slovenia. It is also crucial for the modernisation of the traditional industry. Since technology is ahead of regulation, we need to focus on initiatives that will eliminate legal fragmentation and allow businesses across the European market to take advantage of the benefits given to consumers by a wider choice. In this regard, we want the rules of the classic, if you want, offline business environment to be translated into rules for the digital economy, if you want, for the online business world. Good luck to you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has the floor to prepare Mrs Eva Irgl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. About a year before the elections, the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr Miro Cerar, stated that politics needed freshness and that it would clean up all the trouble that had accumulated. As for the freshness, the matter was obviously taken so seriously that virtually at no meeting of the National Assembly we have not seen the same team, we always see fresh faces. As for cleaning up the indisposition, it seems to me that he has the biggest problems right around him. And if I use his pictured vocabulary, he causes stress on his own, but he cleans it very selectively, even though it smells the same or even more. In 2010, when he was in a different role and he had not yet gone into politics, he was appalled at the individual statements made by Members in this National Assembly and warned that all of this was going to an international space, which hinders the sighting of Slovenia. But the fact that the government has more flying trades than a hockey team, as one of the Twitterists put it, of course, is not a problem. Well, that's the problem. What a problem! Finally, we are talking about the operational issue of this government, and Slovenia must certainly not afford such manoeuvres. I will give a little more attention to the Ministry of Defence, which is certainly a specific area, and it is very important that you should not be able to afford such matters as the ones that Minister SD has afforded during this period. Finally, it is a very irresponsible attitude towards citizens who said in one of the major public surveys that they trusted the Slovenian Army. I think that this is how we move away from this and I fear that this resource will also be given the lowest confidence of our citizens. In short, I think that the fact that the portfolio remains in the hands of the SD is a major problem, even because of the fact that everything has happened. Let me remind you of some of the things that have been going on about this breakdown of the coalition SD – which does not mean that the President of the Government has been washed up with it – about what this means and what we can talk about in this department. The change of head of the Slovenian Army – until this change in Bozič was also critical for the president of the country. Last time you did that, you literally did it on a chorus. The agenda item was not included either at the government's meeting, then you placed it afterwards. The fact that it was a completely reckless move also suggests that the new head of the Slovenian Army is practically new and is already in retirement in one year. Where is the continuity of the work that is still important to this area? Then you afforded, fellow SDs, to politicize the Intelligence Service. You were literally installing an active SD frame. And finally, you took advantage of it, which resulted in the Minister's change. But the consequences, you know, are a lot broader, too, that you have destroyed this service, that it is not trusted, and that it is now ready for new harmful developments. And it will be in your hands again. Finally, the problem for me is that, at the hearing, the Minister's candidate stated that she doubts the illegality of her colleague's activities. So I ask Mr Cerar, because the candidate would obviously do the same thing if the candidate was suitable. But it's obviously also about double standards. The scandals in our love the Slovenian Army, which truly marks a great reputation among citizens, are in line. There has been quite a bit of talk about controversial advances. What about military uniforms? We don't hear anything about that. There are millions of people in uniforms that are dangerous, which are not only dangerous when you wear them, but especially when it comes to fighting. That's the problem. We're talking about looking at you, talking about our soldiers walking around torn and torn apart, and there's not even a river here where there's no, the army doesn't even count anymore. Shame! And when you look at the matter in a little bit more detail, you can see that here, very interestingly, there's a circle, when you see what kind of company this is that has such power that nothing happens to it, despite the fact that the country sells the uniforms that are problematic for millions of dollars. I wonder where you're going if you're going to look online. And finally, millions of dollars worth of compensation — has anyone talked about it? Because the Minister could not agree with the Slovenian Army on their stay abroad, on a day off and so on, the first indemnity decision fell. Seven thousand euros, and there are hundreds of these soldiers. Do you even know what amounts we are talking about? And it's all under the auspices of the SD. Last but not least, when you're all talking so well, where do you see a Slovenian soldier? The Slovenian soldier is socially at risk, literally on support, going to work in the afternoon abroad to survive. It's a reality. And the fact that I wish a great deal of happiness today to a candidate for a minister doesn't make any difference, because this happiness is certainly not going to do her any good. Above all, it is important to find solutions and that this whole team imagines itself a little and that it actually starts working for the good of Slovenia. And just a sentence about the candidate for the Minister of Education. I won't lose words until the lady explains her fees. I don't think I can even discuss this and I can't take this candidacy seriously. After all, that's exactly what took her predecessor out of the picture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor to prepare Mr Marko Ferluga.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Key indicators indicating the state of the country are as follows. If we look at unemployment from April 2015, the number is 114 000 923 registered unemployed people. If we look at public debt, then we see that the country's total public debt is 30.1 billion euros, and this year it is forecast to reach 31.4 billion euros, or 81.6% of GDP, or what we create. This means that in all these years, in particular the left governments, in particular the last governments, the Pahor government and the government of Alenka Bratušek, we have spent excessively and irrationally on current consumption rather than investing in investments at the time. A very important information, which also provides a very visual picture of the situation and the poor economic and social situation, is the number of bankruptcys and forced settlement of companies. Before you interrupt me, why I am talking about this, let me remind you that I will explain later why the situation in the current situation is essential for today's debate on ministers as well. If we look, in 2009, we had initial bankruptcys of 332, in 2010 510, in 2011 675, in 2013 already 941, and in 2014 we had a thousand 302. These are clearly disturbing data. If we look at the ranking of Slovenia on the global competitiveness scale, we can see that we were 62nd in 2013, but now we have fallen eight cities and we are 70th. If we look away from social and economic indicators on justice, which we are warning all the time, we can see that we have very low confidence in the justice system in Slovenia. The European Commission also says that we are placed in an extremely poor 24th place. In view of this information, which I have presented quickly, that we know exactly what the key situation is in the country, it is necessary to say that, in such a serious situation, the state needs, in the first place, a whole government, but it does not. Within eight months, I believe that there was virtually no month or week for the government to be fully and fully operational. In such difficult situations, we need an operational government, and it is not operational. My colleagues already mentioned it. Only if we look at the youth portfolio, not one matter under the coalition contract has been realized yet. The government should be strong too, and we're a long way from that. Now, as we can see, we have ministers in positions who can't even get some corrupt state prosecutor to leave. We've had great problems finding ministers all the time, but instead of being effective, instead of doing reforms, this government deals solely with two things. First, alone and secondly, eight months with the mandate of Janez Janša. These are the key problems of this government and this coalition, although I know that the voters in the early elections are precisely because they felt that something would change, so many of the votes of the Modern Centre's Parties have been devoted. But unfortunately, this dream broke out extremely quickly as we entered these halls. For the first time, we have been having extremely serious problems with the search for ministers on the human resources of the Mir Cerar Party. I specifically told the Mir Cerar Party because then this party was renamed the Modern Centre Party, which apparently did not pay much off on the staff. Secondly, the fact that we are constantly looking for ministers also points to the inability of the President of the Government to put in politics such responsible positions as the Minister, to propose capable, competent people. Instead, we are dealing with regular affairs, and these affairs are the most common in the case of the party that referred to higher ethical standards in the elections. So today we have two candidates for the minister. One will cover the area of defense, the other will shape the school policy. When we look at the defence department, we know that it's a state-of-the-art resource, one of the state-of-the-art resources, and that's why it requires some special treatment. But when we talk about another, i.e. the school district, we must say that it is an extremely demanding, difficult resort, and there must be a minister on such a resource who proposes measures that have the power to execute them that do not work ideologically. This is essential in particular because we live in a country that is very fragmented. It is said that he does not act ideologically and that he acts professionally and responsibly. Whether this is how it's gonna be with the new secretary, we'll see if we can give her a chance. But the Minister of Education is likely to become Minister after Mrs Stanka Setnikar Cankar has resigned from her post because of her excellent fees. She earned 600 thousand euros in addition to her regular salary. Mr Miro Cerar, Prime Minister of the Government, EUR 300,000 in addition to the regular salary. A similar story is with the future Minister of Education, and that is why she did not want to speak or identify herself at the hearing. The Minister of Defence will take her place in place of the retired Mr Janko Vebra, who has left because he has violated the law. But Minister Klemenčič, who has violated more laws, eight laws, several regulations, even the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, remains in his position. These are certainly two criteria, as illustrated by the Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Miro Cerar, as well as by the coalition. Otherwise, personally, I want a successful job for both candidates. My colleague, Mrs Katič, will not have much of it anyway, given that her predecessor, as he said, has done his job, which he would otherwise have done for four years in this term, within six months. So I hope that Mrs Katič will have something to do at the Ministry of Defence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Ferluga has the floor to prepare Mr Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to the Minister, the other government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! The predecessors listed some pretty things. I take it as a fact that we can't run away from. The fact is, we're trying to get things through, but at some point we're doing it, at some point we're not doing it. The facts are just the way they are. Mrs Brenčič, as far as I have information, is said to have published her fees in public, so let me check, Mrs Bah. I will not comment on the matter of Minister Brenčič because I do not know her, her work and her presentation. That is why I would prefer to refer to the candidate, Mrs Katič, and I think that the new Minister of Defence as well. It is clear to all of us that these functions are political functions, and we cannot escape them. Self - praise and self - writing to these people at this time is inappropriate and unnecessary, for we do not really know how they will be cut off in their position. The candidate must clearly make his own way at the Ministry, show up with his work and also with his relationship. It is clear that this ministry is extremely difficult, as has been said before, to be state-owned, even male-oriented, which is also an important factor. And another factor is that we must not forget — it is quite politicized, both on the one hand and on the other. This morning's meeting of the Defence Committee has shown how strong this policy can be and how it paved its way into the military structure, that there are contradictions at the General Staff, that they do not recognize the merit of this or one party. This harms not only the Ministry of Defence, but it damages the reputation of the military, the officers and everyone else who is there. It's washing dirty laundry, it looks like a Slovenian folklore, and I don't think it leads to any constructive posture, not even in a ministry like this. As far as Mrs Katič is concerned, I see two great tasks to be done with her. The first is the funding arrangement. It is clear that government finances are still in very difficult shape. In this financial regulation, I think that the funding structure needs to be changed, or this trend must be reversed – without the majority, 80%, the salary budget and only 3% for investments, but to turn it into some normal, smart way. The other thing that is very important and also probably a very difficult and difficult function is that it is trying to get this unfortunate policy out of the military, to really deal with the professional and professional relationship there, which will undoubtedly be difficult. Many observations were also made regarding the fact that it does not come from defence-military structures. Maybe that's not bad. Maybe it's not bad enough that it comes in some neutral way and tries to make some changes, maybe with a woman's sense, an intuition that has a connective or maternal way, whatever we call it. That in some new way he tries and has the opportunity to make some new vision of the military, that it is a little different than it has ever been in this man's structure. Finally, I would like to say that I listened to her on the Defence Committee when she had her hearing, and I must say that she acted extremely sovereign and that she was also well prepared. But I really hope that she can continue her journey in the ministry as planned and that there will not be any big politicisation as said [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Bachič has the floor to prepare Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, They presented an extremely good and quality vision of their future work at the Ministry. I expect that they will also internalise this and put it into practice. You will be entrusted with very difficult tasks, as they will take on an extremely wide, sensitive and challenging area, which also needs reforms and reforms. I expect that, in addition to their expertise and high authority, they will also be able to provide sufficient sensitivity, sensitivity and warmth to all those who will be in charge of them, as well as to those whom they will have to take care of. I will be very pleased if the new Defence Minister, our Andreja, is to be proud of his army and of all those who wear military uniforms and who honorably and conscientiously represent our country on various missions abroad and always come to the aid of people in the face of natural and other disasters. Although there is never enough financial resources in the military budget, I hope that the new minister will be able to ensure that the soldiers have adequate care, equipment and human life. At the same time, we will miss our fellow Members very much, and we are proud that we will have a capable, reasonable, prudent and decisive minister who will not bow down to problems, but who will courageously solve them. Good luck, Andrea. Ms Maja Makovec Brenčič, Minister of Education, said very little in her presentation about primary education, secondary education, almost nothing about children with special needs. It is clear, however, that it comes from academic backgrounds and knows higher and higher education better, but I expect the Minister of Education, as a minister, to support effective education of children with special needs for whole verticals, from kindergartens to university, and to support the development of an inclusive school and individualisation and differentiation of the educational process, which is a condition for the establishment of a 21st century school. I would also like you, Minister, to maintain the quality of public education despite the commitment expressed to private education; the financing of private education must by no means be at the expense of public education. Both candidates have my support, and I wish you every success in your new job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u77	Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u78	Thank you very much. I have 47 seconds, but you'll give me one minute, because you're Prime Minister Two. Look, I'll say it. Mrs. Katič, it's hard for me to say anything at this time. Three years ago, when I was invited to another government myself, I thought about it for a long time before I said yes, and there was 30 years of experience in the police. Congrats for courage — not for content, for courage. Otherwise, coalition, you tell me once where the limit is, how much you can make on the side. If the Prime Minister has earned 350 thousand euros, Mrs. Cankar 670 and the candidate 175, where is the limit so you can be Minister? Tell me where the border is. What else can I say? Congratulations to the experts of the Coalition for Emotional and Heart - Reaching Talks and to Members for Current Reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u79	Mr Roberto Battelli has the floor to prepare Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u80	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I would like to stay a little longer at one point, which has already been highlighted by Dr Göncz in his presentation on behalf of the parliamentary group on the education department, and this is a human resources problem. Since the post-war agreements, the Republic of Slovenia has a strong commitment in the sense that personnel who control the learning language are formed. Throughout all these decades, there has been no realisation, design, and development of any mechanism for the creation of human resources to control the learning language. At times, it was formally covered because of the so-called educational academy in the Italian language in Pula. There has never been anything like this in Slovenia, and no one cares that it exists. The situation in Italian language schools is such that principals are forced to recruit teachers or professional workers, depending on what is available, and it happens that they have to complement these empty places with people who do not want to devalue anyone and so on; however, they can be well-educated people who have only one course in language and confirm that they know a few Italian languages. [[...]] If this is perpetuated, there will be such a degeneration of the situation which, on the basis of questions, puts the existence of these schools in the Italian learning language at all. For those who have difficulty understanding this: the public can imagine what it would be like if there were no teachers in schools with Slovenian learning language in Italy who knew Slovenian as a learning language. So teachers need to be able to learn in this language. That's what this is about. Even so, many teachers who work in schools with Italian language want this training in Slovenian language and so on. And there are such absurd situations. I'm saying, if this goes on as it shouldn't have been, it used to be a constitutional obligation to create personnel. [[...]] So, if that's not the case, then it makes no sense that we have schools with Italian learning language. Last but not least, given the fact that the Italian national community cannot use its language freely because there is no access to bilingual procedures at any stage of administration – this is not and this is already the fifth government, and this is where this situation is being improved. Thus, if there is no access to procedures in the language of the national community, if there is no training of teachers in the Italian language, the existing 23rd Article of the Law on the Special Rights of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities in the Field of Education and Education, according to the domestic so-called ZPIMVI – if there are no such basic issues, then you can imagine how we can imagine our future. We just can't afford it. All this upgrading of representations – we have societies and representations, we do not manage anything, nor those matters that are closest to our identities and our raison d'être. It's actually a condition. And the interesting thing is, the public doesn't know anything about it. It is also interesting that the public knows nothing about the progress that has finally been made with regard to the situation of the Slovenian national community in Italy. Covering up these two things, so nothing about not doing things here, and nothing about making progress there, leads me to the fact that there is a policy here at work, whether there is a desire or unwillingness, that would lead the Italian and Hungarian national communities as soon as possible to a sweet end, to some euthanasia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u81	The word is Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u82	President, thank you very much for your word. In the United Left, we are unconditionally advocating public, accessible and free education for all. At this point, the socialists are at odds with virtually all parliamentary parties. The coalition and occasionally the right may still advocate a free public school in the word, but in practice they do the exact opposite, not occasionally, but consistently. Thus, the Government continues its policy of belt tightening, with the active participation of privileged academic elites and other sheriffs in education. Exactly with these policies of belt tightening, public education is increasingly and more at the forefront of the market and more and more into the hands of some commercial logic. Maja Makovec Brenčič, our future Minister of Education, appears to be signing under exactly such policies in her views. He may still be moving his head over school savings if we ask him directly – I think we witnessed some such response at her hearing on the committee – but at the same time in practice he is quite enthusiastic about the irrational policies of the balanced budget. However, the exact logic of the balanced budget is that in some macro-picture it justifies the policy of cuttings into public consumption. If I substantiate this with a quote from her hearing or from her hearing report: "The SHUJF applies to the whole space and measures are needed to balance the public budget and accelerate GDP growth and to provide a better perspective for the development of the school area." Maja Makovec Brenčič is a short-lived neoliberal neoliberal, just like the militant neoliberal whole government and the entire government coalition. That's what this quote confirms. And budget butcher Dusan Maramor is no doubt impressed by the choice of future Minister of Education. While education can remain public, accessible and free to all, this does not mean that it will actually serve one of its civil tasks, specifically by educating citizens and citizens and expanding their life horizon as a goal and value on its own. Public education can also be an instrument to increase inequalities and service certain interests that are not public interests at the same time. We have seen such policies very concretely and very painfully over the past few years. They were probably most obviously called to life at the formal level of the Golobic Resolution, a resolution on the national programme in higher education. The logic of subjugating education to the economy is followed by the current government with Mir Cerar at the helm and all the governments that have come before it. What's more, the current government is even bragging about it. Without being embarrassed by these attitudes, no — still exposes them, says that this is the way into development, that it is the way into the future. The new Minister of Education also insists on the view that education must be transformed into a support pillar of private capital, and he thinks as a socialist, as a Member of the United Left it is totally, totally unacceptable. Even at today's meeting of the National Assembly, we were able to hear similar nonsense that went on in this same paradigm, which shows that in fact we have a very solid non-liberal coalition in the National Assembly, ranging from SD on one side to NSI on the other, with all the parties involved. In particular, we have heard this from one debate that young people today have to take on four to five professions, not because they want to, but because they are such needs of the economy. Nobody cares what they want or need young people, some economic needs are important. The statements that young people need to submit to the needs of the economy really support the brutal exploitation and chastity that we are witnessing today. We're talking about an increasing number of espionage, we're talking about copyright contracts, and we're talking about other tranq forms of employment that don't allow people to develop, they don't allow humans to create a family, they don't allow humans to create a roof over their heads. Why? Because the needs of the economy are such. I would like to stress once and for all: the needs of the economy are not people's needs, but they are the needs of the economy to profit managers and capital owners. Adaptation and inaucuracy of that main social objective of the economy’s needs means that the employees are only drunk and squandered so that the profits of the privileged sandstones in the economy are as high as possible. As a socialist, I strongly oppose this, starting with precaration in the labour market. Penetrating forms of work should be discontinued. It is high time to say this out loud to stop talking about how the labour market should continue to be flexible. On the contrary, we need to do so, and we need to abolish the criminal forms of employment. The same is true of the same logic that translates education. What is an education that does not serve people but serves corporations, and with public money? Such education can, in fact, be fair, produce only idiots, but not a better, better future for the whole society and some of the citizens who are educated. And so, in practice, they advocate virtually all parties, advocates the coalition, advocates the government, and last but not least advocates the future Minister of Education. It is also supposed to be an education and education system that is not entirely subordinate to capital, one which is responsible for a huge gap between the needs of the economy and during education. It's like education is responsible for unemployment. No, it's not. If the economy in this country were organised to serve the needs of people, but not the need for a privileged handful, there would be no unemployment. Let's just think about it, I'm giving you this thought, in this national council probably for the 15th time in a row. If we have a thousand job vacancies and 120 thousand job seekers, that means that we could have 120 thousand top experts, but only a thousand of these top-notch experts would get a job, even if all 120 thousand are not terribly employable, I don't know how much use it is for the economy. Unemployment is not the fault and responsibility of education. Unemployment is the fault of the economy. If I am more precise, unemployment is the fault of Slovenian peripheral capitalism and the policies of all governments that serve this peripheral capitalism instead of reshaping the economy and ripping it out of some global subordination to capital metropolises. Such an economy would mean that value, knowledge and development remain at home and serve the needs of people. Well, look, this thought, this policy I express as a socialist, but my point is not really socialist. This point remains within the horizons of capitalism. In fact, I am only talking about how to dig from the position of the periphery into some perspective in the context of capitalism. Just that, nothing is my ambition in this debate anymore. Think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u83	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. Please sign up. Each debater shall have five minutes. The first one is mag. Alexander Kavčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u84	Dear President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear representatives and representatives of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The President of the Government is 29. 4. appointed Mr Andreja Katič as Minister of Defence and Prof. Maja Makovec Brenčič as Minister of Education, Science and Sport. Both candidates successfully presented themselves before the parental committees. With this, they accept key and challenging ministries in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia after confirmation in the National Assembly. Andreja Katič in the past acted as director of the municipal administration, where she also worked on projects for which the municipality obtained grants. As a result, he has extensive organizational experience. In her presentation, she also highlighted, among other things, ensuring the appropriate response of the Slovenian Armed Forces and halting the decline in employment trends, which is of crucial importance. Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič is an excellent knowledgeer of the quality system and is also a member of important domestic and international institutions, which will certainly be a positive note of its operation. In her presentation, she also touched on the areas of development of different forms of integration with the economy, from the introduction of apprenticeships to pilot cases of dual system development both in vocational, vocational and higher education. In the SMC Group, we highlight two fundamental aspects of appropriateness, namely the substantive comprehensive knowledge of the area of work, which includes, in particular, knowledge, problem-solving and problem-recognition, and the ability to learn from past bad experiences, and the personality attitude reflected through professional and patient relations, the search for compromises and the search for ways to ensure transparent management of resources. These two fundamental aspects of adequacy of both the proposed candidates also have. That is why I will support the proposal of the President of the Government, who proposes the Deputy President of the National Assembly as Minister of Defence and now the Ambassador's colleague, Andrejo Katič, and the Director of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Prof. Majo Makovec Brenčič, and I wish them all the best in the performance of these important functions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u85	Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u86	Thank you very much. I've run out of time before. You didn't give me anything, either, so now in those five minutes. [[...]] I have previously touched Mrs Katič as a candidate for the Secretary of Defense. But if I went beyond that context, it would suggest saying one another. As a first observation, all governments have problems with ministers since 1991 and from that period to today. At least the first Janša government had them, in which, at least in my memory, we replaced three ministers, and that was all. Besides, she lasted four years. Every successive government, in particular the last two, has problems with ministers. But I think we have more problems in this area. In fact, we are able when the Minister becomes the one who wants to and not the one who is most competent. That's such a general conclusion. But I'm sure there's a number of reasons why this happened. Simply because we are also submissive – as a few years-old member of this national assembly who will no longer run for office – I will tell you directly how I feel about this. We are alone in the National Assembly, in politics brought into such a situation that there are problems with ministers in the country and that ministers are those who want to say I have no plagiarism, and I have a good certificate, and I have not falsified it. And then with the press, it's over and you become a minister. Not to become the minister who's the most competent. That's a big problem. This is a major problem arising from the way it works in this country. This is also a major problem because we all leave ourselves to all those who are rousing us out there – I think mainly of the journalists and the public – and who are telling us that Members are judging the minimum, and perhaps the ministers are doing nothing, and they are inviting us to not know what prize games out there and then they make fun of it all. After all, why become a minister? Is it materially appealing? Ladies and gentlemen, there isn't. Is there another reason for this? Especially those ministers, as will Mrs. Katič, who have some bodies in their system, such as the police and the military and so on, including the judiciary, including the justice minister, and many others – yes, what authority do they have? Let me know what kind of authority the minister has. Even if you look at someone in the hallway, it's a political influence on them. Isn't that right? The political influence is then this. So I think we will be able to make a real decision in the country once and for all and take some serious action in this area so that we can get the Minister to become the one who is most competent to run the ministry and not the one who wants it and who has not forged the diploma or bought some diplomas, doctorate or anything. But inside the coalition, maybe even what I used to be is true. Look, I don't understand this situation. Where is the limit, how much could anyone have earned to be a minister's candidate? Tell me why Cankar's gone and why Mr. Cerar stayed. What's the difference between them? One got 670 and one got 350 thousand. And a candidate of 175 thousand euros. Why is she now the one who got 175 grand next to her salary in college at the time? Why isn't the former Minister suitable? Where's the border, tell me. I'm a college teacher too, and I'd like to know where the limit is, how much you can make. I certainly don't belong to this kind of earner, because at the annual level, I get about 2,000, except that I'm not even employed there. But these criteria you're setting are pretty double criteria because there's no limit. Besides, today's debate. If our proposals for constitutional amendments were ever adopted, they would not be necessary. Because you read here — most of them, not all — some talk written in advance. Just that you're all on TV to be seen. The Prime Minister of the Government could also appoint ministers if such constitutional amendments were adopted once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u87	This concludes the debate. The vote on the list of candidates for ministers will be held in the framework of the vote starting at 17.35. I interrupt this item on the agenda and also the 13th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which we will continue with the votes, as I said before, at 17.35.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u88	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the votes of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their member states on one side and the Republic of Moldova on the other. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u89	Thank you for saying so, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Ministerial Assembly, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Foreign Policy is at its 21st session. 5. 2015, this today, the proposal for a law on the ratification of the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Moldova, of the other part, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration. On the one hand, Bogdan Benko, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, submitted a joint explanation for the Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and Georgia, of the other part, for the Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the other part, and for Ukraine. First, he explained the dictatorship in the title of nuclear energy agreements, which does not mean nuclear cooperation, but stems from the historical extension of the designation of cooperation agreements. He stressed that it was a new generation of cooperation agreements with the Eastern Partnership countries focusing on democratic values, the rule of law, transparency of procedures, with the political part mainly covered by the establishment of several forums and cooperation platforms being built up with up-to-date institutional cooperation, and above all, it is important to build up legislation in the field of economic cooperation. He stressed that special attention was paid in the agreement to the areas of ensuring rights, freedom and security, mainly from the point of view of migration and the movement of people, which could lead to progressive measures to establish a visa-free regime. He went on to say that most of the agreements relate to large-scale sectoral cooperation and that a substantial part is devoted to the provisions of the free trade agreement. The agreements also provide for the approximation of the laws, standards and standards of those countries to the standards and standards of the European Union, allowing the countries with which the agreement is signed to enter the internal market of the European Union and vice versa. Finally, he drew attention to the specifics, namely that the agreement between the European Union and Ukraine does not enter into force until 1 January 2016, as reservations were made by the Russian Federation for its implementation mainly due to the export of EU products via Ukraine to the Russian market. The agreements have been ratified by 16 Member States of the European Union so far and we would like the Republic of Slovenia to adopt them as an expression of political support before the summit of the Eastern European Partnership, which will be held in Riga on 21 and 22 May 2015. Members took part in the debate and addressed several questions to the Secretary of State, which he answered satisfactorily and stressed, inter alia, that the ratification submitted under the ratification laws adequately includes the strategic interests of the Republic of Slovenia and that the agreement provides greater legal certainty for all forms of cooperation of the Republic of Slovenia with Moldova, Georgia and Ukraine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u90	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for her by Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u91	Thank you, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! In 2003, it seemed for a moment that European foreign and security policy would go away from America's political and economic interests. France and Germany condemned the attack on Iraq and established a partnership with the Russian Federation. At that time, a group of smaller countries appeared who supported the American aggression with a famous elf declaration. Today we can see that the foreign policy of so-called new Europe is becoming a common European foreign and security policy. The Eastern Partnership and the Association Agreements that we are dealing with today are a typical example of the European Union's misdirection. Behind the innocent expression of partnership lies the economic and geopolitical subordination of the countries of the Soviet Union. Recently, someone happily stated that it was a European war country. Moldova, Georgia and Ukraine are fragmented countries. In all three, part of the population rebelled against the central authorities and established their own authority. The European Union and NATO have always intervened in the internal affairs of these countries on the side of the central authorities, most obviously by supporting the military adventure of Georgian President Sakashvili and so-called anti-terrorist operations of the Ukrainian army and paramilitary militias in eastern Ukraine. Association agreements with Moldova, Georgia or Ukraine do not allow for a lasting solution to these disputes. In fact, they exacerbate divisions in Moldova, Georgia and Ukraine because they prevent cooperation with the Russian Federation, which is decisive for the population of Moldovan Transnistria, Abkhazia and South Ossetia and Donbas from an economic, cultural and purely life-threatening perspective. All these agreements contain a remarkable clause – Article 5 of the agreement with Moldova – which is subordinated to the common European foreign and security policy. This not only prevents closer cooperation with other former Soviet republics, but explicitly puts them in a conflict relationship with the Russian Federation and prevents national unity. In the United Left, we don't agree to the logic of influential areas. The second aspect of the European Union's misdirection is economic. Association agreements with Moldova, Georgia and Ukraine are some kind of TTIP for the former Soviet republics. On the one hand, it is free trade agreements. Let's not do any kind of work, the free trade agreement between the European Union and Moldova can only benefit the European Union; no industry in Moldova can compete with European competition. It is quite clear that the liberalisation of public procurement under the Association Agreement will not benefit Moldova but the European countries. It is quite clear that it is not the protection of the intellectual rights of Moldovan producers, but of American and European producers. It is quite clear that this is not a free movement of Moldovan capital, but a free movement of European and American capital. In modern competition with Europe, Moldova has no options. An opportunity for Moldova would be an autonomous development policy which, by the way, would also be necessary in Slovenia and elsewhere in Europe. However, this policy is not allowed because it is contrary to the free market and the State aid rules. In short, all three Association Agreements are the Eastern European version of various TTIPs. In the United Left we protest when such neoliberal agreements of Slovenia are imposed by those who are stronger than us. It would be hypocritical if we were to impose them on those who are weaker. Have we really learned nothing from European integration in the so-called Western Balkans? What do the inhabitants of Bosnia, Serbia have from the Association and Stabilisation Programmes? What helps Croatia and Bulgaria to become a member of the European Union, but if they are on the European Union's tail by all the development indicators and cannot be detached from it? There is a dark fox between Romania and Ukraine on Europe's development map. It's Moldova. Moldova is a long way from the human development index to Albania, even Egypt, Lebanon and Palestine. Ukraine and Georgia are not doing much better. The experience of the former Yugoslav republics confirms that European integration means even more deindustrialisation, even more unemployment, more poverty and more emigration. I'm sure the Moldovans don't deserve this scenario. Instead of free-customs agreements, they need development assistance. Instead of choosing either Russia or the EU, they need equal cooperation with all neighbouring countries. Only in this case will Moldova be able to develop and someday unite into a single country of equal nations. Not only do this agreement and the policy of the Eastern Partnership not allow it, but it even further prevents it. Therefore, we will not support this agreement in the United Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u92	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable Council of Ministers, respectable colleagues and colleagues! Out of respect for the States parties to the three agreements ratified today by the National Assembly, in particular out of respect for the Republic of Slovenia, I wish to express, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, the satisfaction and support of all three laws on the ratification of the Association Agreements. Why? Because our future is only in integration and cooperation and solidarity and European values. The agreements are ratified after we celebrated the significant holidays of May 9th, Europe Day and May 8th, the anniversary of the 1989 May Declaration. Why am I mentioning her? Because point 2 of the Mainic Declaration states: As a sovereign state, we will decide on our relations with the Yugoslav peoples and other peoples within the framework of a renewed Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, on 9 May 1950, French Foreign Minister Robert Schuman presented to the press the historic proposal for the realization of a centuries-old idea of the permanent integration of countries and nations on the European continent. According to his own words, it was no longer an empty word, but an act, a bold, constructive act from which Europe will be born, a Europe that will be firmly united and firmly built, a Europe in which the standard of living will rise thanks to the pooling of production and the expansion of markets that will lead to price cuts. In 1985, a decision was taken at the European Council in Milan to mark 9 May as Europe's day as a holiday of the European integration process in remembrance of the Schuman proposal mentioned above. To be precise, we are celebrating two days of Europe, one as mentioned on 9 May and the other on 5 May as a memory of the establishment of a Council of Europe. That year, 1949, this organisation was established, which was and is of great importance in the exercise of human rights, democracy and the rule of law on the European continent, which is beyond the borders of today's European Union. It laid the foundation for the development of today's European integration as a community of countries with the main objective of contributing Europe to world peace and peace on the old continent, ensuring transnational economic cooperation, genuine solidarity and prosperity. All of us can see that from then on there has been a long and hard journey, and this has brought great progress. For this journey, which was a real miracle, if we think about what was happening on the European continent in the centuries and, in particular, decades before the start of the integration process, the European Union may have been a little late, but I think it has received the Nobel Peace Prize in 2012 at the right moment. At the right moment, so that we do not forget the achievements of the crossed paths at the time of the crisis we are in. What should the European Union be like in the future? Slovenia and the European Union have faced major challenges, and it is important to cooperate and bring together some policies in the process of finding solutions to the crisis. Efforts must be made to create economic growth and create new jobs, especially for young people in which the future lies. New Slovenia – Christian Democrats We expect the full implementation of all the three agreements that we ratify today to be a step towards realizing the thoughts of French writer Victor Hugo, who wrote in 1849: "The day will come when all the nations of our continent, without having to give up their unique specialities and great uniqueness, will be poured into a higher entity and will form a brotherhood of European nations. The day will come when the fields of screeching ideas will be the only battlefields. There will also come a day when, instead of bullets and bombs, election votes will be decided." This day has already come to a great deal. Let's not let the gains get lost, but let's do everything we can to get closer to Hugo's ideal. And let us not forget the thought of one of the fathers of Europe, Christian Democrat Robert Schuman, who said, "We did not have Europe, so we had a war." And that's Schuman's appeal for today's uncertain time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u94	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly could not be tabled. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 70 votes against 3. [[The vote was 70.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 3. On the contrary, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their member states on one side and Georgia on the other. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u95	Thank you very much. At its 21st session today, the Committee on Foreign Policy discussed the proposal for a law on the ratification of the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and Georgia, of the other part, submitted to the State Assembly for consideration by the Government. In its consideration, the Committee took into account the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects and had no comments on the text of the bill. As no amendment has been adopted to the draft law on the home working body, the Committee on Foreign Policy proposes to the National Assembly that the Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and Georgia, of the other part, be adopted in the text table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u96	There are no applications for presentation of the Group's position. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly could not be tabled. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 69 votes against 3. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to four. On the day-to-day basis, this is a draft act on the ratification of the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their member states on one side and Ukraine on the other. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. A written report has been published and received to the e-club. Following the presentation of the position of the Joint Left Group, Dr. Matej T. Vatovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u97	Thanks again. The Association Agreement with Ukraine differs from the agreements with Georgia and Moldova. It is not only that it is more extensive, that it has a very strong focus on the energy field, but, above all, that the Association Agreement for Ukraine will be far more fatal, much more harmful. There are two reasons for that. First one's next. Georgia and Moldova have been fragmented for many years and the Association Agreement has virtually no effect on this. In Ukraine, however, the Association Agreement was the main reason for the start of the civil war. Ukraine is divided into an industrial Russian-speaking East and an agricultural Ukrainian-speaking West. The agreement with the Russian Federation would not significantly harm Ukrainian agriculture, but the East Ukrainian heavy industry and mining cannot compete with Europe. The developmental foundations of regions such as Donbas, which are already weak, are at risk. Georgia and Moldova have no mention of a valuable industrial tradition and sectors. Ukraine has them or has them until they disappeared in an anti-terrorism operation. Another time. Agreements that exacerbate the conflict between Georgia and Moldova on the one hand and the Russian Federation on the other will make it difficult to regulate the status of Transnistria, South Ossetia and Abkhazia. However, there is a lasting truce in these areas, while peace is yet to be established in eastern Ukraine. In order to stabilise the situation, all parties should refrain from actions aimed at the other side. This Agreement shall, in Articles 4 and 7, subject Ukraine to an increasingly anti-Russian foreign and security policy of the European Union. Good relations with the Russian Federation are vital for the people of eastern Ukraine; those who interfere in these relations are directly breaking the agreement from Minsk. The Minsk Agreement already has many opponents, starting with the Ukrainian government and the United States, who provide the Ukrainian army with material and sending instructors to Ukraine to train the paramilitary national guard. Vietnam also started with instructors. The Association Stabilisation Agreements concluded by the EU with the former Yugoslav republics and other Balkan countries have proved to be harmful in practice. The result was deindustrialisation, unemployment, poverty, emigration and general prospects. Croatia, the leading country in the region, is said to have not yet reached the level of industrial production in 1980. This is a fully expected result of the competition of small, less developed countries in the open market for goods, services and capital. Ukraine will not be able to avoid this, only that the consequences will be even worse because Ukraine's starting position is already worse. In 2012, Ukraine reached only 24% of the European average of GDP. Ukraine now has only as many population as it did in 1960. It is significantly less developed than all its neighbours, with the exception of Moldova. Such a country needs development aid, not free trade agreements. The European Common Foreign Policy clearly ignores these facts for a simple reason, because this is not about the welfare of the Ukrainian people and not about the welfare of Europeans, but about the interests of European multinationals and Ukrainian oligarchs. The European economy, especially in the Eastern countries, is in serious harm due to economic sanctions. The social situation of the Ukrainians has deteriorated significantly since the adoption of the agreement. According to some calculations, the cost of living of a two-member household was increased by 88 % only because of the gas, electricity and water prices that entered into force on 1 April this year. On the other hand, the Ukrainian oligarchs not only increased their wealth at that time but also increased their political power. One of the leading oligarchs is the president of the state. Others finance private armies. No, ladies and gentlemen, the real enemy of the Ukrainians is not Putin, but the domestic Ukrainian oligarchs, those who now run the government in Kiev and finance the paramilitary units that run the so-called anti-terrorist operation against their own population. If these are European values and the European choice in the preamble to the agreement, then thank you very much for such a Europe. Even the European Commission has indirectly acknowledged that this agreement is dangerous. On 12 September last year, the ministerial troika – EU, Ukraine, the Russian Federation – halted the economic performance by the end of 2015. In March last year, German Foreign Minister Steinmeier stated that either — or Russia or the European Union — or neoliberal integration or exclusion should be discontinued. Unfortunately, there was only words left at that time, and that is why we are again facing a dilemma today, either the Minsk Peace Agreement or the Brussels Peace Agreement. In the United Left, we have set ourselves up for an agreement from Minsk, so we will vote against the Brussels dictatorship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u98	We are done with the presentation of the Group's position. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly could not be tabled. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 68 votes against 3. [[The vote was 68.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of agenda item 1, this is the consideration of the list of candidates for ministers We're moving on to decision-making. In accordance with the proposal of the President of the Government and Article 232 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the appointment of ministers shall be voted on by voting on the List of Candidates for Ministers as a whole. I put to the vote the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly appoints Mrs Andrejo Katič as Minister of Defence and Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič as Minister of Education, Science and Sport. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Alliance's Group, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u99	Thank you very much, President. Today we have listened to quite a few discussions for, against, as usual, when the President of the Government proposes ministers for his government. Nothing in the Alliance has changed completely since we discussed the first time that the Prime Minister of the Government has drawn up. It is our opinion that not only can the President appoint them, but he can also resolve them, and if we had a high level of culture in the Slovenian space, the Minister would only sincerely thank him for his cooperation and wish him a happy way to the government, but not make such attention and such a circus at his unfortunate and crimson end when someone thanks him. However, today we have two candidates. Clearly, a qualified majority of ministers must stand up for themselves, for it is a matter of hygiene. If this majority fails, it is better that it does not even have its ministers and does not operate in Parliament. However, it is only right for me to express one wish to both ministers. First, happily, and secondly, as far as the Secretary of Defense is concerned, don't listen to the old generals, who like to get involved again and again in every minister and advise him on what's good and what isn't. In the end, these generals always buried all the ministers. And I advise the ministers to know that she is coming to the ministry, where every time the government has left a lot of traces, and these officials and advisors most often want nothing to change, which means that the minister has only three years to make a change. If she listens to them, it's a bad start. I hope he's got a good team. According to her expertise, knowledge is likely to form a team by advising her, especially on the parts she herself says will result in teamwork. Many joys and, above all, happiness for all who will work in this place, especially many results. And we will monitor your work and reward it when the time is right for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u100	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u101	President, thank you for your word. Comrades and comrades! The government formulation is clear: we get two ministers, but together with them we get even more old. The candidate for Minister of Education Maja Makovec Brenčič is the third in line. According to her words and references, neoliberal doctrine will be injected into education and science at even higher doses. If I am very specific, very clear thinking and intends to subordinate education to the economy and private profits, supports private education on public funds, does not intend to democratise the feudal university and thus to step on the fingers of the privileged academic elite or to eliminate the miserable situation of the academic praitor and generally advocates some balanced budget logic and the logic of austerity measures. Ms Andrej Katič, Minister of Defence, made it clear that she would continue with the current misdirection of the Slovenian Army. Again, I can specifically state: he advocates Slovenia's membership and activity in relation to NATO. We know that the Slovenian Army is unable to defend its own national territory for the purpose of entering and subjugating the needs of NATO at this time after the recognition of its own doctrine. At the same time, it does not intend to divert the Slovenian Armed Forces away from professionalism, which has proved to be another major mistake in the area of our defence policy. Nor does Andrej Katič offer some comprehensive answers concerning the pressing social problems facing the Slovenian Army or its members. We know that there is no career future for these members within the Slovenian Army after the age of 45, and they are like the only civil servants who cannot expect a pension in their service. We also know that members of the Slovenian Army are in terrible social distress because their income, their wages for the work they are doing, is terrible. These are the reasons why we cannot support Andreja Katič in the United Left. It is clear from the presentations and from the previous part of the two candidates that they have been chosen to continue their current orientations in their areas or even to tighten these orientations. But these government policies are wrong because they lead us into dependence on foreign power centres, into increasing social inequality and us as a country, and as a society, they push us all together into periphery and ever deeper into underdevelopment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u102	We vote on the proposed decision. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 22. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 22.]] The decision was adopted. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, I find that the ministers of the Government are appointed. I'd like to invite the minister to meet in the hall the seats dedicated to the government. / applause/ I congratulate the ministers of the Government on their appointment and wish them a successful ministerial duty. In accordance with Article 113 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, I ask the newly appointed Minister to swear before the National Assembly. Mrs Andreja Katič, Minister of Defence, will be the first to swear.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u103	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u104	Is the Minister trying to talk to the National Assembly? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Mr President of the National Assembly. Honourable President of the Government, colleagues, co-workers and co-workers of the National Assembly! I thank you for the cooperation we have had during this period. I also thank you for the trust you've shown me. The Slovenian army and the forces for protection and rescue in the public enjoy a great reputation. But before us there is a need for legislative changes, as well as for the preparation of strategic documents. And I will make sure that, for their change, adoption and implementation, I will receive the widest possible political support, as well as wider social support. Members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the security and rescue forces are doing invaluable work for the Republic of Slovenia, for citizens and citizens, and for our common security. I will do my best to make it possible for them and the Government, together with you, to enable their mission to function. Thank you. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u106	I thank the Minister for her words. Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič, Minister of Education, Science and Sport, will now swear.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u107	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u108	Does the Minister want to talk to the National Assembly? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u109	Respected and respected! Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable President of the Government, Minister's Assembly, Honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you for being so trusting. Today is still a special moment because it is right to expose knowledge. Knowledge is a value and is the foundation of development and our common future. I hope that together we will be able to find the right place of knowledge, especially for young people, and especially for all of us, so that we can build a common society of growth and development, today and in the future. Thanks again. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-13-SDZ7-Izredna-13.ana.u110	I thank the Minister for her words. Since Mrs Andreja Katič is appointed Minister, in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members, she is temporarily unable to perform her parliamentary function. I will immediately inform the National Election Commission and ask it to inform the assembly which candidate or candidate will replace or replace that Member in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members. On the basis of a notification from the National Election Commission, the Mandate-Election Commission will report its findings to the assembly. The delegation appointed as Minister is temporarily unable to act as a Member of the Parliament and is therefore not in a position to act as Minister of State under the first paragraph of paragraphs 20, 199, 201 and 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. It shall cease to function on the date of the meeting of the National Assembly. I hereby conclude this item of the agenda and also the 13th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
