ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 5th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Klaudija Markež, Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer by 12 noon, Mrs. Irena Kotnik by 11.30, Mrs. Vesna Vervega by 2.30 p.m., Mrs. Irena Grošelj Kosnik by 12.30 p.m. Marko Pogačnik, Dr. Franc Trček, Mr. Marijan Pojbič, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, mag. Branislav Rajić by 3 p.m., Matjaž Hanžek, Mr Benedict Kopmajer, Mr Ivan Hršak and Mag. Branko Grimes. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 18. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the laws on medicinal products within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was submitted to the Council of State for consideration. With regard to these proposals, the Health Committee proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to Mr Tomaž Gantar, Chairman of the Committee, to complement the explanation of the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u2	Dear President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues, good day to all! The Health Committee shall meet at its 2nd meeting, on 11 November. 2. 2015 as a parent working body was treated by the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Medicinal Products Act submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia. Members and members of the Committee received a proposal for a law dated 12 as material for the meeting published on the website of the National Assembly. 12. 2014, Opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 23. 1. 2015, opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of 15. 1. 2015, letter from the Faculty of Pharmacy of 2. 3 and 2 letters from Lekarna Ljubljana of 22. 1. and 5. 2. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The amendments of the SDS Group were also tabled within the deadline. In the introduction, State Councillor Drago Ščernjavič presented the reasons for the submission of the Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Medicinal Products by the State Council. The opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was presented by Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc. She pointed out that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was not in favour of the proposed Amendments and Supplements to the Medicinal Products Act and presented further concerns regarding the proposed amendments. Although the Government is partially in agreement with the amendment of Article 105, which refers to the establishment of business entities which are not allowed to carry out wholesale transport and are also operators of health and pharmacy activities or their founders or owners. At the same time, it considers that it is better to regulate the area systematically in the Pharmaceuticals Act, but not only by amending certain articles in the Medicinal Products Act. The proposal for a law shall not contain a transitional period after which business operators or health operators have to adapt to the new situation and harmonise their activities when it is possible to adopt Article 105. With regard to the operation of the official control laboratory within the framework of the Public Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices and the transfer to the National Laboratory for Health, Environment and Food, the Minister stressed that it was under schedule. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, Mr Božo Strle, stressed that the Legislative and Legal Service had examined and commented on the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legal technical aspect. He pointed out the content of the comments to each article and pointed out that amendments in this legislative process were not possible to remedy any shortcomings. In the debate, representatives of the National Laboratory for Health, Environment and Food and the Public Medicines and Medical Devices ensured that the transfer of laboratory activities to the field of drug control is planned in all elements. The regulation, as foreseen by the System Act on Medicines, means rationalisation, better use of resources and better integration in the European space. With regard to Article 105 of the Code of Pharmaceuticals of Slovenia, the representative stressed that the trade union had already taken a principled position at the time of its consideration of the Pharmaceuticals Act, which opposed vertical links within the pharmacy or distribution chain and opposed the increase in the number of wholesalers. The Slovenian trade union representative Pergam noted that the current situation after the transfer of the laboratory to the national laboratory was illegal, which was denied by representatives of both the National Laboratory and the Public Medicines Agency. The representative of the Pharmacy Chamber stressed that the Chamber works for the benefit of patients and opposes any linkage that could endanger the professional independence of pharmacists. The bill itself is incomplete. The problem needs to be solved systematically. The representative of Lekarne Ljubljana explained why he did not support the amendment of Article 105 and described the facts in which the amendment proposal was made. Members and members of the Committee agreed that there was confusion on the drug market and that the current regime was not appropriate. However, the proposed amendment to the law by the State Council does not solve the problem. Following the discussion, the Committee, pursuant to Article 128(2) of the Rules of Procedure by 9 votes in favour and 4 against, adopted the following decision: Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Medicinal Products, is not appropriate for further consideration, and the decision of the Ministry of Health to draw up a proposal for a Law on Medical Activities with Public Treatment no later than the end of 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u3	For the introduction, I give the floor to Drag Ščernjavič, the representative of the Council of State as the proposer of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Good-bye. Dear President, honourable Members, distinguished Minister! After a year and a half, we're back in front of you. In the previous composition, we had a veto here with the same content. If I look now from January to today, what has changed, little or nothing, and some things that have changed have also become forceful, especially with regard to the laboratory, which I will especially point out. If you're not worried about what's going on in the drug market, I'm very worried, and I've been doing this for a few years now, I've studied a lot of documentation, so what's available, I've also looked at what entities are also dealing with any income differences, the expenditure they have, the profits they make here, and how that, I would say, how many mammals we have in the health department. And this is one source, a source for a lot of strangeness, but nothing is done. With this delay, what has been said here today, I would simply say I do not agree – what I say in advance – and this is just a delay and a delay in problems and further, if you want, I can't say otherwise, stealing money from the health department, from public health. If there were at least one serious analysis, review and analysis of all those involved in the distribution chain, from 24 pharmacies to 70 of all traders, 4 wholesalers, small wholesalers, then to examine the margins they are, and also this regulation on determining the prices of medicinal products that are very problematic. When I ask who in Slovenia has determined that we set prices based on the prices of medicines Austria, Germany, France, why not Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia or any other country. And as a result, it has to do with all these subjects that I've listed, and I don't mind, they live beautifully, they serve well, and I don't know if anyone has any loss or any minus. And medical pens. Every day we listen, for the last time at the Ministry of Health, doctors in line, pray to the Minister of Health, what, how, although I think a little too much promises, but this is her responsibility, given the negotiations and procedures that are procedures, but everyone lives well. But who brings with them — users, citizens, those who need more than 200 — we also have prescriptions that we have to pay extra. [[…]] How does this come about? Who's calling it? How's that supposed to work? In short, it is full of these matters, of course this 105th article, even if supported today, does not solve all that has accumulated in this chain and in the drug market and what is behind it. The meal is worth over 500 million euros. He was treated in Slovenia, just over 100 million copies, if you share this with 2 million Slovenians, you get what comes to one Slovenian type of medicine. In short, we should limit the range of business entities, but based on the evaluation analysis, I expect the Minister, as I think you have predicted, to have put EUR 300,000 into some analysis prepared by the Ministry of Health, that you have also covered this segment of the market, and that you will then be able to build things up from this analysis in order to find optimal solutions. In short, this law that you still have ahead of you, but I call on you to support this article, our amendment and our complement, in order to at least step up to these changes. As this postponement until the end of the year, I believe that we have listened to this before last year, now again, this means that the end of the year will be almost two years from those first initiatives and proposals. With regard to the official control laboratory, this second set proposed by the Council of State – the maintenance of this official control laboratory within the JSM, in the already known part of the expert circles, is, of course, unacceptable. Last year we warned, the profession, the union, when we were, we gave opinions, opinions, comments also on the instrument of systematisation. We wanted to keep it, process it, like it is, now they've reduced the number of experts, there's no real control. I think that's unacceptable in this situation. Who will be responsible for the consequences? Because this team that is now, and what's just being teamed up, there's gonna be a lot of things that could be overlooked, because even the right people aren't in the right place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u5	I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc, to introduce the position on the proposal of the working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. My very nice greeting, Mr President of the House, Mr President-in-Office of the Health Committee, the honourable Members and Members. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia gives a negative opinion on the proposed amendments to the Law on Medicinal Products. The proposal to supplement Article 105 of the above-mentioned amendments on the establishment of business entities which are not allowed to carry out the transport of medicinal products on a wholesale basis, namely health and pharmaceutical operators and their founders or owners, is of the opinion that it is partly possible to agree, but that area, as already mentioned by the representative of the applicants, should be regulated in a comprehensive and systematic manner. From a systemic point of view, it would be more appropriate to regulate this in the Act on Pharmaceutical Activities, which is the home law governing this area. With regard to vertical integration, it should be clarified that, while they are allowed in 18 Member States of the European Union, where the pharmacy owner can also be one who is not a pharmacist, it must meet certain conditions for this. At the same time, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia notes that the proposal for a new law does not contain an appropriate transitional period in which all business entities involved in health activities should adapt to this. This is mainly due to the transport of drugs and fatty substances carried out by healthcare providers, namely the National Institute for Health Protection and the Institute for Transfusion Medicine. According to the proposal of the National Council, healthcare providers should not engage in wholesale drug trade. If this proposal were to be fully adopted, both the National Institute for Health Protection and the Institute for Transfusion Medicine should not engage in wholesale medicinal products and thus supply vaccines or blood products. As a result, the supply of vaccines and medicinal products from the blood would be disrupted, and we know that both are important elements of public health. The advantages of central care are mainly: lower prices, safe and uninterrupted supply and an efficient and simple supply system. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia also disagrees with or does not support the amendment of Articles 153, 154 and 155 of the proposed amendments to the Act and the deletions of Articles 206, 207 and 208 of this Act relating to the regulation of the functioning of the official control laboratory within the framework of the Public Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, instead of within the framework of the National Laboratory for Health, Environment and Food. The latter cannot, in particular, take into account the fact that procedures for the inclusion of NLZOH in the European network of control laboratories at the European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines are already under way and are already being foreseen to assess the control of this international institution. Furthermore, it is worth clarifying that NLZOH is a public health institution set up by the Republic of Slovenia, which is designed in a centralised manner precisely with a view to bridging capacity and rationalising resources. This will address all laboratory capacities in the field of water, food, materials, biocides, chemicals, soil plant protection products, air other than medicines. By merging, the name of this institution will fully reflect the actual state and systemic needs of the official quality testing laboratory in the field of health protection, where medicines are included. For this reason, the Government does not support the amendment and amendment of the Medicinal Products Act. In short, just so that, as you have already heard from the Chairman of the Health Committee, the Ministry of Health will submit a comprehensive amendment or a new Act on Pharmacy Activities, where the criteria for setting up the network will be established, the position of pharmaceutical service providers on the market will be levelled, concessions will be transferred, then the prohibition of vertical integration and horizontal integration will be allowed under certain conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u7	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the United Left for her by Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. In the United Left Group, we voted against the decision of the parent working body that the law was not suitable for further consideration. For we have agreed on the purpose of the law, and we are convinced that some technical shortcomings of this proposal could be corrected. We also do not agree with the Government's excuses, which block any good initiative that is not itss with the excuse that it is good, but that it is not systemic, so we expect the Government to prepare its solution to the link between retail and wholesale drugs as soon as possible. This connection is a problem. The fact is that in a small market such as Slovenia, intermediaries between producers and sellers have a commission that is not in any proportion to their actual economic role. Therefore, we should not be surprised at the differences between the prices of medicinal products in Slovenia or Austria, but we can compare the funds allocated for medicines in one country and another, and we can see immediately that we have a problem if prices are the same. Action must be taken and the proposer has shown how action must be taken. The Council of State correctly concluded that the problem is not only in vertical connections but also in horizontal monopolies. In other words, the problem is the cartel negotiation of wholesalers on prices, which the applicant supported with relevant reports from the Court of Auditors and the Competition Protection Agency. It is true, however, that there is no action against this in this proposal. Monopoly can be regulated in two ways in theory. It can be eliminated by increasing the number of tenderers, which is in practice rare. In Europe, it is typical that, despite free competition, the wholesale drug trade is extremely monopolized. In Sweden, for example, up to recently two entities monitored 95% of the market. This method is not likely to work in large markets, but on a small market it is meaningless at all. So Monopoly is a fact, and the question is, who benefits from it? Currently, it benefits a private company or LL Grossist, owned by a public company called Lekarna Ljubljana. Harmful effects of the monopoly can be prevented either by socialising commissions or by regulating the prices of medicines. Given that the Government has rightly acknowledged to the proposaler that it has not proposed any measure in the field of horizontal links, we expect it to find an effective solution on its own. We hope that it will not be excused that we have a competition agency, because it can only sanction obvious solutions, but cannot correct a system that is already weak in the source. The rejected bill also eliminated the transfer of the official control laboratory of the Public Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices within the framework of the National Laboratory for Health, Environment and Food. On its website we find a notification that the transfer was carried out on 9 February 2015. This does not, of course, mean that this institution has obtained all the certifications that the public agency has had and that it should agree to the enforcement fact. There was no valid reason for this transfer. The institution existed and had all the conditions for work. There will be no savings in public finances due to the transfer, and the quality of control will not improve. So there can be only some third interests in the background. The proposal to prevent this has come too late, but not too late if the National Assembly supported this proposal, but for a coalition that is willing to swallow up a whole series of such executed facts to the detriment of citizens, if we only remember the case of TES 6 or privatisation, has also supported those hunting ground, lobbyings that Mr Cerar likes to say are guilty of a bad situation in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u9	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, for which Mr. Vrtovec has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u10	Dear colleagues, distinguished president, minister! The New Slovenia Group on the committee responsible did not object to the proposal of the Act on Medicinal Products tabled by the Council of State. Almost one year ago, the Council of State made a request for re-decision on a system-wide drug law, which was fully replaced by the law in force at that time. When adopting the Medicinal Products Act last year, New Slovenia supported the amendments of the Desus Group, which regulates the set of business entities which are not allowed to engage in the transport of medicinal products by weight. Indeed, this amendment is now summarized in the articles of amendments to the law proposed by the Council of State. Slovenian health care has been shown to be particularly inefficient in the procurement of medicines and other medical equipment, and the analysis of financial flows is intended to indicate that it is among suppliers for cartel arrangements. Therefore, standardisation of the purchase of medicinal products and medical devices and a transparent public procurement system should be introduced. On the one hand, therefore, losses due to imprudent public procurement and, on the other hand, pre-nuptially fed health stores, where taxpayers have to contribute more and more. We therefore believe that the solution of the State Council could introduce more transparency and consequently lower the prices of the registered medicinal product, despite some ambiguities and the government's consequent commitment to regulate matter in the Pharmaceuticals Act. The fact is that in the field of medicines in addition to safety, there is also a need for transparency of sales, as the use of medicines is constantly increasing, not only in terms of the means used to buy them, but also in terms of the volume or quantity of medicines used. In 2010, expenditure on medicinal products in the Member States of the European Union was on average almost one fifth, 19% of total expenditure on health care, and thirdly, after spending on hospitals and extra-patient treatment, i.e. care. On the basis of official records, drug consumption in Slovenia has increased by an average of 3.7% per year over the last five years. Therefore, when we look at the ten-year period, the use of medicines has increased by almost 60% in Slovenia, and transparency is even more appropriate. Furthermore, the question of the transfer of the tasks of the official control laboratory from the Public Medicines Agency to the National Laboratory was also raised in the consideration of the law. The issue of the non-transferability of qualified and qualified personnel is particularly exposed and sensitive. Given that there is a certification phase in the official control laboratory, which is also linked to costs, it does not seem reasonable for us to transfer the competences back to the medicinal product agency. If I conclude, in Nova Slovenija it is therefore concluded that the law is not suitable for further consideration, we will not support it. Nor will we oppose him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u11	The text is given by the Alliance's Group of Ambassadors, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u12	Good afternoon! As the proponents have already said, even if Article 105 of this proposed law had been adopted, it would not have solved any problems. But you have to ask yourself why. For one simple reason, because, in fact, there was peace in the drug market until 2008 somewhere. Peace was especially due to the fact that the main traders divided the market and knew who was selling what, who was earning what, and who was giving what to whom. The moment it happened that it was in the public sector, it was exactly the case in Lekarna Ljubljana that a new company was created, which was able to trade drugs for fat, and it was created in the country of unrest. Restlessness because it was a pharmacy that covered one third of all sales policies in pharmacy activities in the Slovenian space and, of course, had a strong impact on the sale of medicines in the Slovenian space, especially the wholesalers, because they were counting on them not to be able to sell anymore and then it rested. Then, that moment, from that moment forward, we suddenly have an unresolved drug problem in Slovenia. And since then, the country has been faithfully dealing with all ministers since then, and to this day, with a single issue. Now pay attention, interestingly, not how to regulate and control wholesalers, away from how to prevent the public sector from selling medicines and simply eliminate them, because this has become what is dangerous. While we agree, of course, that this law cannot regulate medicines in this existing law, but that what the Government has proposed is largely in pharmaceutical activities, but, of course, it only regulates again in the pharmaceutical activities of those matters and those materials which are, of course, not enough to deal with these issues in this market. Even today, even in the pharmacy business, neither who or whether the pharmacy activity is the primary poor nor why we even put it at the primary level and what issues we wanted to settle. Even today, we have hospitals that on the one hand can have their own hospital-medical activities, and they also operate thickly with medicines, while everything else, which is at the primary level, is not. I hope that then this analysis will also show how many medicines are on the one hand and on the other. In addition, the country has never dealt with the question of when workers, pharmacists, employees of pharmacies, set up private companies, wholesale shops. That wasn't a problem in this country. It was always just a problem if the pharmacy set it up. Interestingly, when and where he financed someone in advertising when the issue had to be raised. That is why this 105th Article will not solve this problem, which is, of course, pointed out by the proposer himself. That is why we will pay particular attention to the ministry when it raises this issue, which really raises questions systematically and which it does not want to open. We will also pay attention to research and analysis and therefore support the Government's proposal not to open this area. But as for the control laboratory itself, when the austerity measures began, stupidity also began, and from then on, of course, we are following this problem, which, interestingly, we can arrange one, we have been able to sort ourselves out in practically a couple of months, and we can't fix this nonsense in a couple of years. And that's the key problem. We simply do not know how to engage if we find that something is wrong, how quickly it quickly cuts off measures so that we can correct what has been unacceptable or has already shown the result that it may not have been the best solution. In any case, I agree, the Council of State was a proposal for veto, it was also an incentive to amend this law, but I suggest to the Council of State that it does not come with such laws to the National Assembly. But I don't mind that he's very clear on these problems. Especially because he does not have this option, as we have said lately, he is keenly pleased that we are dealing with these issues systematically.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u13	The text is addressed to Mr Branko Zorman, Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u14	Honourable President, Honourable Minister, Honourable Applicant, Fellow Members and Fellow Members! The current Act on Medicinal Products was adopted in a previous reference to the National Assembly, February 2014. The proposed amendment of the law, the Council of State, in the first part, advocates the amendment of Article 105 of the Law governing the recruitment of business entities which are not allowed to engage in the transport of medicinal products by weight. The carrying out of that activity shall be prohibited for business entities which are operators of health activities, pharmacy activities or those established by such operators. In the second part, the amendment of the Act also provides for amendments to Article 153, Article 154 and Article 155 of the Medicinal Products Act and Article 206, Article 207 and Article 208. Articles proposing the transfer of the powers of the official control laboratory back to the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Medicines and Medical Devices. In the SMC Party, the Modern Centre Party, we disagree with the proposed method of addressing the problem. In the first part, where a set of business entities are regulated which are not allowed to engage in the marketing of medicinal products, the proposed amendments are indeed subject to problematic market regulation and are, in fact, partly justified in this respect. Nevertheless, the proposed amendments address only one part of the pressing issue and some constitutional aspects of limiting economic initiative and limiting property rights could also be disputed. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also expressed a negative opinion on amendments to the law, as it will approach the regulation of this area with far more extensive changes, which will effectively eliminate the so far opaque chain of ownership and the unjustifiable increase in the prices of medicines on the market. I would point out that the Agency for the Protection of Competition is already responsible for monitoring and action in the event of harmful links. It should be known that the adoption of the amendment of the law, as proposed by the proposer, would undoubtedly lead to difficulties in providing certain risk medicines, vaccines, blood, plasma and so on, as the prohibition law does not offer alternative care with those products. This would constitute a threat to a very important element of public health. The correct regulation of future medical care is the regulation of the area in the new Medical Act, which will be prepared by the Ministry of Health in accordance with the new Resolution on the National Health Plan 2016-2025 and cost-effectiveness analysis by the end of 2015. In addition to these vertical and horizontal links, the new Pharmacy Act will systematically regulate pharmacy activities, as it will also now regulate the unequal position of private pharmacists of concessionaires compared to public pharmacies, criteria for the establishment of a pharmacy network, the award of concessions and so on. The second part of the bill relating to the regulation of the operation of the official control laboratory also lacks critical judgment, as the procedures for the inclusion of the UKL within the NLZOH National Laboratory in the European Network of Control Laboratories are already under way with the European Directorate for the Quality of Medicinal Products. EDQM has already announced the final assessment of the quality of the official control laboratory as part of the NLZOH, which will take place in a short time. The judgment before the final transfer of equipment and personnel was, of course, not possible. It should be known that the official control laboratory under the JAZMP was established by law and was not included in the assessment of the pharmaceutical inspection, which means a lower level of control system. On the other hand, NLZOH meets the requirements of ISO 17025 and is authorised to manufacture medicinal products, which constitutes a higher standard. NLZOH is already conducting an analytical examination of medicines in Maribor, New Town and new in Ljubljana. It is also important that the official control laboratory acted ineffectively in carrying out its activities under the JAZMP, with backlogs and financial losses, and demonstrated only 50 % of the performance of the statutory tasks, and therefore, by joining the UKL to the NLZOH, it follows the objectives of rationalising the costs in the public administration and thus enhancing the efficiency and efficiency of the work. Finally, all state laboratories, all capacities in the field of water analysis, food, chemicals, pesticides and medicines will be pooled in one place in NLZOH. In view of the increasing systemic requirements, the NLZOH will be easier to follow. In the light of all the above, the SMC Group will not support the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u15	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u16	Thank you for saying so, President. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall! The Medicinal Products Act, which was adopted in early 2014, also lays down conditions and obligations for drug wholesalers. We agree with the proposer of amendments to this Act that the conditions for carrying out the marketing of medicinal products, as set out in Article 105 of the Law, are lax and thus allow a wide range of business entities to carry out the activities of a wholesaler with medicinal products. Complementing this Article would prevent vertical integration between wholesalers and retailers. In the event of the establishment of a chain of pharmacies by wholesalers, it is now possible to establish oligopolistic links that may result in cartel negotiation and artificially higher prices for end-user medicinal products. In the event of a predominance of only one of the chains of pharmacies, it may even be possible to obtain a monopoly on the position of wholesalers. The recent interests of existing wholesalers seeking to regulate the legal basis for setting up their own pharmacies also show that the distribution chain is an area where important economic interests are expressed. In an indirect way, such a method of distribution of medicines is already being implemented in a way that allows drug wholesalers to rent commercial premises to pharmacies, while the rent is tied to exclusive drug purchase arrangements. Another change that we have also supported in our client concerns the official control laboratory. It is currently operating under the Public Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices. Its operation is transferred to the National Laboratory for Health, Environment and Food, which was established in 2013. The proposed amendments were justified as financially more rational and more professionally appropriate at the time of the establishment of the National Laboratory, but were not technically supported by arguments. It should be noted that the public agency has acted professionally, integrated into all European institutions in the field of drug quality control, with all the necessary infrastructure and high level of knowledge. The Public Agency Laboratory is also a full member of the European network of official control laboratories from the very beginning of its creation. The national laboratory for the testing of medicinal products does not have the appropriate competence, it is said, of the relevant EU certificates for the status of the official control laboratory. By transferring activities to the National Laboratory, there is a high risk of official quality control of medicinal products in Slovenia, as a public agency laboratory is expected to cease operation after one year of law enforcement. However, the national laboratory will have to prove within one year that it has procedures to implement its work in accordance with the European guidelines on the basis of which it will obtain an EU certificate. This is, in our view, impossible within one year. The existing Medicinal Products Act transfers the official quality control activity to the National Laboratory, which carries out a market activity for the pharmaceutical industry. The national laboratory will therefore act as an institution that carries out independent drug control and at the same time a market activity for the pharmaceutical industry, so in our opinion it will be in conflict of interest. For these reasons, our party concludes that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Medicinal Products Act is not suitable for further consideration and will therefore not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u17	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Say good-bye to everyone again! In the Desus Group, we found ourselves in a great dilemma about possible support in this proposal for the Amendment to the Medicinal Products Act. The Council of State has tabled in the parliamentary procedure a proposal for a new law on medicinal products with content, which we have been working on in the Desus Group since the adoption of this law at the beginning of last year. The proposed legislation seeks to supplement the Medicinal Products Act in such a way that operators of health or medical activities and business entities established by the healthcare or pharmacy operator will not be able to carry out wholesale sales activities of medicinal products. In the Desus Group, we tried to prevent the vertical links between velodrogerists and pharmacies by proposing an amendment to 105. At that time, we also proposed a transitional period, which is lacking in the current proposal for a new law. Therefore, we were surprised by the extremely negative opinion of the National Legislative and Legal Service, which shows even unconstitutionalness to the novel proposal in several places. When we proposed the amendment at the adoption of the current law in the DeSUS Group, the legislative and legal service at the meeting of the home labour body was not critical to its content. It was also not critical to present a veto on this law, and it considered that it was an area of professional nature that had to be resolved within the profession, let alone to read out its unconstitutionality. And even the fact that Ljubljana's pharmacies have attached the opinion of our Legal and Legislative Service in support of their opinion raises doubts about this very opinion. In the Desus Group, however, we believe that the problem of wholesalers would have been better addressed in the pharmacy law. In its consideration of the proposal for a novel on the home working body, it was decided that the proposed Act on Pharmacy would be made public by the end of this year. For this reason, we also supported the conclusion that we do not support the bill for further consideration. Regrettably, however, this is an extremely long-term issue, as the new pharmacy act will not be adopted before mid-2016. At the same time, we are surprised by the long deadline for the drafting of a bill on pharmacy activities in the Desus Group. The bill is practically ready, only in some points it needs to be updated and re-coordinated. We believe that vertical connections allow the creation of a monopolistic position on the drug market and that they can have a negative impact on the pricing of medicinal products, as well as on the supply of individual medicines, aimed at creating unjustified profits and redistributing them outside the public health system, which we oppose. As regards the transfer of competences for the implementation of official quality control of medicines from the Public Medicines Agency and medical devices to the National Laboratory, we had no problems at the time of the adoption of the law, since we trusted the Ministry and the JAZMP proposals. The transfer to the National Laboratory was a more professional solution and a more rational concept from a public financial point of view. In view of the regret I have mentioned at the beginning of the presentation of the position, Members and Members of the Desus Group do not have a unified opinion on supporting the decision that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u19	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Andreja Katič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u20	Dear President, Minister, proposer, colleague and colleague! The contents of the drug law were discussed at the time of the adoption of the law at the beginning of last year. The Council of State voted in favour of the procrastination veto. They are convinced that the law provides for cartel arrangements that a provision extending the conditions under which a person can carry out a wholesale activity will cause even greater confusion on the drug market and bring even greater pressure on prices. They therefore wanted the law to be supplemented so that wholesale activities could not be carried out by healthcare providers, pharmacy operators and their business operators. The Act transferred the powers to the newly established National Laboratory for Health, Environment and Food for the implementation of official quality control from the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Medicines and Medical Devices. According to them, this is a threat to public health. Since the Law was confirmed by the National Assembly in its redecision, they wanted to change the area by means of this amendment of the Law. Recognizing that the solution to the problem of vertical connections in the law is not the best, in the debate on the adoption of the law, the Social Democrats advocated seeking solutions that will address the issue in a comprehensive manner. In our view, therefore, part of the cases must be resolved in the Act on Pharmacy, which, according to the Ministry's promises, will be ready by the end of this year. We have therefore not changed our position in relation to the proposed provision, which will ensure the incompatibilities of pharmacy and wholesale activities. The provisions relating to the official control laboratory came into law only on the amendment committee. With regard to this solution, we trusted the Ministry of Health's proposal for a solution, but we expect the Ministry to react in an appropriate manner if it proves to be too urgent and ineffective. On 1 February, the deadline set by the Government for the transfer of equipment and premises, but not by employees, expired, since the law did not provide for this. The unusual decision of the applicant to release employees has no explanation, but there is something, given the required standards of the European network of control laboratories. Since only partial transfers are made without employees, despite the re-employment of the smaller part of the staff, this does not provide the required continuity to ensure the smooth inclusion of the new legal person in the network of official control laboratories. There are also different conflicting information on the envisaged inclusion time frame. At the end of March, a one-year transitional period for the laboratory to become a full member of the European network shall expire. If this does not happen, there may not be official controls for some time, which means that medicines of lower quality could appear on the Slovenian market. It's a lot of conflicting information. Even though the legal amendment process is now over, we are concerned that the story of the official control laboratory is about to begin. Social Democrats believe that all the obvious must be taken seriously. The work of the laboratory is extremely important in terms of ensuring the quality of medicines, so we hope that the Ministry has carefully weighed all the factors and that the assurances they have made are correct. We have not changed the social democrats' position, which we have already expressed when we adopt the Drug Law. We still trust the Ministry and the Government that the proposed solutions have been reasonable, professionally justified and well thought out. However, if we repeat what we have already said, our main concern must be directed towards adequate access to quality, safe and effective medicines for all inhabitants and residents of Slovenia. We hope that all the procedures followed by the Ministry have been pursued and that they are pursuing this objective. However, if it turns out that we have been misled and there are ominous predictions about the absence of drug control, such irresponsible toying with public health and human life will require the full responsibility of those who have signed it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u21	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided today in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, it's on the eve of a bill amending the Consumer Protection Act. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, Mr Peter Vesenjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Minister, Messengers and Messengers, others invited! You have before you the Proposal for a Amendment to the Consumer Protection Act set by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at its 14th regular meeting on 17 December 2014, and the Committee on the Economy adopted a proposal for an amendment with an amendment tabled at its 4th session on 5 February 2015. The amendment removes inconsistencies in the transposition of Article 9.b of Council of Europe Directive 85/374/EEC on the approximation of the laws and regulations of the Member States relating to liability for defective products. The Consumer Protection Act now stipulates that the manufacturer is obliged to repay the damage to other things if the damage exceeds EUR 400, while the directive provides for the contribution of the injured person to the damage of EUR 500, irrespective of the amount of the damage to other things. It is therefore a matter of determining the so-called deductible franchise, which is now in line with this amendment of the law. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the National Assembly to support the proposal of the law and thus ensure the proper transposition of the text of the Directive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u23	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. Margareti Goochek Zakoshek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u24	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, colleagues and distinguished representatives of the government! The Committee on the Economy is at its 4th session. 2. 2015 as a parent labour body, the proposal for a law amending the Consumer Protection Act, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 15th session. 1. 2015 decided that the proposal for a law should be examined in a simplified manner. Representatives of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meeting. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is proposing to the National Assembly that the draft law be examined in a simplified manner, since the proposal provides for less difficult alignment with European Union law. The national legislation is not in accordance with point (b) of Article 9. Council Directive 85/374/EC of 25 July 1985 on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to liability for defective products. The draft law thus eliminates the remaining shortcomings and non-compliance of the current law with the Council Directive. The Committee also received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service of 20. 1. 2015, which examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical legal aspect. In its opinion, the Service also made specific comments to Article 1 of the bill, which were submitted to the proposed amendment of the coalition. In addition, it reiterated that, as already stated by the proposed amendment, consumers are placed in a worse position than under the existing law, especially if, in the light of the revision of the directive, there is a EUR 500 franchise, so it would show how many such procedures are checked and whether it is possible to consider regulating at least those relations where consumers have initiated, in accordance with the existing law, judicial or other legal proceedings provided by Article 4, paragraph 2, of the Act and thus have already incurred costs. These consumers were expected to be compensated under the conditions laid down in the law, so they also initiated procedures taking into account the possibility of success. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u25	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jožef Horvat speaks.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u26	Honourable President of the National Assembly, distinguished colleague and colleague, distinguished representative of the Ministry! Today, the Slovenian consumer is often left to the will of individual companies or individuals engaged in gainful activities. The aim of sellers, to sell as much as possible and to generate as much profit as possible, on the one hand and the objective of consumers, to buy as much as possible for as little money, on the other hand, constitutes a logical conflict of interest, which, despite the various objectives, can be manageable if the laws of both parties provide equal and fair protection. Since our society is extremely consumer, in the New Slovenia Group we are convinced that consumer protection is still particularly important in terms of protecting their rights. How, then, can the right balance be ensured between the responsibility of the producer of the matter and the right of consumers in the event that it bought the product by mistake? How can the injured person be granted the right to reparation if such a product causes damage to another matter due to error? The proposed New Law on Consumer Protection, which, in other words, removes the current shortcomings and non-conformity of the law with the European Directive, raises the threshold of value when the manufacturer, due to an error in the product which caused damage to other things which are usually intended for personal use and which the injured person used mainly for personal use, is obliged to recover the damage caused, and that is all. Now, if the damage is to be recovered by the manufacturer, if the damage is to be more than EUR 400 and the novelty is to be increased, the producer will now be liable to reimburse this damage if it reaches EUR 500. In doing so, we must not overlook the following fact. In view of the amendment to the Directive of the European Union of 18 October 2014, which corrects the dictates of the novel in such a way that they are not only a condition for achieving or exceeding the damage of EUR 500, but also for deducting the franchise at that level. This, however, places the content of the proposed amendment to the Consumer Protection Act in a completely different light. This is therefore a deduction of the EUR 500 franchise and not just a condition for achieving or exceeding the damage at that level. And what does that mean for the victim? Nothing but that, in the case of a claim for compensation, it will be entitled to a smaller amount, so it will be in a worse situation than it is now under the existing law. In fact, the novelty does not bring any added value. In New Slovenia, we also note that in the field of consumer protection we have been doing nothing but harmonising regulations with European Union law for some time now, and still following a reduced procedure. The government does not even have a programme to set priorities in this area, but this area is very important. Given that the proposed amendment to the consumer law does not in fact constitute greater security and does not give the injured person any assurance that he will be entitled to the payment of all the damage, we will not support the Christian Democrats of the amendment proposal, nor will we oppose it. Of course, we expect the Government to draw up this year's key consumer protection priority programme, which today, because of its desire to make a profit, does not, even at the expense of the consumer, guarantee confidence in law as one of the principles of the rule of law, which is in particular the purpose and purpose of the Consumer Protection Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u27	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Ivan Škodnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Greetings from the Ministry, colleagues and fellow Members! Members from the SMC Group of Members will support the correction of the deficiencies in the transposition of point (b) of Article 9 of Council Directive 85/374 EC, thereby harmonising Slovenian legislation with European rules. The proposal for a law deals with the responsibility of manufacturers for fault products, which is intended to be uniform for EU members. The amendment following the proposal of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia provides for the participation of the injured party in damage of EUR 500 irrespective of the amount of damage to other matters. The manufacturer is so obliged to repay the damage to another matter if the damaged thing is usually intended for private use and is mainly used by the injured person for private use, with the contribution of the injured person to the damage of EUR 500. A positive opinion was also given by the State Council in the proposed legislation. The proposed law amending the Consumer Protection Act eliminates potential distortions of competition in the EU and increases the competitiveness of the European market in order to create equal business opportunities and remove barriers to cross-border trade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u29	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u30	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The area of consumer protection in the Republic of Slovenia is regulated by the Consumer Protection Act, which was adopted in 1998 and has legislated certain essential provisions of the European Union Directive. The aim of the adoption of the Consumer Protection Act is to further protect consumers as economically weaker parties in a contractual relationship. The Consumer Protection Act represents a high level of consumer protection, which, in relation to businesses, is mostly the weaker party. The area of consumer protection is rapidly changing due to market developments, and regulations also need to be adapted. The main initiative in this area has been taken by the European Union, which regulates most consumer law through directives. In doing so, it seeks greater harmonisation of legislation, which should also facilitate cross-border trade and strengthen the functioning of our internal market. We therefore have before us, colleagues, a change to the Consumer Protection Act following a reduced procedure. The proposal for a law is intended to eliminate the lack of transposition referred to in Article 9, point (b). The Council of Europe Directive on the approximation of the laws and regulations of the Member States relating to liability for defective products is therefore proposed by the Government to replace the value of EUR 400 with the value of EUR 500 in the second paragraph of Article 4 of the Consumer Protection Act. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, it is recalled that the Official Journal of the European Union, No 300/72 of 18 October 2014, has issued an amendment to this Directive and that the text b of the point now refers to the deduction of the EUR 500 franchise and not only to the condition of exceeding EUR 500 or more. The practice of a number of European countries where consumers expected to be compensated under the conditions of the law, so a number of judicial proceedings have also been initiated, taking into account the possibility of success. However, in the light of the amendment of the legislation, their application was rejected or favoured to a lesser extent and should bear the costs of the procedure in view of their success. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has explained on several occasions that the Constitution does not prevent the provision from modifying certain rights or conditions for their exercise with effect in the future, provided that these amendments do not conflict with the Constitution with a certain principle or other constitutional provisions, in particular the principle of the protection of trust in law as one of the principles of the rule of law referred to in Article 2 of the Constitution. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the law does not affect these rights and that such cases are very rare, so that the state of law of consumers will not deteriorate arbitrarily, so for no real reason. The draft law lays down the scope of responsibility of manufacturers for fault products, which should be uniform for the members of the European Union. Thus, the amount of damage on the other hand due to the producer of the product with the error was limited to EUR 500. Following this in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the amendment of the Consumer Protection Act by means of a reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u31	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Hello again! We have before us a proposal for a law that eliminates the shortcomings of the transposition of the European directive, which sets the value of damage to other things. The Consumer Protection Act in the second chapter governs the responsibility of the manufacturer for defective goods. At EU level, this Directive lays down guidelines for producer liability for damage caused by error on their products and was adopted with a view to bringing EU Member States' laws closer together. The harmonisation of legislation in this area in the Desus Group is of course important to us, as there could be differences, distortions of competition and damage to the free movement of goods on the EU common market. Although the content of the Directive has been transposed into the Slovenian legal order since 1998 by the Consumer Protection Act. However, the later Act on Amendments and Supplements to this Act amended Article 4 of the second chapter concerning the conversion of the currency from the then Slovenian to the new national currency of the euro. Since the conversion of the currency did not take into account changes in the exchange rate ratio, it was inappropriate to transpose the directive, since the law stipulated that the value of the damage to the other thing that the producer was obliged to recover should exceed 400 instead of 500 euros. The European Commission also drew attention to the shortcomings. At the end of the previous year, a revision of the Slovenian language directive was also published in the Official Journal of the EU, which stipulates that this is a deduction of the EUR 500 franchise and not just a condition of exceeding EUR 500 or more. An amendment was therefore tabled by the coalition partners following the revision of the Directive. Thus, the proposed law now obliges the manufacturer to repay the damage to another matter if the damaged matter is usually intended for private use and is mainly used by the injured party for private use, with a complicity of the injured person in the damage of EUR 500. On the question of whether consumers who have already initiated judicial proceedings under the existing law will be put in a worse position, it should be pointed out that on this basis a relatively small number of litigation has been initiated. It follows from publicly available data on case law that since the adoption of the Consumer Protection Act in 1998, only 6 judgments related to the producer’s responsibility have been adopted. These disputes concerned compensation for injury caused by bodily harm and not injury to other things, and the proposed amendment to the law itself did not provide for retroactive force. For the above reasons, we will unanimously support the proposal of the DeSUS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u33	The text is given by the United Left Group, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We will not support the amendment of the Consumer Protection Act in the United Left. Although it is only a matter of technical transposition of the European Directive into Slovenian legislation, we are against it because this change will mean a reduction of consumer rights in Slovenia. The amount to be recovered from the other cause caused by the error in the product increases from EUR 400 to EUR 500. We can say that this is a symbolic amount, but the symbolism of this marriage change is very significant. Consumer rights are sacrificed for the protection of market competition by European Union legislation, which clearly testifies to the nature of the Union as a defender of capital interests to the detriment of labour, social, environmental and consumer rights. The EU force jacket forces a Member State to race to the bottom, to race to the bottom in reducing living standards and the rights mentioned above. In other aspects such as today, Member States are forced to reduce their level of illegal rights in order to comply with the European standard. This is the essence of the European Union, the European Union of Capital and not the European Union of People. However, in recent months, we can observe that neo-liberal consensus prevails, largely because of political changes in Greece, as well as because of the fragile economic recovery that has shown that policies of austerity and belt tightening are not only harmful to society and people, but also to the economy. In the negotiations on the fate of Greece, the Slovenian Government, in particular, took a right-hand side to the capital side. The Slovenian Government advocates a forced vest that reduces consumer rights today, which requires us to tighten the budget belt and sacrifice the standard of living of people. In recent negotiations, the President of the European Commission said: "No democratic decision can be taken against or against the European agreement." This is the ultimate cynicism of European technocrats who have trampled on the independence and dignity of European nations. Therefore, today's change to the detriment of consumer rights, which you will confirm in government parties, is an illustrative example, on the one hand, of the character of the European Union and of Brussels technocracy, and on the other, of the servility and laity of the Government of Mir Cerar and of all past governments to the European Union and the European ruling classes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u35	We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Business Register of Slovenia, Summary Procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, Mr Peter Vesenjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u36	Honourable President of the Assembly, Dr. Brglez, Members and Members of Parliament, colleagues! The proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Business Register Act, proposed by the Government by the adoption of the National Assembly on 27 November 2014, focuses on three areas. For the first time, it partially transposes the provisions of the Directive on the integration of central and commercial registers and company registers into the Slovenian legal order, secondly, the search and review of the Business Registry data is also addressed by individual, thirdly, for the first time since 2006 some of the shortcomings of the existing Act on the Business Register of Slovenia. Initially, we would like to point out that the Slovenian model for the registration of business operators, in particular companies and independent entrepreneurs, represents a model model for the European Union and more broadly. Slovenia, according to international research by World Bank Doing Business in the field of the ease of establishment as a category currently meets 15. The city, which is better for 105 cities than in 2007. Complements of the existing regime in order to address some minor shortcomings of the existing regime will further improve the functioning of the Slovenian registries. With regard to the transposition of the European Directive, the draft law establishes the basis of the IJPES for the transmission of data on regulations and their amendments, which provides for the publication of annual reports and data in the Business Register for publication on the European e-Justice Portal. The draft law also interferes with the provisions of the review of the public data of the Business Register. A search shall be made for the data of the Business Register by individuals which will allow the disclosure of the data in which the person is the founder and representative of the business entities. Today it is only possible to search for business entities, i.e. who is the representative and founder of a business entity, not also or or where all the representatives and founders appear in other business entities. The solution will contribute to the less anonymity of persons involved in legal traffic, resulting in greater transparency and integrity of the management, control and management structures in business entities, and indirectly to the more prudent entry of legal and natural persons into business relations and other legal relations, less risk exposure, less corruption risks, conflicts with interests, greater compliance with legal rules and others. In the course of the debate in the National Assembly, we restricted the use of a search engine per individual only to those business entities which are mainly engaged in profitable activities. We have also extended the search criteria by means of the amendment to limit the possibility of abuses in the search for and view and disclosure of incorrect data on a particular person. Respectable. The measures contained in the bill are only one of the necessary measures that we have already taken or intend to take in order to prevent abuse and unfair and unethical business practices in the business environment, to ensure equal conditions for all business operators on the market and to establish an enabling business environment with it as well as a high level of security in legal traffic. We therefore propose that you support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u37	The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. Margareti Goochek Zakoshek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u38	Thank you, Madam President. All present, once again, welcome! The Committee on the Economy is at its third meeting. 1. 2015 and in the first meeting of the third session. 2. 2015 as a parent working body, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Business Register of Slovenia submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 11th session. 12. 2014 decided that the proposal for a law should be examined in a simplified manner. The Committee was informed by the Legislative and Legal Service of 23. 12. 2014 which examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects. The Service has commented on the principle nature, in particular on the constitutionally protected area of privacy and personal data protection and the derogation from the provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act, which is a system-wide provision in this field. The Committee was also informed of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts and Tourism and Finance of 13. 1. 2015, which supports the proposal of the law. Qualified applicants have not tabled any amendments to the draft law. At the first resumed third meeting of the Committee 5. 2. In 2015, amendments prepared by the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology were submitted to members and members and were also adopted by the Committee in the debate. At the first reading of the draft law at the third session of 14th session. 1. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and the Legal and Legislative Service attended 2015. In the introduction to the explanation of the articles, the Secretary of State explained that the main solutions to the proposed law were: the transposition of the European Directive in the integration of central and commercial registers and company registers, the establishment of a search and view of the business register data also through an individual and the elimination of some minor deficiencies in the existing regime. With regard to the dilemma regarding the search and view of individuals, it was clarified that the proposed solution would contribute to the less anonymity of persons in legal traffic and to greater transparency and integrity of the management, control and management structure by business entities. With regard to the comments of the Legal and Legislative Service, the representative of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology explained that the proposed solution does not change the approach and concept of the applicable law, since all the data already available to users in a specific electronic format but to individual business entities. He stressed that only the way of searching was changing and included additional search criteria, which Slovenian legal order already knows, for example, in the Financial Business Act. Follow-up to the third meeting. 5. 2. Representatives of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and the Ministry of Justice and the Legal and Legislative Service attended 2015. In the supplementary explanation, the Minister of Justice and representatives of the Ministry of Justice provided some clarifications as to the concerns about the compatibility of the bill with the Constitution. This highlighted the need to distinguish this situation from the situation where the Constitutional Court repealed certain provisions of the Real Estate Registration Act, which involved the disclosure of immovable property. It was pointed out by the Constitutional Court that a person in private with regard to information about his or her, for example, health, service or family, is not equal to an individual who enters legal relations. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service further stressed that the service, despite the proposed amendments and further clarifications, insists on some fundamental concerns of a constitutional nature. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee focused on Article 11 and the proposal for an amendment of the Committee to this Article. Some members and members of the Committee supported the proposed solutions to this article of the proposed amendment and the bill as an important step towards increasing transparency, while others opposed the proposed solutions because of the comments of the service which are of a constitutional nature. Following the discussion, the Committee, in accordance with Rule 131 of its Rules of Procedure, adopted amendments to the Committee, namely Articles 8, 11 and 12. He voted on all the articles of the bill together and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law, which forms an integral part of the report of the Committee, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u39	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Alliance's Group of Ambassadors, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u40	Hello! We are still dealing with the last nonsense that is in this package with Minister Klemenčič and the Minister for Economic Affairs, because without him it does not work, because in itself and by nature the Business Register is simply being treated and is the mother of this ministry. How aimless and headless this law is, of course, before us, speaks only of the fact that the representative of the Ministry of Economy on the Committee said the following sentence: The Business Register will allow a man who will seek a job to know in advance who will pay his salary and who will not. With this, we can see more clearly that some very serious consideration in opening up this data for the use of the business register does not show belief. Far from that is also the fact that it is not just something that is promised to people, that it will now be much more transparent; but, above all, it conceals another fact that some in this Chamber do not want to hear – that is, that it interferes with the protection of personal data. Protection in itself – some discussions today will be heard in this direction, when we say, each individual chooses voluntarily when he sets up a company to disclose personal information. I hope we don't fall for this nonsense. The fact is, when a law prescribes something, nothing voluntarily enters the business waters, but a simple law prescribes what will become personal. Therefore, such statements and such discussions are absolutely infertile. The fact is, however, that, unlike the court registry and the business register, who manages whom. The name already says that the court register is administered and administered by the court, in which case it is run by Apes. And Ipes is the one who's going to explain what personal information is. That is true, the following is said to say in a particular sentence, and it is evident from this law, the Business Register Act, which states that the public data of the Business Register are all data on units of the business register other than those specified by a special law as personal data. That's what I'm most afraid of. We get a new big brother, we get some data that the government will simply wash their hands nicely with and say: look, we're doing business, honest, transparent. In fact, you will be able to access information that is familiar to us, not only your name and surname, but also to access information that will be available to everyone. The saddest thing is that we would still understand if we were talking about information about companies, about business entities that are financed or owned by a country or by a local community. No, no, no. We have come to a private sector that has nothing to do with public funds, but on behalf of justice and truth, we are only talking about how everyone needs to know everything. We have also opened Pandora's box to protect personal data in all other areas; because if it is possible to open it with a business register and a court register, why not everything else. Why it can be made public on one occasion in the Business and Court Registry, while it is also ridiculously protected. It is protected in all social work centres, protected in all other legal entities of a public character and on behalf of protected human rights. In addition, let me stress the following. Nor did the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly give a green light to such nonsense as the government proposes. The fact that the legislature has set everything on fire, that's what we've been used to. In all governments. But that the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly says: Oops, the matter is unconstitutional; but no one is interested – neither the Minister of Justice nor the Minister of Economy. And with their coworkers and brushes, they advocate these nonsensees that we have today in the National Assembly. Why is that important? Remember this. You are the authors of what you are opening today and what you will never have to close again. Never again! You signed it yourself, the Alliance certainly didn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u41	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, on her behalf Mrs Marusha Škopac.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Management and maintenance of the Business Register of Slovenia is governed by the Act on the Business Register of Slovenia. The areas are also partly governed by the Companies Act and the Court Register Act. PRS-1 was adopted in 2006 and has not changed since. The proposal for a bill focuses on three areas. It is transposed into the Slovenian legal order by the European Parliament Directive on the integration of central and commercial registers and company registers. Its main purpose is to improve cross-border access to information about companies and their branches in other Member States, which is only possible if all Member States enable electronic communication between registers. Its transposition into the national legal order of the EU Member States will thus ensure that there is no greater difference between their arrangements. The current voluntary cooperation between registers is not sufficient and citizens and businesses still have to look for registers of each country in the vast majority of cases. In this way, users of the European Central Business Register will have easier access to data on companies from the EU and their branches in other Member States. As a result, confidence in cross-border business will increase. The proposal for a new law extends the possibility of searching and looking into the Business Register's data by individual and not just by business entity, as is possible at the moment. In the light of the warnings of the Legal and Legislative Service, we have provided with an amendment to Article 11 of the Law to obtain data only for those persons who perform representation functions in the Units of the Business Register or who have the status of founder in the Units of the Business Register. Following the example of Article 122 of the Financial Action Act, insolvency and forced termination procedures, it is proposed that search criteria for natural persons are a combination of personal name, EMHO or a combination of personal name and tax number. The proposed arrangement means that in such a search all the required elements of the combination will have to be matched so that the interested party can obtain the desired information. This means that it will not be possible to search only by personal name, but the interested party will have to have some information on the person whose function or status it will wish to verify in the various units of the Business Register. Such a decision of the search mark requires the interested party to provide a sufficiently specific definition of the person, which indirectly shows that it has already been in business with him or her or has shown an interest in doing business with that Unit of the Business Register when it examined its representatives and founders. These search criteria will thus allow for accurate data on a single individual. As has already been pointed out in the discussions so far, the data in which the person is the founder, representative, member or supervisory authority, can already be obtained from the various market providers that have obtained the Business Register database from Apes. The only difference is that these data are now available against payment, and after the adoption of the amendment, these data will be available to all for free. The proposed solution shall in no way affect the existing data management and processing system in the Business Registry and the publication of public data on the Units of the Business Register. The function or status of a person in a particular Business Register is already public data under the applicable legislation and therefore proposes a way of searching for data that will allow the identification of all business entities in which a particular person performs a particular function or has a status, allowing only access to such data in a different way. The fact is that the proposed solution will contribute to the less anonymity of persons involved in legal transport and, consequently, to greater transparency and integrity of the governance, control and management structure. It will also indirectly influence the more prudent entry of business partners into business relations and other legal relations, the reduction of corruption risks, conflicts of interest, greater compliance with legal rules, the reduction of cases of damage to creditors and third parties. Transparency and the right to know in modern society are of paramount importance in ensuring democracy, increasing the responsibility of public function holders, reducing the risk of poor governance, abuse, power and corruption, and more prudent and efficient use of public funds. And since we support all of this in the SMC, we will also support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on the Business Register of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u43	The Member Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Franz Breznik, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u44	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Business Register Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. The main solutions to the proposed law are: transposition of the European Directive on the integration of central and commercial registers and company registers. Secondly, the establishment of a search and look into the business register data also by individual. Thirdly, the removal of some minor deficiencies in the existing regime. With regard to the dilemma relating to the search and view of individuals, it was explained in the first reading that the proposed solution would contribute to the less anonymity of persons in legal traffic and to the greater transparency of the integrity of the management, control and management structure in business entities. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly made comments which were of a principled nature, which we were also very fond of in the Slovenian Democratic Party at least in the beginning. We have questioned the proposed amendment to the law, in particular as regards the constitutionally protected area of privacy and personal data protection and the derogation from the provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act, which is a system-wide regulation in this area. The Service also made specific comments to the individual Article of the draft law, namely Articles 5, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12 of the draft law, as well as to Article 25 of the current Act on the Business Register of the Republic of Slovenia, which is not amended by the proposal of the law to this extent. The proposed arrangement means that, after such a search, all the required elements of the combination will have to be matched so that the interested party can obtain the required information. This means that it will not be possible to search only by personal name, but the interested party will have to have certain information on the person whose function or status in the various units of the Business Register will want to verify. Such determination of the search mark requires that the interested party provide a sufficiently specific definition of the person, which indirectly shows that it could have already been in business with her if she thus obtained data on the single national home number, tax number or address; or has shown interest in doing business with this business register unit when checking its representatives and founders. These search criteria will thus enable the accurate data to be obtained by a specific natural person. Taking into account the market situation where there is a chain of undertakings and the transfer of ownership, the rule of law’s purpose as an argument for the proposed solution was to allow, in terms of transport safety, at least a minimum standard in the field of business for those who are engaged in business relations. The Ministry stressed that the proposed amendments introduce a solution covering a narrower range of entities, namely those which are registered in the Court Register and are companies; or business entities that carry out a profitable activity or are in a business relationship. In addition, the proposed amendments add combinations of search marks, which means that an individual concerned must already have certain information about the entities to access the data. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that the proposal for a law is not constitutionally controversial and that the purpose of the proposed solutions is not to prevent the chaining of businesses, but to create greater transparency in business relations. They would point out once again that all the data already mentioned by individual companies are available free of charge and, according to the other search elements, are available against a payment that most of the smaller operators have not been able to afford so far. On the one hand, we have a tremendous resistance to certain IT companies dealing with this data and are charging – at least for smaller businesses entering the market – abnormally high amounts that these smaller entities cannot afford. And here we see some resistance from certain parliamentary groups. The proposal for a law is designed to partially harmonise legislation with European Directive 212/17/EU and the implementation of the law constitutes a further step towards the intended development, management and integration of data between the Member States' business registers for comprehensive cross-border access to company data. As a result of all of this, we will support amendments to the Act on the Business Register of Slovenia in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group following a reduced procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u45	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Uroš Prikl, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u46	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! Of course, we will also support the proposal in the Desus Group. Let me briefly present our position on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Business Register of Slovenia. The proposal for a new law partially transposes the provisions of the Directive of the European Union on the integration of central and commercial registers and company registers into our legal order, bringing together all Member States' business registers. This is expected to strengthen confidence in cross-border business. Novela also brings smaller additions to the current law since 2006. Under the new regulation, responsibility for the management of transaction accounts data at home and abroad will be assumed by Apes and the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. It will also allow for greater accuracy and up-to-date data by automatically downloading some data from the Central Population Register, which is also maintained in the Business Register. The greatest attention and debates between coalition members at meetings and coordinations, at the meetings of the home working body and also in the public have been given to the establishment of a search and insight into the data of the Business Register – a so-called search for individuals. The draft law initially provided that everyone was allowed to search and see the data contained in the Business Register in order to determine whether a particular person was an agent, founder or other person entered in the register; that is, by way of individual search. The legislative and legal service has expressed serious concerns in terms of interfering with the constitutionally guaranteed protection of personal data. This provision has been amended following an examination of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, namely that the amendment of the coalition groups was adopted at the meeting of the Committee, so that the amended proposal of the law now provides that the registry administrator may search and inspect this data in such a way as to enable the search of natural persons only by using a combination of a personal name, including either an EMHO, a tax number or a residence address; and for legal persons using a company, name, home or tax number. It is therefore a search for a combination of search criteria and not just by personal name, which also allows for greater security of personal data, which it has pointed to, as has already been said, the Legislative and Legal Service. In the Desus Group, we support this arrangement despite some of the concerns we had at the outset when we faced opposition opinions. And why did we make that decision? The function or status of a person in a particular business entity is already public under the applicable law. It is worth noting that it is necessary to distinguish between the protection of personal data of a natural person and of an individual; it is slightly different if that natural person is also an entrepreneur. It is also important to stress the fact that these data are already being made available by market providers who have obtained the Business Register database from Apes. It has also been possible since 2009 to obtain the entire database of the Business Register, which technically allows for the search by name and surname of the individual and his functions, in the context of the re-use of data under the Public Information Access Act. Finally, this data already offers more and more private agencies, but pay attention – not for free. They are accessible to those who are willing to pay them or who are able to pay them, such as large companies and, above all, media houses. The purpose of this amendment is to give everyone access. It is also worth mentioning here that such arrangements are known by many European countries, including Scandinavians, with whom we often like to compare ourselves. In the Desus Group, we believe that this change will contribute to greater transparency in the business environment, to reducing corruption risks and to reducing cases of damage to creditors and third parties. As a result, this will also lead to restrictions on the so-called chain of undertakings, which will preserve the protection or protection of personal data of the individual, which is essential. For all of this, we will support the proposal of law in the Desus Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u47	The text shall be given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Andreja Katič, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u48	Thank you, President. The rules of the Business Register Act mainly contain compliance with EU law and less complex amendments, which are not entirely irrelevant to the content. Social Democrats welcome the proposed solution in the law, which, despite some of the concerns expressed, we believe is absolutely necessary. This is a solution set out in Article 11 of the proposal, which extends the possibility of searching and looking into the public data of the Business Register. The search criteria are specified. The proposed solution is in the function of creating greater transparency in business relations, preventing corruption and conflicts of interest. In this respect, it is worth noting that all data from individual companies are already available free of charge and are available against payment for the other search elements. In 2013, the Labour Inspectorate found 9 000 762 violations in the field of labour relations. Some such practices include chaining companies, setting up straw companies and setting up companies in stock. The consequences of these practices are felt by business partners, workers, other persons and the country in the exercise of their official function. At the same time, it is not too important to point out that such unfair practices destroy the rule of law and the social state. A number of measures have been taken since 2011 to limit certain unfair business practices, such as public disclosure of taxpayers, restrictions on the establishment of companies and espies and the acquisition of business shares by businesses of unfair natural and legal persons. We expect the Social Democrats to be in the legislative process by summer at the latest a new Law on Economic Companies, which will be supplemented by solutions to upgrade the measures already taken to combat unfair business practices. We expect that a ban will also be added to the provisions concerning restrictions on the establishment of enterprises for all those to whom the labour inspectorate will issue a legal decision concerning payment for work or on employment in black; that it will include solutions to eliminate the anomaly in the operations of companies, companies without management, without shareholders, without transaction accounts and chaining companies. Some employers use different ways to avoid paying their salaries and other obligations to their employees. People also find it difficult to accept the fact that they have lost their jobs, so they are willing to accept everything. In exchange for their employment in the new company, they give up their retirement and unpaid salaries; many times they find that they have been played again, that the new employer is related to the previous one and also does not fulfil their obligations. However, workers are deprived of all rights due to an agreed break in the employment relationship with the first employer. While the new labour legislation protects workers, the question is how many workers are even aware, for example, of the right to an exceptional termination of the worker's employment relationship if the employer fails to pay him twice in a row. Acquainting with this provision is extremely important for the worker, since in such a case he ensures that he retains all rights, including the receipt of compensation and the application at the institution. We have written in our electoral programme that we will also advocate the introduction of the so-called Civil Charter and a clear summary of the individual law. For we believe that each person must be aware of his or her rights in order to protect his or her interests. Anomalies in the labour market should be prevented. In bankruptcy proceedings, workers who have created a mass of bankruptcy often lose everything. They are the first to pay for the sins of bad governance, and overlook when the profits they have made are shared. That's not right. We have a full mouth of words about raising economic growth and competitiveness, but there is a blinded view of the situation that follows after capital accumulation. We are talking about a socially responsible economy, and we should talk about a labour economy. We may have come a little bit in our position, but the Social Democrats believe that the injustices experienced by workers and unfair business practices must always be clearly pointed out and required appropriate action. Social Democrats see the proposed solutions in the proposed amendment to the Law on the Business Register of Slovenia as helping to build a defence wall against abuse and protecting people from exploitation – and that is why we will support them.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u49	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, on her behalf by Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u50	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Good-bye, everybody! In the United Left, we support changes to the law. Above all, his intention is on paper, but we are much more reserved for its actual consequences. They bring more democraticism and transparency, but for a drop into the sea, they solve the problem of abuse by chaining businesses, setting up straw companies and companies for sale, allowing for the fraud and brutal exploitation of workers. It should be stressed that the main condition for reducing or eliminating infringements of labour rights is economic democracy or labour management. This means that employees will not be left to the administrations or owners and managers for mercy and mercy, but will participate in the management of businesses and have democratic mechanisms to ensure their rights and interests, and to influence managers and owners. This does not mean that the non-payment of contributions resulting from the chaining of undertakings and similar practices could not be prevented. The Act on Economic Companies should be amended. An example of a change may already be that of a nearby Austria. The amendment of the Business Register Act is a step in the right direction, but even now most individuals who take advantage of fraud and illegal exploitation are known. Legislative changes that are urgent must give the official authorities sufficient authority to prosecute and sanction such practices. The question is whether there is a political will to do this. Without control and sanctioning attempts to improve remain a dead letter on paper. 80 inspectors and inspectors for more than 190,000 business entities. Chief Inspector Natasa Trček also publicly pointed to this problem. The imagination of some entrepreneurs to find a way past legislation and to find new ways of abuse of labour rights has no limits. In the United Left, we support steps in a direction that ensures more democracy and transparency. The fact that the public has access to company chain data and all related data is, of course, welcome. But that's certainly not enough. The same country, which will now allow public access to the Business and Judicial Register, has allowed or allowed all small and large tycoons to establish businesses at the daily level. It did not have the desired effects in the past, either, and only to increase transparency. The publication of taxable persons not accompanied by a system-wide solution to prevent such practices did not have the desired effects. Nor did the desired effects have an insight into paid contributions to workers, since capital owners still use their most vulnerable jobs extremely today and do not provide them with a decent payment or regularly pay their basic contributions. At the same time, we do not understand the objection repeated by some parties in order to compromise the protection of personal data by name and surname. As protected by the Constitution, Article 67 also makes it clear that property has an economic, social and environmental function. An individual enters public economic life by setting up an economic society, which means that it is not only his private interests but the interests of the whole society. In the name of neoliberalism, the protection of personal data often involves a shrine that impedes the implementation of positive legislation. The right to the protection of personal data must not prevent the exercise of the right to pay; not only because it is not only an abstract right, but often the bare survival of the most exploited workers. In the Group of Members, the United Left supports all proposals that go towards democratisation and greater transparency. We will also support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Business Register Act. At the same time, we call on the Government to prepare additional appropriate solutions to prevent abuse and protect fundamental rights of employment to pay and to pay social contributions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u51	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, on her behalf Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u52	Your Honor! The principle of integrity and fairness in civil law relations is a fundamental principle under which all stakeholders must act in the business world. The business of economic operators must be based on the mutual trust of business partners and the State must establish and provide appropriate infrastructure, appropriate mechanisms that prevent and sanction abuses. Is that true? In recent years, we have seen many cases where companies and business entities do not comply with this principle. The issue of the safety of legal transport on the one hand and of the safety of public interest on the other is also a matter of many times. Taking into account the proportionality test, we find that the right to the protection of personal data is not absolute, since even the Constitution allows for restrictions if, of course, there is a public benefit for them. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that everyone who enters into business relations with his business partner must know that this takes full responsibility, including for all the data relating to his business. Only through such a relationship and behaviour can we provide the public with information that is crucial to the effective management of the risks of business operators when entering into business contacts with their business partners. This is where it will be the duty of the State to allow, in terms of legal certainty, at least a minimum standard in the field of economic activity for those entering into these business relations. For each gainful activity, a system of public oversight or public scrutiny of data relating to the business of a business entity must be established. To ensure this, we only add the possibility of searching and looking into the data of the business register by individual. At the same time, Christian Democrats stress that all data are already available to users in electronic form, and the only difference is that the search is possible only by a single business entity. Therefore, only a search method is changing, which includes an additional search criteria, which the Slovenian legal order already knows, for example, in the Financial Business Act. Also in terms of the management and integration of data between the business registers of the Member States of the European Union, comprehensive cross-border access to data on companies is of paramount importance. Only in this way can the functioning of the market as public goods be ensured in all Member States. Members of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will support the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Business Register of Slovenia because we believe that this is a measure that will bring more order and legal certainty into our business environment. At the same time, we believe that the proposal for amendments and additions is without prejudice to the constitutionally protected area of personal data to the extent that it might question their constitutionality, and thus overlook the purpose of the amendment of the law, which is a public interest. We are convinced that this must prevail in the business of business operators, because by entering the business world, where each individual enters voluntarily, the level of privacy of each individual decreases or becomes more widely accessible. In our belief, honest individuals will not be harmed by such widespread access to their information.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u53	We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Holidays Act and the Free Days Act in the Republic of Slovenia, after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by Mr Marjan Dolinšek. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the proposaler, Mr Marjan Dolinšk.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Formally, Slovenia has become a sovereign state 25. 6. 1991 by announcing the Basic Constitutional Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia. At that time, the Yugoslav People's Army continued to operate under the watchful control of the defence and security forces of the Republic of Slovenia. In October 1991, and more precisely on 25 October 1991, at 23.45 Slovenian territory left the last soldier of the Yugoslav People's Army, then foreign military forces. On this day, Slovenia has not only become formal, but also has actually become the sovereign country that we have been and are proud of today. From this point forward, only the Territorial Defence or the Slovenian Army has taken care of defence security; and the Slovenian police and other authorities have taken care of the internal security of the Republic of Slovenia. In the months following, our country has become an internationally recognised member of the family of European nations and a full member of the United Nations. Our ancestors ’ wishes have come true, so that one day we may live alone or at least their descendants in our own and sovereign country. It is the expression of sovereignty and sovereignty that the many important representatives of Slovenia have stressed in their performances on national and other important holidays at home, as well as in international organisations and associations whose full-fledged membership has become our country. Therefore, on the basis of the initiative expressed by the Association of War Veterans for Slovenia and the Northern Police Veteran Society, I propose that the National Assembly announce October 25, 1991 as a day of sovereignty. A day of sovereignty that should be celebrated and celebrated for citizens and citizens, when we fought for centuries in a sovereign state. We want this day of remembrance to be a time of unity, pride, and self-confidence for all that has kept us as a nation and preserved us through the centuries. Thus we would no longer celebrate October 25th as the day of the departure of the last soldier of the Yugoslav People's Army, but rather as a day of sovereignty. The concept of sovereignty can be understood in connection with the people, the people, the country and human rights and freedoms. Therefore, the day of sovereignty on the day of statehood and the day of independence and unity should remind us of respect for human rights and freedoms and humanity, which is the goal of real sovereignty in the realization of our constitutional democracy. May the day of sovereignty also remind us that what has preserved us through the centuries must be preserved and nurtured more intensely than ever before in our turbulent history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u55	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Uroš Pikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u56	Dear Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues, once again welcome! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, as a working mother, considered the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on Holidays and Work of Days in the Republic of Slovenia, submitted to the National Assembly by our colleague, Mr Marjan Dolinšek, with a proposal for the consideration and adoption of a bill following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly also confirmed the procedure. The Committee was attended by a proposaler, representatives of the Government – Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, representative of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, and representative of the Union of Veterans of the War on Slovenia and the Association of the North. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects and made specific comments to Article 1. The Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, which supports the proposed amendments. However, the Commission has specifically pointed out that in the event of the adoption of the law it will also be necessary to find a suitable way to celebrate that holiday and to ensure that citizens can once again feel respect and pride when marking this and other important events in national history. In its written opinion, the government does not oppose the proposed changes and additions to the holiday and work arrangements in the Republic of Slovenia. The amendments were tabled by the Group of Members of the United Left and by Member Marjan Dolinšek. The motion for a bill stressed that it would be right for October 25 to become a day of remembrance for a time of unity, pride and self-confidence. It would draw attention to respect for human rights and freedoms and would also emphasize and consolidate the importance of the sovereign state. In the debate held on Article 1 of the draft law and the amended amendment of the Group of Members, the United Left was proposed to return as part of the day off on 2 January, the position was expressed that that day should be considered as part of the day off, since there were no official data to confirm that the termination of the day off had positive effects. The opponents of this proposal stressed that the proposal has been made without a thorough consideration that we have many holidays, since we are comparable in this area to the smaller European countries, which are on the basis of the number of holidays over the European average. In their view, neither does the amendment's proposal state that there will be no budgetary implications or even savings. However, all the debaters agreed that the bill was a good proposal to be supported, because it really strengthens the importance of the sovereign state, as also stated in the introduction by colleague Dolinšek, and affects national consciousness. The representatives of the Federation of Veterans of the War on Slovenia and the North Association thanked the bill's proposer, who, at their initiative, introduced the proposed law into the legislative procedure, as well as the members of the Committee for Expressed Support to the proposal under consideration. Let me get this straight. The Committee adopted the amendment of Mr Marjan Dolinsk but did not adopt the amendment of the Joint Left Group. The Committee adopted both articles. A supplemental bill is prepared, as you received with the material. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u57	Thank you. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Here you are, Mr Peter Pogačar, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u58	Madam Vice President, honourable Members, honourable Members! Mr Dolinšek submitted to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption, following a reduced procedure, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on Holidays and Work of the Leisure Days, proposing that, as a holiday in the Republic of Slovenia, it be further defined on 25 October as a day of sovereignty, highlighting and consolidating the importance of the sovereign State; this day does not predetermine as a day off. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia notes in relation to the above that the area of holidays and holidays is regulated by the Holidays and Work Act. The definitions of holidays and holidays after this law are also linked to solutions in labour legislation that give workers the right to work away from work on a holiday and work day, with the right to pay compensation or to a specific evaluation of work if workers have to work on this day because of the continuous work or production process or the specific nature of work. The Holidays and Work Act defines 12 days as State holidays, 4 of which are not defined as part of a day off; and 6 days off that have a religious mark. According to the Government, the arrangements in the Republic of Slovenia are comparable to those in other European countries, where the number of vacation days varies from 10 to 15. With regard to the structure of holidays across European countries, we can find that in most of the countries compared, the majority of the holidays are religious, and in addition to the new year and holiday work, the holiday celebration is linked to the statehood of each country, limited to two days. According to the current Slovenian law, the two holidays mark important events for Slovenia's independence and statehood in 1990 and 1991; and the 27th April marks a rebellion against the invader in World War II. These holidays are also part of the day off. We agree that the proposed marking is on 25 October, when in 1991, the last soldier of the Yugoslav People's Army left Slovenian territory, doubtless for an important event for the statehood and independence of the Republic of Slovenia, which, according to many citizens, represents the summit and, at the same time, the end of events in the process of Slovenian independence; and it should be properly marked. The government does not oppose the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u59	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The SMC Group, Mrs Janja Slug, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u60	Madam President, thank you so much for your words. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The relationship to holidays is extremely important for individuals and society. It shows a relationship to history, to people, and to the society in which we live. At the same time, our relationship with the festivals shows understanding the meaning of historical memory and national consciousness. When we talk about the history of Slovenia, we often point out that it is among the younger countries. Many people do not know or remember most of the historical facts that have marked Slovenia's society, culture, customs, customs and language in the past. We know that the territory of today's Slovenia has been ruled by foreigners or other peoples and nations until the 20th century. There is also almost no individual who would not have known of the brief existence of the Principality of Karatania, of the heritage of the Roman Empire and of the many paths that the Romans built on their march to conquer other territories, and on which they developed the first places also in Slovenia. We also know that in the 15th and 16th centuries, Turkish declines took place in the Slovenian territory; that most of the time we were under the reign of Habsburgs and later of Austro-Hungarians. The first Slovenian word, written in Latin, dates back to the 10th century and is written in the Brižinski monuments. The first book in Slovenian was published in 1550 from under the Peres of Primož Trubar. The first translation of the Bible into Slovenian by Yuri Dalmatina was published in 1584. The first half of the 19th century was marked by the works of France Prešerna, with which he put the Slovenian language side by side with other European languages and cultures. We received the Slovenian political programme United Slovenia in 1848. At that time our ancestors demanded the equality of the Slovenian language and the integration of Kranjska, Štajerska, Primorje and Koroška into the common Kingdom of Slovenia. In 1918 we lived with the Yugoslav nations in the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes for a short time. In 1929 we became part of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, and by 1991 we were part of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The determination, courage and conviction of independence and independence led us to the first democratic elections in the Assembly of the Socialist Republic of Slovenia in April 1990, which adopted the Law on plebiscite on the Independence and Independence of the Republic of Slovenia in December of the same year. At the plebiscite on 23 December 1990, 88% of all electoral beneficiaries decided to be independent and independent Republic of Slovenia. The official declaration of the results of the plebiscite followed on December 26 of that year, and this day we declared a holiday — a day of independence and unity. Other important events followed the process of independence of Slovenia. On 25 June 1991, the Slovenian Parliament adopted the Constitutional Law for the Implementation of the Basic Constitutional Charter on the Independence and Independence of Slovenia. We also declared this day a holiday. By April 1992, Slovenia had recognised 29 countries. That same year we were admitted to the UN, a year later to the Council of Europe, and Slovenia has been a member of the European Union since 2004. We forgot, however, that with the departure of the last JLA soldier on 25 October 1991, the complete sovereignty of Slovenia was established. On the website of the Slovenian Armed Forces they wrote: The departure of the last soldier is seen by many as the top of the process of Slovenian independence. With the departure of the last soldier, the Ministry of Defence took over all military facilities in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The territorial defense became the only legal military force in the area of the independent state. On the night of 25th to 26th October, a ship sailed from the port of Koper with the last soldiers of the Yugoslav army. The last soldiers of JLA boarded a ship under foreign flags and were therefore subject to international law to foreign territory. Thus it can be said that by midnight 25 October 1991, the Slovenian territory had left the last soldier of the Yugoslav army. In the SMC Group, we will support the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u61	Thank you. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group will be presented by Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u62	Your Honor! One of the fundamental values of the Slovenian Democratic Party is patriotism. The SDS is the political party that has been present in the Slovenian political space since the beginning of the independent Republic of Slovenia. We have thus made an important contribution to the independence of the Republic of Slovenia, in addition to being recognised by the other countries. Throughout history, the SDS has advocated the development of the Republic of Slovenia and thus the welfare of citizens and citizens. We have been constructively involved in the integration of Slovenia into the European Union and NATO. We have successfully led the government in the 2004-2008 mandate and have also chaired the European Union at this time. That Slovenia could develop to this extent and actively enter the international political space as a sovereign state, it was crucial that we were independent. The Slovenian Democratic Party is a party based on Slovenian spring, since this period of history of the Slovenian people is the most important to us. The then SFRJ authorities were working hard to suppress Slovenia's independence before it even happened. Because of their failure to do so, the newly formed nation was confronted with military aggression. Thus we witnessed a ten-day war in Slovenia, in which we successfully defended our new country, Slovenia and Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that we are not aware of this chapter of Slovenian history, so we welcome any proposal aimed at raising awareness among citizens and citizens of events during this important period. Therefore, in the SDS, we welcome the proposal of Ambassador Marjan Dolinska to mark 25 October as a state holiday, the day of sovereignty when the last soldier of JLA left Slovenia. Unfortunately, however, many of their supporters are still in Slovenia. They work daily to rehabilitate JLA and aggression against Slovenia. But this is a topic for another debate. Today we have before us a proposal for a holiday that brought the Slovenians together and brought them together. We hope to celebrate it in such a spirit in the future. This is why we will support the proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party. In doing so, it is important not only to be a holiday on paper, but in fact to be a day dedicated to the memory and marking of a day which, according to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, means the end of the self-sustainment process. Good luck!
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u63	Thank you. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u64	Madam Vice-President, thank you very much again for this. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposed novel of the Holidays and Work Act in our country marks 25 October as a day of sovereignty, which, according to the proposaler, would highlight and consolidate the importance of the sovereign state. Of course, we agree, and we will be very happy to support the new law. Marking 25 October — the day the last soldier of JLA left the territory of Slovenia would be a day of remembrance of times of unity, of times of pride, of times of hope and of times of confidence. According to the proposaler, this day would draw attention to respect for human rights, freedoms and humanity, which is the objective of real sovereignty in the realization of our constitutional democracy. In the Desus Group, we agree with all of the above. It will also be important to find a suitable way to celebrate this day, and to make sure that the new holiday connects us even more, giving us more pride, optimism, hope; but it does not separate us in any way. It is important to be aware that, in order to be proud of our sovereignty, citizens need much more than just identifying one more in a series of holidays. In doing so, we Members and other holders of public powers and functions play a major role. For a country that we can be proud of, we must strive to find solutions to strengthen our economy; ensure that young people have a perspective, jobs and do not think about leaving the country and going to work abroad. We must also ensure that our pensioners do not receive pensions that will be miserable, which will not allow them a decent life. We must not forget all the other socially disadvantaged target groups. All must be provided with a life of dignity, unconditionally — now and at the moment. October 25th will not be a day off, but after the adoption of the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors, the United Left would again be free on January 2nd. Unfortunately, this proposal was not accepted or rejected by the Committee. Today, we will discuss it again, as the Group of Members of the United Left has re tabled the amendment. In the Desus Group we will support this amendment with a large majority, because we are not convinced by all those who say that it means work free day, so in this case January 2nd, almost economic collapse. We are convinced that this day means a great deal to people. A satisfied worker is also a successful and productive worker. So, in conclusion, twice yes. For the first time, yes, absolutely, for the proposal of the law, which puts on the calendar of the holidays October 25 – the day of sovereignty; and with the vast majority of the votes of the Desus Group "yes" for January 2nd – works the day off. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u65	Thank you. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mrs Marija Bacič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u66	Dear Madam Vice-President, distinguished members of the Government, colleague and colleague! We have before us a proposal for a law that gives us the Slovenians a new holiday – a day of sovereignty that will mark the moment when the last soldier of the Yugoslav People's Army has left our territory and this day has actually confirmed the sovereignty of our country. The Slovenians celebrate most of the national holidays in remembrance of our struggle for freedom, democracy, independence and independence. Such a message value also comes with a proposal for a new holiday — a day of sovereignty that we will mark on October 25 and will not be a day off. It is important to stress in this regard that the celebration of events, which also mark the foundations of our statehood at a symbolic level, requires a great deal of attention. This must be all the more pronounced among those who are more distant in time, because we must not allow time to fade the memories of actions that have made an important contribution to today's freedom and to decide in our own country independently and democratically on our own destiny and development. We Slovenians had to defend our freedom, fight and resist the aggressor in 1941 and 1991. We were both successful only because we were united. Our national liberation battle in 1941 provided us with victory and liberation and thus created the basis for the beginning and development of our own statehood. But unfortunately, it is this very fight that is still trying to defamate and deny itself. Such conduct is unacceptable and cannot be considered to be historically justified, well-intentioned, or right. When we had enough centralist policy in the common country to stifle and prevent democratic development and equality of nations, we were united in achieving our independence and statehood, which we proudly proclaimed on 25 June 1991. And when JLA's military forces denied making a decision on plebiscite, we also firmly said no to this aggression. But they also own this fight and try to reverse it because of their current political interests. Historic facts falsify, but they are indisputable. Attempts to revalue history are not foreign. They mean another step more than reconciliation, which at the moment is nothing more than a word that some have already deliberately abused and caused new divisions. It is necessary to realize that reconciliation is possible only in respect of history. It would be time to stop arguing about the past. Social Democrats doubt that our citizens and citizens of Slovenia have decided on the plebiscite to be a country in which the values of NOB and the partisan struggle will be questioned, as well as all efforts for Slovenian statehood and many established social and political rights, in which capital will prevail to this extent in order to continuously increase the poor and, on the other hand, the immeasurable wealth of a small group of modern capitalists. Our country and our people need no more divisions. At the moment, it is important for them to maintain a unified national consciousness and thus strengthen our position in the global space. The future is particularly important for citizens and citizens of Slovenia. It is important whether they will live in a country that respects human rights and the rule of law, in which conditions will be provided for them to be able to secure a decent life and development through their work. Politics and decisions need to get closer to people and their problems and stop dealing primarily with themselves. She needs to become more honest, honest, and human. Social Democrats will support the bill and we will also support the amendment of the United Left, which redefines January 2nd as a day off. We believe that the economic effects envisaged by the abolition have not been demonstrated and that it is appropriate for workers to have this right returned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u67	Thank you. The position of the Joint Left Group will be presented by Mrs Violeta Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. Citizens accompanying meetings of the National Assembly often find that Members are dealing with things that do not contribute to the progress of the state and the well-being of the population. The proposal we have before us is of this kind. Although it has a good purpose, the only tangible effect of the new holidays, which are not part of the day off, is the new countries of celebration. Politicians will get a chance to set up the cameras again, as if there weren't too many of them everywhere. However, it is very likely that disputes about whose celebration is the real one, such as the celebration of December 20th last year, will be re-emphasized. So much for that. The law will make sense if he and he are back to work on January 2nd. This would directly benefit the 700,000 employees who still have the right to paid holidays and their families. Since 2012, the holiday law has been recut. It no longer provides for a day off on 2 January. This was only one measure in the offensive of the right-wing coalition against labour and social rights, called the ZUJF. The then coalition violated constitutional rights for more than 26,000 pensioners, reduced income for recipients of social assistance and paid public servants. Employees in the Republic of Slovenia must work more for the same salary for the end of January 2nd as a holiday. The labor movement has been working for 150 years to reduce working time. The tendency in Europe and Slovenia is that, despite technological progress, those with jobs are working increasingly and more intensively. On the other hand, there are increasing numbers of people who, despite their knowledge, education, and abilities, cannot get a job or have to do a leisurely job without rights. Our economy has been at a level of development for some time now, when productivity increases with improvements in the organisation, by co-decision between employees; not by extending working time. I firmly believe that we want to live in a society where it will be valid to work to live; and not to live to work. Let me re-emphasize. The only indisputable fact with regard to 2 January is that employees have to work more on equal pay as a holiday on 2 January. The only ones who benefit from this are capital owners and management. It is often said that such measures should be saved in the public sector – this is not true. On 13 February last year, the Ministry of the Interior wrote: "If January 2nd became a day off, it would be a cost savings due to non-payment of the food regression for all employees in the public sector of EUR 611 000 414, which does not include compensation for transport." In the same reply they state the opinion of the Slovenian Tourist Hotel Chamber that the impact of the reduction in the number of days off is negative. During this time, they have fewer guests, while the staff in the guesthouses work on holidays anyway. In short, all discussions on the impact of working days on the public sector and the economy are speculation. The next indisputable fact is that a Slovenian worker works almost two and a half hours a week more than an average European worker; this means that he would bring an additional day off in one month. In 2012, the change was based on the fact that this would contribute to economic growth. What irony! In 2012, when the law was adopted, Slovenia’s gross domestic product fell by 2.6 % due to its failure to save gross domestic product. This was the third biggest fall in the euro area, immediately for Greece and Portugal. In 2013, when the first working day was 2 January, GDP fell by 1 %, economic and public financial policies were flawed. At that time, we could have put an end to all our days off, and nothing would have helped. The termination on 2 January as a holiday was carried out at the expense of the staff. It has not benefited the development of the country and the welfare of the citizens, so today in the United Left Group we will vote to make the day off again on 2 January. We also call on members of the coalition to listen to their minds and not to the party's command. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u69	Thank you. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be presented by Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u70	Thank you, Madam President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! New Slovenia – Christian Democrats are a party to tradition and patriotism. We respect and love our country, family, nation, language, culture and cultural heritage. Independent and independent Slovenia is our country, which we respect and love, so we want to work for it honestly, responsiblely and in the spirit of a good master. We are proud of our homeland, Slovenia, its independence, and above all the creation of democracy and the laying of the foundations of a new country in the 1990s. To a large extent, the founders of Slovenia were also members of the party of Slovenian Christian Democrats, the transition of Nova Slovenije, together with their founder and the first president of the Slovenian government, Lojzet Peterlet. The historic dream of the Slovenian people came true with this act. We are grateful to all Slovenian patriots who have advocated the preservation and development of Slovenia and have helped to realize the dream of our grandfathers. We are grateful to all Slovenians and Slovene citizens who decided at the 1990 referendum to take their own path and defend their homeland during the aggression of the Yugoslav People's Army. We are also grateful to all those who risked their lives or health, property and other for Slovenia's independence. The proposed novel of the Holidays and Work Act proposes a solution that is in line with the basic programme of the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, which is 25 October – the day the last soldier of the Yugoslav Army left the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and is indeed an important date. We believe it is appropriate and good to mark it — as proposed — as a day of sovereignty. Christian Democrats welcome the proposal for a novel, and on this occasion we call on all those responsible to integrate the content of the period of independence more into curricula and subjects in primary and especially in secondary schools. We advocate patriotic education that will promote love and respect for our country, our nation, our country and its symbols, our culture, our cultural heritage, our traditions and our Christian and human values. The history of independent Slovenia must be taught as a very important part of our national history and be accurately recorded in all history textbooks. The proposed novel shows a positive attitude of the proposer towards these values and is a step in the right direction. This is why the Members of New Slovenia will support the novel.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u71	Thank you. Mr Jani Möderndorfer will present the position of the Allied Group of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u72	Good day for the last time today behind this pay phone. Now there is a law before us, which has been tabled by a Member with a good purpose by Marjan Dolinšek, for which we thank him and welcome a new holiday. And in this way we also show the relationship and what question we have to a certain period in the history of Slovenia. At the same time, I think it is particularly important to stress that we finally have one small and beautiful opportunity today to correct past mistakes. The mistake made by the ZUJF, where we all or I did not scream in one corner, how we will end January 2nd, I do not know how much money and thus enable economic growth and thus register ourselves in the list of those countries that do not celebrate January 2nd. However, they did not say the following things: that the whole of Europe, the whole of Europe by 6 January – at least those who have Christian holidays on their basis – are practically working in half. By 6 January, you are practically unable to book a holiday in Europe for skiing anywhere. And all work processes are disrupted, reduced. And all those who today plead fat that January 2nd is the day when, in fact, the whole of Europe is working bitterly, and that only Slovenia was one of the biggest problems in Europe, because it has not been able to communicate with it, I must say that all of this from the vine is twisted. If that were true, then we'd all come up with clear data and analysis to talk about it. Not one of them has been able to substantiate any of this to date, because this information simply does not exist. At least not as much as we'd like it to be if we wanted to argue that January 2nd is a business day. The other thing that is more important is that, within the collective agreements in that country, where we abolished January 2nd, we have allowed virtually no one to be employed in one sector on 31 January. Where's the disruption in the work process? He's not here. It is simply not available because on 31 January, all energy workers have a day off in the collective agreement. And where is equality here now? While I will be happy and terribly pleased if the social partners, the government and all together agree on such a day for each industry. And you know that's never gonna happen, especially around these days. And that is why it seems to me today a historic opportunity to return the Slovenians and Slovenes back on January 2nd as a day off rather than taking a vacation. However, this can be statistically demonstrated, more than half of all who had previously celebrated work on January 2nd today take a vacation and stay at home and do not come to work. They're not even there. That is why all those advocates who say how good this is for the economy – yes, it is only good that they do not have to pay him a working day because he will take his own leave. But the workflow is standing. Nobody works except for that job that works 365 days each day and, of course, is in cultural habit, customs and also the life need to function. That's why we're going to support this marriage, not just the law. We will also support the proposal of the United Left, which has tabled an amendment to the open article to discuss today. Tell the Slovenes and the Slovenes that you took the 2nd time from them, not just for the first time. The first time it was taken by the SDS, the second will be taken from them by the ruling coalition. Tell them, clearly let them know that you do not appreciate them or their January 2nd, not all that has been said. Let me see you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u73	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the Joint Left Group. Anybody want to talk? Mrs. Ludmila Novak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. On the one hand, I am pleased to conclude this meeting of the National Assembly with a point that connects us – at the proposed new holiday of the day of sovereignty. In Slovenia, I think we are not discussing enough about a single country, all the advantages, how it came about. Above all, it is always a feeling, and research also shows that our young people do not know enough about all of this, so I have also proposed, at the initiative of young people, that they also have the subject of civic and domestic education and ethics in schools. Unfortunately, although this was a youth proposal, there was no greater enthusiasm to support it. On the other hand, to at least include in other content, also how they are composed, what institutions are doing, the history of our country and the promotion of civil and domestic consciousness. If we are talking about this amendment of the United Left, I must say that I personally like home very much, if we have holidays and there are more of these holidays, it is always nice to be home, go visit, come visit and so on. But if I'm socially responsible, then I can't support this amendment. Why? Because I know someone has to pay for this day. It does not matter to Parliament if we are at home this day and take a vacation, even pensioners will have the same pension if this day is a holiday or not. However, if we look at production, every day production is counted in millions. And if we're socially responsible, then with these holidays up and down, we can't just play with the days off. If we have information that between 35 million and 50 million are more income, if this 2nd of January is working day, then we can't say that it's nothing. And employers, entrepreneurs who have to organise production, are precisely aware that this goes to their detriment, to the detriment of businesses. Businesses that pay taxes to me so that the country can function. We're not aware of that. That's why I won't support this amendment. I also wonder what we're celebrating on January 2nd. Just a cat, we can say; it's nice to be home, like I said before, but it's not a holiday. And seduction is Mr Möderndorfer, who says that all Europe is at home. Yeah, people have and benefit from vacations. Let us celebrate January 6th by following the example of Europe. January 6 – Three kings are truly a day off in Europe. In the meantime, people take vacations. If it's a holiday, it means someone has to pay that day, that it's not our vacation as it is. I wish that in this national assembly we were also aware of this and be socially responsible, not self-sufficient. Of course, it is nice to speak here, many will applaud – January 2nd. The new Slovenia will obviously lose votes in those who do not realize that in this society we are all responsible for the functioning of the country, for the economy and for the fact that someone has to pay for our holidays. Long live the sovereign of Slovenia! And this one will live as long as we are all aware of our responsibility to her together.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u75	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Honorable proposer of colleague Marjan Dolinšek. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I must congratulate my colleague Marjan on his courage, for his determination and courage, that, despite his being a coalition Member, he has proposed a law that will gain support today. Ladies and gentlemen, we need such public holidays, but not just state holidays on paper and not just state holidays to fight, when and where there will be no national celebration; we need them, in particular, to entangle them in order to be aware of our rich history, which we must be proud of. Indeed, as a colleague from the Slovenian Democratic Party said, the SDS plus NSI plus SLS plus Desus has shown a lot of patriotism in the 2004-2008 mandate. At that time, we made three public holidays, none of them are free work, but it's not important; it's a state holiday. We had a national holiday on September 15 — the day of the return of Primorska to her homeland. I myself was my colleague Marjan Dolinsk on 15 September 2005, when I was also a coalition Member and I proposed a state holiday on 17 August – a merger of the Premurese Slovenians with the native nation. On my own, I did not use territorial terms on behalf of the law because we live in a Europe that is a family of countries and, above all, a family of nations in Europe where administrative borders fall. I am grateful to my government back then, who supported my proposal. Another holiday, November 23 – Rudolph Maister’s day, was then accepted. It is also right that today’s national holiday will be joined on October 25, the day of sovereignty. Indeed, on October 25, the last occupying soldier of the Yugoslav People's Army left ours, and then the Republic of Slovenia. On Friday we celebrated a quarter of a century since we have the Republic of Slovenia; and not socialist anymore. We have not only deleted the "Socialist" on behalf – unfortunately not all yet in our heads – but we have deleted because we said that we want a different system, we want parliamentary democracy. When I speak, ladies and gentlemen, about the fact that we have to internalise the holidays, we are actually not doing very well here. In these days, what colleague Dolinšek proposed, I searched through the state exam centre, I struggled, and also with the help of my professional colleagues, I sought exam questions from the subject of history. So it's a graduation. It was only on Wednesday, August 28, 2013, that was the autumn exam period, I thought, and after what I found, that for the first time in the independent country of Slovenia there were two or two and a half questions from the chapter of Slovenian independence. 23rd question: Due to the inability to reach any agreement in Yugoslavia, the goal of the independence of Slovenia was set in Demos. How did the people of Slovenia decide to be independent in 1990? If you write a response to a referendum or plebiscite, you get 1 point. Question 24: The Slovenian Assembly declared independence of Slovenia on 25 June 1991. The conquest was followed by war. How long was the war for independent Slovenia, and who was the attacker? The correct answer brings you one point. And what I said was two and a half questions about 6 important events from 1918 to 2004, there is also a question which Slovenia took over in the year. So much, ladies and gentlemen, about our educational system, which, indeed, needs to start at home, in the family. And the key thing is that in our families, we raise our children and grandchildren in this sense, whether it's a day off or not, at State holidays, we put up a flag. This is the first gesture that practically costs nothing. As far as the amendment is concerned, of course I won't support it. It is misleading to say that Europe celebrates from Christmas to January 6th. It would be best to say to the holy three kings. People get vacations then. In one day, and in one effective day, we in Slovenia make about €170 million of gross social product. She needs it. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u77	Thank you. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u78	Thank you. What has the United Left Group tried to achieve with this amendment? Some very simple thing. This is to return something that has been used for a long time in Slovenia, and something that the missed ZUJF actually terminated. And under some rhetoric or pretext to improve the economic situation in Slovenia, it has actually led to an even greater catastrophe and other recession in Slovenia. The main economic statement that it should be reinstated as part of a day off on 2 January is this calculation by the Statistical Office, which says that each working day will bring more than 0.1% of GDP. If you are going to read more precisely the document in which the SURS states this, you have to read the note to this statement, which says, quote: "Our estimate is that on average every additional working day increases GDP growth by 0.1 percentage points on average. This applies on the assumption that all the other conditions governing GDP growth are the same in both years, but the difference in growth depends mainly on a number of other factors relating to the overall state of the economy." Those who know at least about how statistics work, of course, realize that it is very difficult to calculate how much an additional working day brings, and in general in such a short period of time as between 2012 and 2015, and that, in fact, economic growth or GDP growth is strongly linked to a whole range of factors that are significantly more important or have a greater impact than just part-time work. The second information, which is very appropriate in opposing the re-establishment on 2 January as part of the day off, is linked to productivity, so that the economy loses every day if it works free day and so on. We live in a modern, modern society where the work process is linked to the organisation of this work. We have a high degree of automation, we have other factors and other ways of influencing how much is spent on a given day and how much is created on a given day. This can in fact be easily solved through the organisation of work that today's technology and progress allows. One of these is the planning of the work process and I think that this planning could also be taken into account on 2 January. I don't think that would make any major losses. The third argument that we have heard and likely will be repeated is the savings in the public sector brought by such a measure. It is clear from a simple calculation that people are in public administration, which also works on 2. January and this, of course, brings certain costs. However, it is also a great savings if work were free on January 2nd and people working on January 2nd. January, the rest of you are home. If they draw the line at the end, we could find out somewhere that if January 2nd is not working a day off, in fact, we are in some way on the worse side. The additional argument is comparability with other European countries. Slovenia, we hear often, Slovenia is a small country and comparable to other small countries we have disproportionately too many holidays. Of course it doesn't. Slovenia has 12 days off, Austria has 13, Portugal has 13 days off, and so on. If we are going to add up legally defined days of paid leave and paid days, we see that Slovenia is also very comparable, Austria has 22 work days off, just like Slovenia, 13 days paid leave, Slovenia has 12, if you add up, Austria at 35, Slovenia at 34. It is said that not to deceive people that Slovenia is now a lazy little country on the tail of the European scale, but in this our work, as colleagues in NSa like to point out, is actually very comparable to Austria. Further information, which should be much more eloquent when compared with modern and advanced Western European countries, is how much we work in Slovenia in one week. Slovenia is somewhere, and here it is on the tail of the scale, with 39.6 hours at the bottom of this scale, while these countries to which we like to compare, Germany, the Netherlands, Denmark, Norway and so on move somewhere between 30 and 35 working hours a week. The fact is, it doesn't matter how many hours a week the workers do, but how many hours they can make out of these hours. And that's the question that matters. It is said that not that workers will now work more for less pay, but that they will also be able to do the same with less hours. And that allows exactly technology in today's world. I think that these foundations, which are mainly based on this economic or more economic logic, are similar to those of, for example, the Economic Chamber of Slovenia, on some torn soils. And it would be good for us to do what we have already heard in the National Assembly today, saying, not again, to take it away from people on January 2nd, but to finally return it today, and thereby eliminate at least one part of that ZUJF, which, under the pretext of getting better and better when we start saving, will be accepted a few years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u79	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Vojka Shergan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. Respectable colleagues and colleagues. However, in the case of 2 January, I might debate in the way the real sector thinks. I do not think it is time to increase the number of holidays, so January should not become a day off again, especially because we still have lunch included in our working hours. This is not comparable to Austria and neighbouring countries, with those having one day more. See, we cannot expand our days off and they must remain at least to this extent, as at this point in time, unless the Labour Relations Act is opened, where we should exempt lunch from working time. I also believe that effective working time in Slovenia is still insufficient, effective work. And that's missing. Therefore, it is not permissible to reintroduce on 2 January as a day off. I think it is right that then, even in the real sector, people give leave or use hours that are good. From this point of view, I don't think that's right, and I'm not going to support that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u81	Thank you. Mr. Miha Kordish has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u82	President, thank you very much for your word. Today we are talking about January 2nd as a day off. But let me start my discussion for an illustration with another holiday, yesterday's women's day or working wife's day, how March 8th became a holiday. It became a holiday so that the workers in Petrograd slipped onto the streets and demanded rights for themselves. They demanded food, demanded an end to the empire, demanded an end to the war. And later, after the victory of the revolution, this day became a holiday, a little later, in the second half of the 20th century, as well as a day off. What do I mean by that? I would like to say that the rights, in particular the rights of work, of social rights are allied and are in no way granted. How, exactly, is there a social dynamic that regulates these rights, which depends on the social relationship of forces. The key social divide prevents the gap between work and capital. And, look, in the United Left we were sent to the National Labour Council. To challenge all the dominant capital forces that embrace our policy to challenge their dominance across all political structures. And we've been trying to do this for the last six months since we've been here, we've been trying to do this with our amendment to return on January 2nd as a day off. And we call upon you, all present, all the Members of Parliament, to join us in this. There was a lot of talk about responsibility, about the economy, about gross social product and how to work. I'd be wondering who's really irresponsible here. Are really irresponsible people, employees, workers, excuses, not least, who work Friday and the saint who are used in the workplace, capital from them draws the excess value, turns it into a profit that flows to us in Slovenia as in the peripheral country, not to development, not to any progress, not to any general social drive, but to the pockets of the sand? Are these people irresponsible? And when the fruits of their labor have been so robbed, the workers come home — what awaits them? Often the rent, some rent, this time the rent is on the way. And if they want anything at all. For example, your car, your apartment — what do they do? Unfortunately, their wages aren't enough, they have to go to the bank, and that's where they get squandered by financial capital. And please, who's irresponsible here!? How do you hope to tell these people that they are irresponsible, that it is socially irresponsible, that they deserve at least another day off a year when they can go somewhere with their families, when they can only do what they want when they are not caught in some exploitation relationship. One day a year more. But she's got 365 days all year. Please! And in this situation, you're grinning about some responsibility. You really need to ask yourself who's irresponsible here. However, in the United Left, we can immediately answer that the employees and those who claim 2 January as part of the day off are definitely not in this circle of irresponsible ones. Not least, it creates everything in this society, but the worker, the employee, is denied the fruits of his own work. As here today, a number of political groups have denied them the right to work as part of a day off until 2 January. And let us try to continue to answer the question, but who really is irresponsible here. They're not employees, they're not workers. Then they're still exploitative here. Those, for example, who drive their terrible profits, which they create on the back of employees, into tax havens, but these people are not irresponsible. Aren't these people more substantial, more fundamentally irresponsible than those who create value and want a day off on January 2nd? Even in economic terms – is it a responsibility to create millions, to create billions and export them to tax havens? You don't update the production process with them, you don't open new jobs. No, no, no. You put them in your own pockets, preferably beyond any tax contributions to the budget, for the common good of all citizens and citizens – deletes, three transactions, tax havens, private accounts full. If we want to talk about responsibility, if we want to talk about the contribution to the economy, to our gross social product, to our development, let us talk about these things. It is not about how employees who already have bad salaries, poor working conditions, take advantage of the system or are socially irresponsible because they want a day off on January 2. It is irresponsible to tell these people that they are irresponsible not to contribute to the family and so on — this is the serious irresponsibility — while at the same time going over all the huge capital gains accumulated in the pockets of the privileged handful. And the tax havens and so on. And if we move on. Who today preaches social irresponsibility because on January 2nd these ugly, ugly workers do not want to contribute to society? The same people who advocate last privatisation, which is a guarantee that we stop some development, that we stop some perspective on social productivity that can serve the whole society, all citizens and citizens, not just a handful. Look, it's a hypocrisy. It's such an eclectic school case of hypocrisy. On one side today, you preach to us or preach to all our fellow citizens and fellow citizens that it is necessary to work, but it is necessary to give up your visit. At the same time, you advocate politics. But if you don't defend them, at least you tolerate them, but they allow you to enrich a handful on the shoulders of these employees, who are supposed to be working so hard. Let it be a non-action against the huge profits that flow into tax havens, or some privatisation, not to say a sale when a single fruit of the common part of the generations and generations of workers is wanted to be eaten by a locust, so that these companies, sometimes social enterprises, can confiscate, recover as soon as possible, cancel their developmental departments and, lastly, turn Slovenia into a periphery to throw half the employees on the road. Yeah, that's what we're facing. On the one hand, we have to work, let us work, let us seize this ideology of necessity of work for 99% of our citizens and citizens of our fellow citizens, our fellow citizens, while at the same time signing a blank check to exploiters, those who would like to collect our social property, formerly social property for small money, those who drive the value created by our employees in this country, Slovenian citizens, Slovenian citizens, into tax havens. And at least what we can do today in this National Assembly is, if you want to, if you already have to insist on privatisation policies, in policies that allow unlimited financial gunrying and the export of profits from the country to private pockets, but at least what we can do, do, but all together, it is that we return January 2nd as work day to those who create this value that creates all the value in this country. At least that one day, one single day to work free so that at least a minimum of people can breathe so that they can enjoy at least one day of the fruits of their labor. These fruits have been hard earned, and this is denied to them at every turn. At least on 2 January, they may not need to be denied their rights and their work created. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u83	Thank you. Mrs. Janja Sluga has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. Comrade Dolinšek proposed a holiday, which can mean a great deal to us as a nation, that we have a relationship to this date, to the departure of an army which has been difficult to expect, from our territory, and therefore the Group of Members fully welcomes and will, of course, support its proposal. With regard to these historical facts, we demonstrate our maturity, our consciousness. With regard to the work that we must have as a nation, and in the light of this relationship, we unfortunately cannot support the United Left SMC Group's reintroduction on 2 January as part of a day off. Why? The SURS calculated that the financial impact of the abolition of the paid holiday is within the framework of 35 million. Of course, the SURS also stated that this figure is valid on the assumption that all other conditions governing GDP growth are the same. So it can vary upwards or downwards. In no case, however, does it disappear on the basis of these other conditions. The public sector assessment of these savings is some EUR 360 000. We would all like more work on our days off, including the Members here, including the people who are creating this GDP. However, I would agree here with my colleagues from New Slovenia, especially my colleague Novakova said very well, it is necessary to be socially responsible, first of all to put the country on the right track, and the economy must be focused on the right path. First, these indicators, which I agree with, show up and show good, but they must become stable, they must show up in the long run and only when this is achieved, but I think we will all agree here that we will give these employees not only one extra day off, but higher wages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u85	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mrs. Violeta Tomic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. A brief analysis of the holidays in Slovenia shows that the events related to the secession of the Republic of Slovenia already mark two holidays, which are also part of the day off: the day of independence, 26. December, and State Day, June 25th. Then two more festivals are dedicated to the writers, Prešeren and Trubar Day. Then the two festivals are dedicated to events after the end of World War I, the association of Prekmurje and Maistrov Day, and the two holidays are dedicated to events during and after World War II, the day of rebellion and the accession of Primorska. There's still a holiday of work, a new year and a day of the dead. The rest are days off, but they're not state holidays. Most of them are Christian holidays, big night, Easter Monday, etc. If a holiday is taken away or added, the weight of other holidays is reduced. The events of secession have already been devoted to two holidays, which are also part of the day. In our view, that is entirely sufficient. If we add a third holiday, we are, of course, reducing the importance of other events, such as the anti-fascist struggle that lasted four years and demanded a huge sacrifice. The day of liberation on May 9th, for example, is not a state holiday. Think about it. Of course, we could still list, but our main message is that there are enough holidays at the time of the secession and that is why there is no need to add new ones. We are aware of the difficult, aware of the respect for our sovereignty, but there is no need here. Of course, people and civil society can mark other holidays. We don't deny them that right. In the United Left, we agree with the proposaler that the historical memory of the most important events should be maintained. We would expect this historical memory to include different views, respected colleagues and colleagues. We estimate that we have not yet reached this stage in connection with the events of the break-up of Yugoslavia in Slovenia. So let me just give you two examples. Mr Dolinšek wrote in his explanation of the proposal: "The day of sovereignty on the day of independence and unity would draw attention to respect for human rights and freedoms and for humanity, which is the goal of real sovereignty in the realization of our constitutional democracy. The day of sovereignty, respected colleagues and colleagues, will be very difficult to draw attention to respect for human rights if the state that celebrates it is not yet able to fully regulate the situation of the deleted population after 23 years. In 1991, our constitutional democracy fell under the test of respect for human rights, which it violated with its former fellow citizen. She failed the constitutional democracy exam because she violated her own constitution. 24 years remains the unresolved problem of the savers of the former Ljubljana Bank from Croatia and Bosnia. This, also, has been a violation of human rights. Citizens from other republics still lack any minority rights, have no radio channels in their own language, and are still victims of the hate speech of leading politicians who are being compared with coaches and punks. Second case. A colleague from Desus said at a meeting of the home committee: "But I agree with the proposed October 25th that this is a day of sovereignty to mark the last departure of the enemy from our country." Your Honor! On 26 June 1991, approximately two thousand JLA members went to the external borders of the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of a decision of the Federal Executive Council of 25 June 1991. Among them were many Slovenians, and more were young recruits. However, I do not believe that there were many enemies of Slovenia among them. The following day, on 26 June, the first shots were fired against the Pagans. There was a shooting of the Territorial Defense. The number of JLA members involved has increased and the conflicts have increased. They lasted until the signing of the Briony Agreement. During this time 4 thousand 945 members of JLA and federal militia were put down, which, of course, is proof that they did not hate the Slovenian population. On 18 July, the Federal Presidency decided to relocate units from Slovenia. This determination was carried out without further hostility until 25 October. If we walk to the Pink Valley, from the National Assembly over Tivoli, there's a monument by the railway to pilot Tony Merlak. Merlak's gazelle was shot down in suspicious circumstances by the Territorial Defense. That's what books are about, Your Honor. There is only one name on that monument, even though the mechanic, Senior Sergeant Bojanča Sibinovski, fell at that time. Macedonian Sibinovski was no enemy of Slovenia, just as most Yugoslav citizens and members of JLA were not. When his name is also on that monument, when the Republic of Slovenia is able to recognise human rights violations, when it stops selling Slovenia and robbing citizens, then, respectable, it will also be time for the day of sovereignty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u87	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? First, I give my word to the proposaler, Mr Dolinsk, and then forward.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Not every nation is given to live in their homeland, independent and sovereign. That for centuries this has succeeded us, the Slovenian people, is no coincidence. Throughout its long history, the Slovenian people have proved themselves worthy of their country on their home land. That the path would not be easy, and it was not easy, all events in the process of self - conquest testify eloquently. Unfortunately, it was also necessary to cut through the weapons. This was not what we wanted, but if the war had already been imposed on us, we accepted it and responded energetically. We were ready to defend and defend our new country of the Republic of Slovenia and give our lives for it. Defending the country is a matter of belonging, courage and determination. Those who do not have it may not have been able to do so. The Slovenian nation defended and successfully defended its homeland. The self-sustainment processes, which began in 1988, were secured. That we can live today peacefully and freely create and speak in Slovenian, our native mother tongue, this possibility is unfortunately not for every nation today. We got it. If we're not proud of this, then I don't know, but I do understand some of the concerns they have, but I wouldn't discuss it. [[…]] To conclude one thought from Winston Churchill: Those who look clear into the past can also see their future far away. To the conclusion. Perhaps the war of independence, direct, ten days, as some call it, was really too short. He's been behind us for 24 years, and apparently some forgot what it was like back then. I'm sorry some people feel that way today. I can say for myself that I was very proud to have been able to join, that I was an actor in the self-sustaining war, that I defended our country with a weapon in my hand against the direct attacks of the enemy Yugoslav army, which was just born. And I will always be proud, and I think it's not just me, it's a lot of us. But those who have or have any problems, that's their business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u89	Thank you. Mr Jani Möderndorfer also spoke. [[He's quitting.]] Anybody else want to discuss this? I don't see any more desire. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the 5th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 1 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u90	We continue the 18th item of the agenda, this is the second consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Act on Medicinal Products under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Medicinal Products Act is not suitable for further consideration. Mr Tomaž Gantar has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As we said earlier this morning in our opinion, we had great concerns and reservations about this vote. There are some facts, however, which have also been highlighted in the debate of the Health Committee. In view of the stage of the procedure in which we are in which amendments virtually cannot modify or correct these shortcomings, we will support the proposal in Desus, as proposed by the Health Committee. We will therefore vote in favour of the proposed position.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u92	We vote on the conclusion that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Medicinal Products Act is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 60 votes against 4. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the decision has been taken by the National Assembly and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 6th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending the Consumer Protection Act by a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue the 7th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Act on the Business Register of Slovenia after a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 70 votes against 2. [[The vote was 70.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Holidays and Works of Days in the Republic of Slovenia following a reduced procedure. We shall proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which we shall carry out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 2. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the United Left Group to Article 1. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors is given by Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u93	In the Group of Members, the United Left will vote in favour of an amendment for one simple reason. Today we have heard many times that effective work in Slovenia is not enough. Why is it too small? Because effective work depends primarily on the satisfaction and rest of workers. And how can these workers be satisfied, rested if their work rights are taken at every turn. One of these rights is certainly also the right to free work on 2 January. Research on the business activities carried out by the European Commission clearly shows what an obstacle is, and these are not part of the days off, but a lack of demand and deplorable access to credit. That is, if we want the economy to be more efficient and to operate better, let us give the workers this January 2nd and give the economy the credit they need. Instead of privatising Slovenian banks, let us encourage Slovenian banks to create a better environment for economic services. The government has done nothing in this step, and I think at least the government coalition can show at least a little obedience to the labour rights and to the situation of those who are at the edge of our society.Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u94	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Alliance's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The debate showed that, in fact, neither the government nor the bitter opponents were in fact able to prove systemic, neither analytical, nor any data to demonstrate the eligibility of the deletion on 2 January. They didn't really show it anywhere. And that's why it's our chance to correct the mistake. I don't see anything wrong if someone makes a mistake if we find that mistake and fix it. As long as we keep our eyes closed and speak in spirit, we do not know how much we have saved, and that this is a good decision that helps to improve economic incentives, it is a simple diversion and a fabrication of Cuba to justify our own ignorance and past wrong decisions. In particular, I warn you here, not those who have made this mistake, but those who have the chance to correct it. Because somehow I still understand that they won't admit it. But that the coalition that has these levers today doesn't understand it, and then we do live in a completely deranged world. Me and our Group of Members will support this amendment. What you wanted to hear, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u96	We vote on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 1. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 53. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Explain to the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats have a mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u97	Dear colleagues and colleagues! In New Slovenia, of course, we are in favour of celebrating as much as possible the departure of the last soldier of the Yugoslav army, which was a glorious event for Slovenia. Nevertheless, I would point out one detail to which I was reminded by former Member Anton Tomažič, namely that that first Parliament adopted a declaration of sovereignty on 2 July 1990 and that it seemed to him that the name of the day of sovereignty was somewhat inappropriate, because in some ways we are forgetting that first declaration of sovereignty, which was adopted in June 1990. He suggested that it might be better to consider if he did not name that day something different. I believe that this opportunity is still in the next step, but today we will vote in favour of this holiday.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u98	I think we can vote on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Holidays and Work of Days in the Republic of Slovenia in its entirety. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 70 votes against 4. [[The vote was 70.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interruption of the 2nd item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Construction of Objects by an urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, the amendments at the assembly could not be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 3. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 13th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office following a reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 4. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 7. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 44. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 8 of the SDS Group. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present. The vote was 22 to 44. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As the proposed amendment has not been adopted for second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 20. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Free Legal Assistance following a short procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendments tabled, which we will make on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled of 4. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 23. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 43. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. They shall proceed to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 31. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 44. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 8. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the cut-off of item 15 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law amending the Law on e-commerce on the market following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, the amendments at the assembly could not be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreigners Act after a reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 4. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 1. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment of the same proposer to Article 2 shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 53. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 1 has not been adopted, it has become an amendment to Article 2 of the same motion. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the short proposal. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 69 votes against 5. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 27th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on Amendments and Supplements to the Decree on the Conversion of the University of Maribor. As the amendments to the amended motion for a decision have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a resolution. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home working body, the motion for a decision would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 28th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending and supplementing the Decision establishing the University of Primorsk. As the amendments to the amended motion for a decision have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a resolution. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home working body, the motion for a decision would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 29th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a decree amending and supplementing the Decision establishing a separate higher education institution of the Faculty of Information Studies in the New Town. As the amendments to the amended motion for a decision have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a resolution. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home working body have made the decision inconsistent. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 70 votes against 2. [[The vote was 70.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 19th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Penal Code is appropriate for further consideration. Mr Jan Mahnic has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u99	Thank you for your word, President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the amendment of the Penal Code because we believe that it is an effective fight against terrorism. We propose that the word "worrisome" should be deleted because we believe that it is difficult to define how we seriously violate the constitutional foundations of our country, other countries or international organisations. We will also support this proposal because we sanction those who intend to participate in armed conflicts abroad and, of course, sanction those who have already participated and come back. In the first part, we believe that this must be supported because it is prevention. We will also support this proposal because it also sanctions those who do not now, following a new one that encourages the planning of such activities. Even though there were concerns that it might already be possible, I might say, a thought-delicacy if someone just thought or said that he was going to go. Of course it's not that. This is precisely why we have proposed because we have witnessed that Slovenian citizens have also gone to the battlefields, especially to Syria and Iraq, because we are witnessing that the others also cross the Slovenian territory, under the Penal Code, according to a new proposal we are proposing, they could be stopped. This, dear colleagues, is the intention to stop someone at the airport, for example, when we have the evidence, not when it comes to the issue. We are confident that this will further strengthen our fight against terrorism. Even though we are considered a safe country, security is not to be taken for granted. Finally, in Slovenia we will also have to discuss what things we will propose in other areas in terms of the withdrawal of travel documents, the amendment of the Criminal Procedure Act, which the government is already proposing, yet we have proposed this precisely because the government does not intend to interfere with the Penal Code. We believe that such a policy is wrong, because if we pursue this goal of doing nothing in the defence and security areas, we will soon have only that left, as I have already said, that we will put tables on the border of the Republic of Slovenia and write on them as the butlers have done.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u100	The explanation for the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u101	The Council agrees, becoming increasingly dangerous, increasingly unpredictable. One of the reasons is for sure that terrorism and its forms are increasingly adapted to the current circumstances in the world. If terrorists and terrorist organisations were considered to have carried out bold logistically demanding operations years ago, they are now increasingly using low-cost guerrilla actions that intimidate many citizens. One such action recently took place in France. It is the duty of the State to take care of at least what is in its power to protect its own citizens. We in Novi Slovenija especially see three things that the country should do to better protect its own citizens. One is to improve the legal framework for combating terrorism. And right here we are most called and most responsible, we parliamentarians, to provide a good legal framework for combating terrorism. Secondly, the operation of intelligence services needs to be improved. That's the government's job. Good information can prevent many attacks and thus preserve many lives. Many indications show that our intelligence services are not doing their best to do better, which is why it is the task of the government to change them. However, the third thing is the task of all of us, and this is the task of both parliamentarians and governments, that we are primarily trying to address the causes of terrorism through our active foreign policy. But today we have this first item on the agenda, improving the legal framework. That is why we will, of course, support this proposal in New Slovenia. Slovenia is one of the few countries that has not yet experienced various forms of terrorism, thank God. And that is probably why Members are less sensitive or less receptive to taking measures to combat terrorism. But I really wish the day didn't come when we'd all be together wondering if we could do more. Today we have a chance to do more, and this is a very big opportunity. So far, our intelligence services have prevented at least two major terrorist attacks. One is an attack on the Prime Minister, the other is an attack on parliament by a tank of fuel. Something else can happen. That is why it is essential for us to adopt a legal basis that would enable us to fight as effectively as possible against those terrorists who will come from fighting in Syria and Iraq in the coming months and days. We will support this proposal. However, as the debate will continue and since it is the first hearing, nothing will be lost, dear coalition, if you support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u102	The explanation of vote on behalf of the modern centre Party Group shall be mag. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u103	Thank you for your word, chairman. In view of the declared holy war and its dimension, in fact, no space in this world is likely to be completely safe and probably Slovenia is not excluded in all of this. However, it seems important to us that our security and intelligence authorities are doing well to adapt their activities with a number of operational, strategic measures, which they have also provided us at the meeting of the home labour force. Among other things, they provide us with security through measures to amend legislation, but they stress that it is difficult to prove these crimes or crimes in general. With regard to criminal incrimination, we find that all the current forms that are being implemented are already covered by existing legislation. At the same time, Europe and its Security Council are preparing, in May, to draw up a protocol in which they will uniformly regulate the legal framework if they find that this is necessary, and these actions will be uniformly criminalised at European Union level, as this will also make it easier to prove themselves uniformly. The proposed law expresses security concerns in our country, but unfortunately it is prepared to be very difficult to correct or harmonise in the second reading or second reading, so Members of the SMC Group will not be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u104	Mr Matjaž Germany has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u105	Thank you for your word. At least since 2001, if not before terrorism has become a global problem and, in some way, a coalition against terrorism has been formed, we are always talking about where the border between freedom, human rights and national security is. As we have already had in the debate, not only in the National Assembly, but also in the Committees, we have been assured that the Government is monitoring all developments in this area, that the Penal Code basically satisfies all needs, including in the debate on what has been said. We note that the European Union is preparing or activating certain instruments, as my predecessor said. It is said that the Council of Europe is preparing multilateral criminal measures. However, I believe or believe that, due to preventive purposes, we should think mainly in order to strengthen our activities and the related financial resources in the area of the functioning of security and intelligence services and the police, not the amendment of the Penal Code. My personal opinion is that in the near future Slovenia will have to focus more on addressing the problems of incoming refugees, not so much on terrorism. We will not support this proposal because we believe that it is regulated within the European Union and within the framework of initiatives by the Government to the extent that it can provide us with security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u106	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Alliance's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u107	Thank you very much, President. There are some things we really don't understand. What are we so afraid of? They proposed the law and corrected those articles that would facilitate certain things or actions in Slovenia. In the debate, we have not heard a single observation that anything would have harmed the Republic of Slovenia if such a bill had been adopted. We have not heard a single statement from the government, nor from the Legal and Legal Service, nor from any expert. No, we're afraid of that. The only reason we automatically reject it is because it came from that side. And this is wrong, fellow Members of Parliament and Members, who are defending and shouting that this is all arranged. More. We have heard that the European Union will arrange this for us. This one was the best and sweetest. The European Union will not settle anything for us. Nothing. In fact, she's going to complicate something more so that we can have a sweeter life. We will support this bill and – the blue center, act wisely! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u108	Apparently, we'll have a round of explanations on our own behalf. But before that, the explanation for the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors is the Joint Left of Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u109	What does this amendment law mean? Actually, it's sand in the eyes. We have heard this a number of times, and we have also said this here in the National Assembly, that in fact all the things he is trying to regulate these novels are already present in the current Penal Code. This is the first very dry and technical reason why we will not support such a proposal. Then there are two other reasons. The first is that the causes need to be addressed, not by repression, but by the consequences. One of these aspects is Slovenian foreign policy, which is completely flawed. In fact, by supporting the looting activities of NATO and other military institutions, it is also fueling and attacking countries in the Middle East and, of course, causing such reactions in its own way. Secondly, a more important issue is the social inclusion of these people. It is precisely these modern, advanced Western European countries to which investors are referring that those most affected by terrorism, Spain, France, Britain, start to see after a decade that the repression against terrorism actually brings nothing. They are beginning to see that other ways are needed to solve this problem. And these other ways are mainly social inclusion. People who leave France or elsewhere to fight or merely carry out terrorist acts in their territory are actually doing this because they can no longer identify themselves with anything because they live in a society that is completely exclusive and, in fact, those people are pushing on the margin from which they can only be resolved in such a way as to find a different identification option. And unfortunately, these extreme groups, which have no common denominator with faith, and not with Islam at all. I do not want to start similar measures in Slovenia, i.e. with repression to encourage those who fail to join society in order to resolve these things in a different way. Perhaps those primary schoolchildren who are beaten because of their ethnic background would have different mechanisms through which they could engage in society rather than try online to attract them than those who are the weakest in such extreme groups. For these reasons, even more, we will not support the Joint Left of this proposal in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u110	Please apply for explanations of vote on your own behalf. Explanation of the vote in his own name, Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u111	Thank you, Mr. President. At the time of the introduction and study of this law proposed by colleagues and colleagues of the Slovenian Democratic Party, I have decided to support it because I want to open a parliamentary debate to improve our criminal code and ensure greater security in Slovenia. When I was in Riga for the last three days in the last week, together with three other Members, at an interparliamentary conference on the common foreign and security policy, on a common security and defence policy, where the word went solely on security, I must say that we actually talked less about the crisis in Ukraine, we talked more about terrorist attacks, about the hybrid war and so on. Look, technology, unfortunately, terrorists also abuse. In a way, technology is speeding to the left and to the right of our regulation, and that is crucial. Let us not forget the 2078 Security Council resolution, which in some ways also requires national parliaments to review and possibly adapt legislation. I think we need to adapt this legislation. If there are more of us, there is a quality, the solution can certainly be provided. And look, colleagues and colleagues, for free is the 315-billion-billion-dollar Junker package if there is no security if there is no peace in our Europe. Free! Therefore, it is essential that we take preventive action. It'll be free after something happens, well, God forbid it would, but it'll be free to cry and write "suis Slovene", "suis Catholic". We must now act, so my vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u112	Mr Igor Zorčič has an explanation of vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u113	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear colleagues! I will vote against this law. I have read the law or proposal of the law very well and it stipulates that the word "worrisome" should be deleted. We have two words "worrisome" in the first paragraph, and if we delete them, it has very serious consequences. The first consequence is that it gets a whole new content of this article. This means that someone in order to intimidate the population is threatening to break the supply of drinking water, for example. So if a villager threatens to shut down his neighbors, it is terrorism under this amended article if we vote. And I don't think that's the point of this debate to extend to some very unusual things. This has nothing to do with the fight against terrorism and the like. In short, we're going to bring in a lot of uncertainty, expand the crime field, which is why we just can't support it. At the same time, I would also like to say that, if we say now that this has not been criminalised, I do not know what will happen to those cases that may have been on such battlefields, they have returned. Or we'll say that so far everything has been fine, and from now on it's gone. I think that what has been done so far is also not right and that there must be such people in criminal proceedings. They are said to be accused in accordance with Article 108 of the Penal Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u114	Mr Jan Mahnic has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u115	Thank you, Chairman. I will support this proposal. I will support it because I simply cannot agree that Slovenia is waiting for May or June when the Council of Europe says that you will now accept this and that and that. More. I will then be disappointed if the Council of Europe does not propose to all the countries of the European Union, but now you must adopt the anti-terrorist legislation Slovenia has in its penal code to adopt the whole of Europe from our 108th to 111th Articles. I'll be disappointed if it doesn't. I will support this proposal precisely because we are deleting the word "worrisome" because I did not get any explanation through the debate, what is the difference between "hazard foundations" or "hazardous foundations". You know, for someone, it can be a serious threat to the foundations by taking away the mandate of Mr. Janez Janša in an unconstitutional way. And not least, I'll support it because it's not true that we don't have cases like this. We have people in Slovenia who have fought on the battlefields of the Islamic State who have come back even with rocket launchers, but nothing happens to them because we do not have these acts incriminated. According to the new proposal, as preventive as I have already said, it is the intentional participation and punishment of those who fought there. I will also support this because the matter is clear enough and it is not about you breaking the water supply to the neighbor, because everyone knows that terrorism is an act that has clear political and economic consequences, and providing water to the neighbour is not a deficit. I will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u116	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mr Matjaž Germany.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u117	Denying the fact that the security situation around us is not changing or exacerbating is not possible. I mean, the facts are such that it's good to talk about them. I also welcomed this initiative in the debate to talk about it. The fact is that Slovenia is in a situation that is not equal to the larger or neighbouring countries. We have our specifics, we have our good relations both in the east and in the Middle East. I speak mainly in this case to the Muslim communities. I think we have two ways here. One is sharpening or strengthening intercultural dialogue. I would like Slovenia to decide on the latter. We have a unique opportunity here, and we cannot compare ourselves here with others, that by strengthening the culture of dialogue we can somehow put ourselves on top of these problems. I would like this not to sound utopian, but in fact Slovenia is not at the forefront of those countries that would be in the greatest danger. But that doesn't mean we can close our eyes. Otherwise, I think we're doing things that aren't the most important thing in this case. And, as has already been said, I hope that in the near future there will be more resources for the functioning of our security and intelligence services and the police to act in this regard in a preventive direction. Once again, however, I will point out that there will be a greater danger or more of us will have to deal in the near future with refugees than with security issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u118	I guess there's gonna be another round of explanation for the vote, so I'm asking you to apply. Mr Jernej Vrtovec has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u119	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Republic of Slovenia is in a geographical position where those fighters returning from Syria from Iraq cross the borders of our country. Those who go back to Austria, Germany, cross the borders of our country. And we do not have the accompanying legislation to sanction those citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who are fighting in Syria and are in any way related to all Europeans returning from Syria. As we have already heard through the debate or through explanations of vote today, Slovenian citizens who have returned from the Middle East battlefields have not been sanctioned. And we got them by chance. They were hit by mortars and other weapons. They got them by accident. And we're just not looking. I would like to stress that it will be too late to ring the tide and that security is one of the key values for the well-being of the people, for the well-being of the European Union. I would also like to highlight how it is in neighbouring countries or other countries of the European Union, such as France and the United Kingdom. As long as there is controversy or sympathy over social networks with certain organisations, it is sufficient for them to take away their passports, these security authorities restrict travel beyond national borders. Let us ask ourselves what we can do to make citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia feel safe and move smoothly within our borders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u120	You will, of course, vote in favour. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has an explanation of vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u121	Thank you very much. I will vote in favour because it is easy for the State or Government, by adopting the budget or the balance, to know clearly how much it devotes to this police and how much it intends to devote to it. Nothing. Poor safety. The opposition comes with a proposal to amend the law, where we can make things easier. No, no, no. That's what we're up against. Today, we talk about the fact that in our country we do not know what vandalism is, what is complacency and obstinacy and what terrorism is when we interrupt someone's plumbing, but I find it a little bit unserious to discuss in this national assembly. The fact is that water is one of the ingredients where someone who terrorizes the country can let in arsenic or atrazine is finished. However, I hope that we can distinguish what this means if a neighbour does it, and what it means if someone who actually threatens the security of the Republic of Slovenia does it. But that's not what this law solves. And you know that, fellow Member! This saves something else. That is why this law needs to be supported. I'm sorry to bother you with your last sentence, but I'm going to support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-09-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u122	I think we're done with the explanations of the voice or what seemed to be the explanation of the voice. We can vote on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, i.e. on the conclusion that the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code is appropriate for further consideration. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 49. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 49.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in European Union Matters. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government on matters of the European Union is suitable for further consideration. I inform you that a decision will be taken if at least two thirds of the Members present vote for it in accordance with paragraph 3a of Article 3a of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on European Union Affairs as a working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 31st item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the inefficiency of the use of European means of protection against floods. We shall proceed with the decision on the amendment tabled, which shall be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendment tabled. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 42. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done voting on the amendment. We are moving on to a full decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 38. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Explosives and pyrotechnic articles in the framework of the regular procedure. On Tuesday 3 March 2015, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, as a proposal for a bill, decided that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, at that meeting, it would hold a third consideration of the draft law. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the second-reading meeting of the home working body or the National Assembly would make the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the fifth session of the National Assembly. I inform you that in 15 minutes there will be a meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly in the Grand Chamber in Tomšičeva.
