ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the ninth meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Tanja Zink, Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik, Mr Marjan Dolinšek and Mr Roberto Battelli. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor, and the President of the Council to the 23rd item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 9th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Monday, 8 June 2015, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda of the meeting. The Group of the United Left proposes to the National Assembly that agenda of the 9th meeting of the National Assembly withdraw the 11th item, which is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Trade Act, the second consideration. You have received a motion for withdrawal and is published on the e-club. Would you like a representative of the motions to withdraw? The word is Luke the Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In the United Left, we propose that, pursuant to Article 64, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, a proposal for a law on trade amendments and supplements should be withdrawn from the agenda of the 9th Regular Session. Let me briefly explain this request. Additional deregulation for the trade of typical jobs is harmful for employees, consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises. The call by the seller and the manager is already deregulation, as only a minimum level of education is prescribed for them, but there is no specific education course, which ensures the quality of trade services and at least a certain level of safety for employees. The consideration of the proposal for an additional deregulation of the trade profession in the home labour force in the National Assembly showed a broad opposition to this deregulation, as it was opposed by all – trade unions, small and medium-sized traders, trade chambers, the State Council; and the Ministry of Education also opposed it in its treatment in the Economic and Social Council. Apparently, the government itself is not coordinated in this matter. Moreover, according to Minister of Economy Zdravka, we can conclude that the Minister himself is not sufficiently aware of the content of this law. On the parental committee, he argued that when we talk about the fourth and fifth stages of education, which still remains, talking about a complete non-educational approach in this area is, I don't know, inappropriate. That's a quote. On this Committee, Minister Restorationšek expressed the view that the fourth and fifth levels of education required remain in line with this proposal, but this is precisely the essence of the proposal to exempt these criteria from the required trade professions. In addition, labour market deregulation leads to a worse situation for employees, putting them in a tight competitive position, which means that they will be forced to work harder for less pay and agree to smaller social rights. Therefore, in the United Left, we propose the withdrawal of the matter from the agenda, as the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Trade Act is not well thought out, it is inconsistent with the social partners, and apparently the City Government itself is not in line, and the cities do not know exactly what it says in this law, which was prepared at the initiative of the Chamber of Commerce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u3	Would you like a word from the government? Minister Zdravko Rest, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u4	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! I propose that the proposal for a law amending the Trade Act remain on the agenda of the meeting of the National Assembly. The key objective of the new Trade Act is to deregulation of professions by seller and commercial manager. Justification – an educational condition is one of the conditions for managing trade, the result of deregulation will be simplification of the business environment, increased employment and self-employment opportunities and a positive impact on social entrepreneurship. The proposed amendment will equalise the conditions for carrying out trade activities within the European Union, as no Member State for the profession of seller and commercial manager has a minimum education. I repeat: none of the 27 besides us have a prescribed educational condition for these two professions. An analysis of the effects of regulatory changes on the economy, particularly on small and medium-sized enterprises, was made. The key point is that the changes follow the objectives of creating a business environment that promotes the development of entrepreneurship and competitiveness. For employees, greater flexibility in job search, promotion and self-employment will improve the business environment for family businesses, for employers. One of the main effects of the proposed regulation is flexibility in new employment and the allocation of workers. The signatories to the collective agreement on trade activity agreed that the area of education for certain typical jobs would be regulated in the collective agreement, the collective agreement was adopted in March 2014. The Ministry followed this coordinated approach in which the social partners agreed to adopt a collective agreement regime in the event of deregulation. At present, the law even allows flexibility agreed with the social partners. Deregulation of activities and professions is 10 strategic project of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and is also included in the action programme of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to remove administrative obstacles and improve legislation. Slovenia has 242 regulated professions, the Czech Republic has 396, Poland 347, the least Sweden has 88. Czechs and Poles will deregulation 50% of professions; our plan is 20%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u5	Would you like to have a word with the representatives of the parliamentary groups first? First Luke Moon, United Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u6	Thank you. I just wanted to point out that this is not a room for substantive debate, but we have proposed the withdrawal of the item from the agenda for two other reasons. The first reason is that the law is inconsistent with the social partners and within the government. The second reason is that he was on the committee with that quote from the Minister, that he did not withdraw the minimum education requirements, apparently presented in the wrong way or with the wrong data. Therefore, once again, we propose to withdraw the point and return to the debate because the law is inconsistent and, obviously, those who have proposed it do not have the right information on this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u7	The word has magic. Margareta Guček Zakošek, Emissary Group of the Modern Center Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u8	Thank you, President. The SMC Group will vote against the withdrawal of the point, because the law has been aligned with the social partners; namely, among the signatories to the collective trade contract on 1 May 2014, where Article 14 makes it clear that any person selling goods must be classified in Class 4 irrespective of education, work experience or knowledge; and any person performing the work of the manager in Class 5. We do not see any arguments here, so it is not a possibility of exploiting workers. The law was also fully intersectorally coordinated with the Ministry of Education. I would like to point out that the proposal for a novelty is based on the principle of a free economic initiative and, in general, provides greater employment opportunities, increasing the competitiveness of this part of the economy, which is clearly in a neglected situation in the field of the European Union, because we are the only ones to regulate this profession in this way. It is also a step towards removing administrative barriers, which also extends to the labour market. I would like to stress that this is an easier start, to make it easier to access activities, especially those of the unemployed, young people, and self-employment. Then it is a matter of facilitating the career advancement of people who are already motivated and have competences and cannot make progress because of regulation of managers. Therefore, it is also a matter of ensuring mobility within this activity and it is for all entities that today cannot sell goods due to this regulation. In particular, I would mention farms, craftsmen, micro-, small businesses, family enterprises, social enterprises that cannot open this activity today. In short, it is indeed a step in support of the economy, so the SMC Group, I repeat, will vote against the withdrawal of this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u9	Any other representatives of the parliamentary groups? No, no, no. Does the motioner want to step down? Not at all. Then I conclude by presenting my views on the proposal for withdrawal. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We decide on the proposal to withdraw the 11th item from the agenda of the meeting. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 56. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 56.]] I take it that the motion for withdrawal is not accepted. We are moving on to a full agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you received by reference. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 9th session has been set. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Your Honor! I have repeatedly warned the College, although I did not do so in the last college, that the opposition points, particularly the SDS proposals, are included in those days at the meetings of the National Assembly when there are no votes. In this case, the same thing happened. We are voting on Tuesday, we are voting on Wednesday, we are voting on Thursday, we are voting on Monday, but the two points we have proposed for the agenda are on Friday. I think that the classification of SDS proposals thus shows that we are not in an equal position to proposers. If we can discuss and vote on a package of electoral legislation on Wednesday, we could also discuss and vote on our law on the State Prosecutor's Office on Friday; or we could put these two proposals on the day of the hearings when the vote is also held. In short, no proposal I put forward in this mandate on how to place SDS items on the agenda of the meetings has been taken into account. And I must say that in the Group of Members we feel that we are not an equal partner with regard to the allocation of items on the agenda of the Meeting of the State. Mr President, I appeal to you to try this weakness or this error, which happens to us practically at each meeting of the National Assembly, to eliminate and that we also have our points on the agenda when the vote is taken. We have two points this time. They're both on the day there's no votes. It was similar the previous time, practically the same before. I hope that this practice will no longer be repeated in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u11	As far as the order is concerned, I do have jurisdiction. I usually take into account all the wishes given to me by the parliamentary groups and by the ministries; I try to respect them. There is nothing else I can do about setting this order for this session but to insist on it. But in the future, I'm going to count that you said that explicitly. I will consider it a systemic requirement that I will take into account in determining the order of the next meeting of the National Assembly. We move on to the 22nd Agenda item, which is at the request of the Group of Members and Members, that the National Assembly decide on the decision of the College of Presidents of the State to propose a law on amendments to the Water Act after a restricted procedure. At its 30th meeting, on 8 June 2015, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law on amendments and additions to the Water Act should be examined in a simplified manner. On the basis of Article 21, paragraph 10, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, 21 Members and Members with the first signed Mr Jozet Tank on 10 June 2015 requested the National Assembly to decide on that decision by the College. I give the floor to the representative of the applicant to request Mr Daniel Krivic to present his position. Guilty, sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. Honourable President of the National Assembly, representatives of the Government, Honourable President of the Government, colleague and colleague! In the SDS Group, we propose that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Water Act be considered on a regular basis; and not on short notice, such as the decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly. We are once again faced with the practice that an important system law governing the water sector is proposed for treatment in an unusual way. This may even be justified if this would happen immediately after the floods, if some pressing problems were also to be addressed at the legislative level. At the moment, there is no need to make changes through these short-term solutions without the need for a broader discussion of all involved. Experience in the adoption of comparable legislation in this way gives us our concerns, as problems due to poorly conceived solutions later pose a major obstacle to the implementation of the law in practice, and a number of times grateful material for the application of legal protection requirements and constitutional review. The draft law is not in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and of the Government which regulate precisely, which laws and when may be proposed in a reduced procedure. This procedure is permissible when it comes to less demanding changes and legislative additions. It is clear from the proposed amendments that there are major changes and new systemic solutions that cannot be addressed in the short term. In this case, it is not a matter of expiry of an individual article of the law or of its individual provisions. Nor is it less difficult to comply with other laws or with European Union law. The content of the explanation of the proposed amendment of the law by the proposer also confirms this. The current state of play in the field of water management from a organisational point of view is considered unsatisfactory, which has been particularly evident in a series of flood events in 2014. It therefore proposes a reorganisation in the field of water management, which would be carried out by combining management tasks in the field of water and by transferring certain powers to the Ministry or to the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Water as a body within the Ministry. In accordance with the delegation of power, the Ministry or body in the composition of the Ministry will take over the staff of the Institute of Water. This is certainly not a minor change. With the proposed solution to the extension of the transitional period for payment for water use for 2014-2015, the payment shall be extended on the grounds that not all concessional acts have yet been granted, nor has the Water Right Payment Regulation, which is granted by water permit, been adopted. In this case, it is only a matter of extending the rights already laid down by the law; and this is a change that saves a large number of operators who would be at risk of doing business. On the other hand, it is necessary to ask why not all the activities and regulations already laid down by the current law have been carried out. In the process of cross-cutting the Law on measures to balance public finances of municipalities, the draft foresees that the acquisition of services and building rights on water and coastal land should be free of charge, with the agreement of representatives of local communities. However, the Ministry argued that compensation for water and coastal land should be regulated at systemic level. It is reasonable, however, to charge symbolic charges for objects crossing watercourses, services and building rights. The proposed amendments to the law provide a legal basis for implementation, while at the same time drawing up a regulation for the establishment of compensation for services and building rights on water and coastal land. The Regulation is intended to provide for an exception agreed with representatives of local communities in order to determine the amount of the refund for the operation of local infrastructure facilities at 5% of the amount of the other compensation. In this case, too, it is not just minor repairs in marriage. The Water Act regulates the country's tasks in the event of water damage and the recovery of consequences. As regards intervention, it lays down only a few basic provisions on water protection and provides for the adoption of a guidance on concrete intervention measures. The manner in which they are carried out and the functioning of the public service adopted by the Minister responsible for the environment and defence in agreement. This leaflet was last approved in {MM/YYYY}. Not in the Water Act or in the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Disasters, but the period following the completion of the intervention has not been regulated. The proposed amendment to the law shall govern the period following the completion of the intervention under the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Accidents. In this case, too, it is not a minor correction, but a system-wide arrangement. In the past, in order to prevent corruption, the Commission has repeatedly pointed out the inappropriate adoption of legislation by means of a reduced and urgent procedure. This opinion speaks of the need to pay particular attention to all stakeholders in these legislative changes, in particular in terms of the principle of economy, the public, transparency, legal security and the management of corruption risks. Water management has a spatial, infrastructure and environmental dimension. At present, the organisation of this area is more subordinate to the environmental dimension and infrastructure is extremely inefficient. It is therefore even more important that we adopt laws in this area with due consideration. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Let me stress that we do not oppose the amendments to the Water Act. On the contrary, new solutions are necessary, but in our parliamentary group we propose that the law be not dealt with in a reduced manner and that the adoption of the normal procedure be confirmed. For the many substantive reasons that I have stated, I propose that you support this.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u13	We're moving on to decision-making. On the basis of Article 21, paragraph 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the National Assembly shall decide on the decision of the College without discussion and explanation of vote. I shall put to the vote the following proposal for a decision:The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Water Act shall be dealt with in a simplified procedure. If no decision is taken, the National Assembly will consider the draft law on a regular basis. We're voting. There were 73 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against and 24 against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 24.]] I note that the decision has been taken and that the assembly will therefore consider that proposal in the short term. We move on to 22B of the agenda, which is at the request of the assembly of Members and Members, that the National Assembly decide on the decision of the College of Presidents of the State to propose a law supplementing the Law on Public Layouts of Defence after a shorter procedure. At its 30th meeting, on 8 June 2015, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law supplementing the Law on Public Funds should be dealt with in a simplified manner. On the basis of Article 21, paragraph 10, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, 21 Members and Members with the first signed Mr Jozet Tank on 10 June 2015 requested the National Assembly to decide on that decision by the College. I give the floor to the representative of the applicant to request Mr Jožet Tank to present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues! In about two years, we are faced with a second amendment to the Public Funds Act. In this case, too, the applicant is the same. It should also be noted here that this bill does not, in any case, involve minor changes in the law, as the law provides the solution so far to allow the debt of the fund, which amounts to 10% of the capital of the fund, can now be increased to 50% of the debt by this law; or, in the case of a loan that is more than 30 years and more favourable than 2%, this permissible debt would be even 70%. The law has serious financial implications under these conditions. This is about €650 million. This is about one half of the annual deficit allowed in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. That's the financial consequence, and if those of you who are dealing with this area understand that, then you certainly can't establish that this is a minor change in this law. This law applies more or less to only two municipalities, the Municipality of Ljubljana and the Municipality of Maribor, which have relatively large housing funds. If this novelty is adopted and goes through after this procedure, this will allow these two congregations in some way to have a covert additional debt. What is happening to the budgets of the municipal municipalities? Especially in Ljubljana, we have seen, in some other cases, the case of Stožica, where this process has led to the fact that this burden has simply become a public debt. This is said to have divided the Ljubljana Municipality project into all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia because the municipality was unable to finance it; despite receiving European funding. In this case, when it comes to the project or to the aim of further discharge of the debt of the Ljubljana Municipality of Apartment Fund, this may also in some way constitute a covert indebtedness of the Ljubljana Municipality. The result will be the same – a covert debt and burden-sharing over public debt to all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Since the Ministry of Finance and the Government have not responded to this proposal of the law, I propose that this law be examined on a regular basis, that all the reasons for the proposal be considered in peace, that they have indicated to the proposer that this law has been proposed at all; and, of course, our reservations, that we do not, in this way, give any of the city's municipalities such a great opportunity to have such a high, inappropriate impact on the state of public finances. As it is said, I think it is necessary to think carefully about whether the coalition or the government will allow the two city funds to be committed even within one year for half of the authorised debt or deficit that the budget of the Republic of Slovenia has. I think that these numbers are essentially too high, that the resolution of the law is financially unsustainable and that it poses an excessive potential risk for citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Slovenia to deal with this law in a simplified manner. I therefore propose that you attach to our proposal and vote against the proposal for a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u15	We're moving on to decision-making. On the basis of Article 21, paragraph 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the National Assembly shall decide on the decision of the College without discussion and explanation of vote. To vote, the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law supplementing the law on public funds shall be dealt with in a reduced procedure. If no decision is taken, the National Assembly will consider the draft law on a regular basis. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 26. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 26.]] I note that the decision has been taken and the National Assembly will therefore consider that proposal for a law following a reduced procedure. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to one. At the time of the day, this is for questions from the Members of Parliament and the Members of Parliament. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received a written application of 49 questions from the Member States within the time limit. The order for asking questions shall be set in accordance with Article 244, paragraph 245 and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The first three questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government, both Members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition. Each Member or Member shall have three minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but does not have to ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not reply to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. Regarding this point, they apologized for today: Mr Gorazd Žmavc, Minister responsible for the area of relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian National Community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world; Mrs Irena Majcen, Minister for Environment and Space; mag. Goran Klemenčič, Minister of Justice and Mag. Ms Vesna Györkös Žnidar, Minister of the Interior. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar. First of all, the question of the question will be posed by the Magi. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u16	Thank you very much and thank you very much! At the proposal of the Alliance's Group of Ambassadors, together with the Group of Members of the Social Democrats, Desus and the United Left, we proposed recording the right to drinking water into the Constitution. Although we have tabled a proposal in the previous term, it has not been possible to discuss and vote on the part of the early state-run elections, or only a public presentation of the opinions has been made. The proposed amendment of the Constitution establishes the universal right to drinking water for all inhabitants of Slovenia under the same conditions and aims to prevent any privatisation of drinking water supply. Also because experience with the privatisation of drinking water, such as some countries and European cities, is not good. I would like to recall the experience of the countries of the European Union where the management of the water system has been privatised. Initially, privatisation was meant as a tool for better water management and better water quality, but the monopolistic position of the private has led to a deterioration in supply and prices have risen, so that many countries are now buying or terminating concession contracts. In addition, we have had extensive discussions at European Union level on a directive on the award of concession contracts that would allow large foreign companies to obtain a concession on the basis of tenders to manage certain of our water resources. More than one and a half million signatures of citizens and citizens of the European Union have been collected against this Regulation and there is nothing left for the Commission but to withdraw this area from the Directive. By entering water into the Constitution as universal and fundamental rights, we will prevent this at the highest level and give a signal to the European Commission that water supply with drinking water will not be intended in Slovenia to generate profits. Water is public goods and must be accessible to all under the same conditions. Before you became Prime Minister of the Government, in your column of March 2014 entitled Water – Slovenian life and strategic goods wrote that this proposal is most welcome, as it will open a constitutional debate on one of the most important Slovenian natural goods and allow for its additional protection; and that it is another very important task for the Slovenian government. You also wrote that if the government – consent to the directive – has already made a big mistake and signed the directive in question, it is no longer for the government or Slovenia to allow itself to make similar mistakes in the future. So I'm asking you: Will you now be as Prime Minister of the Government's proposal to amend the Constitution [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Water as a good thing for everyone in the Constitution supported? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u17	The President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u18	Thank you for the question, honourable Member Alenka Bratušek. In no way do I think differently than I did when I wrote the column you mentioned. I am still convinced that water is such an important vital human good, such an important part of the natural wealth of our country and country, and such an important strategic good for Slovenia and Slovenia, that we must do everything to protect it from any privatisation and from any other interference in this very good that would significantly undermine its quality or the accessibility of citizens to water. I am personally very happy and pleased that a constitutional debate on this subject has begun. I support this constitutional debate, but I expect at this stage what is usually in this debate – the opinion of the profession, the constitutional profession, which will draw attention to the individual aspects of this proposed amendment. Let me just mention that the right to drinking water, which I can personally support as a citizen alone, raises certain constitutional questions, as it is necessary to find out what legal consequences this entails; what equality means when it comes to accessing drinking water and other resources. I think we have to wait here now – the matter is already on the table and that is a good thing – for the opinion of the constitutional profession. If this opinion supports these changes as meaningful at constitutional level, as useful, important, urgent, in what I hope and want, I will certainly endeavour to support this also by the government. The government will address this in a special way and, I hope, adopt a positive position in this direction as well. Let me also mention that it is very important to also be aware that, according to the principle of the primacy of European so-called legislation, sometimes the constitutional norm is not enough to protect what the Constitution provides; for we know that in some cases, a European Union standard – namely, a legal, legislative directive, a regulation or something like that – may have a priority in force, in principle of primacy and directity. It will be particularly important, therefore, what you have pointed out that the government, Parliament and all the factors in society – and here we will always be grateful to civil society, if it continues to pay attention, to monitor what is going on in this area, reminds us that we would not once again be committed at EU level to any reckless action that might lead to any covert or even outright privatisations by water management or even water management. In any case, I am personally supporting this constitutional debate already, that it has been initiated. However, after this further consideration, when she tells her profession, it will also be time for all of us to speak about it — those parties in the National Assembly who have not yet given express support at this time will probably give it later, as well as the government. That would be my answer for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u19	Mag. Alenka Bratušek has the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Madam President. My question was raised today because of a different signal coming from your client, the modern centre's Party. A signal that you are preparing your proposal to amend the Constitution. As a constitutional lawyer, I believe you know that in one term the same content cannot be resolved twice. Thank you for your answer. Thank you for your support. However, I hope that you will also be able to convince your Members of the importance of this constitutional change.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u21	The Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, has the floor to respond to what has been said before.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u22	In this, as I would say, statement or finding was also an implicit question to which I would like to answer. Normally, the SMC Group, with which I am closely connected, is not an unfavorable constitutional change that would strengthen the protection of drinking water and the availability of water resources to remain in Slovenian hands. The SMC Group has only proposals for improvements that it wishes to verify in this process. It is thus necessary to understand this intention to come with its proposal, not with a new proposal, because it would probably be in conflict with what you said. However, it is important to understand that we are aware of the SMC, and we have examined this in detail, so much I must speak as the party president that it is a very demanding project. The right to drinking water, I stress – even comparatively, when I was in America – an extremely complex right, which is very difficult to introduce in such a way that it does not raise many open questions. At the same time, we are aware in the SMC that there is already legislation that is currently properly regulating the concession regime and so on, but we are also aware that legislation is a more vulnerable thing, that the Constitution may therefore be the place where this discussion and some outcome are likely to make sense. However, I assure you that the SMC party in Parliament, as well as as as part of the government, will discuss this very responsibly and that any acceptable, good, useful proposal in this direction will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u23	The second question will be raised by Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that. In 2003 and 2004, data were received on corruption in Telekom, on the cheap sale of Viator & Vector System Technology and a 300 million-dollar letter on the intention to purchase eight-wheelers with Pavčnik Systemic Technology. Known individuals and companies from the network of the current Liberal Democracy, such as Golobič, Ultra, Kocijancič and a number of other names, were involved. This was followed by the ROPO's government's pianist maneuver. She set up the Commission to prevent corruption, and Drago Kos became its president. But the Kosovo Commission has not investigated corruption in Telekom or the sale of Systemic Technology not involved in this publicly-recognizable corruption, but has been directing all activity to Patrio, followed by the trial against Janez Janša. It was a long-standing press of the public when the innocent became guilty; no mention was made of the culprits at Telekom. But you know the epilogue through the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Now the situation is similar. Data on corruption, crime and political connections in the creation of a bank hole and in the use of money in TES are coming on a day-to-day basis. Again, some of the same names are mentioned as those of Telekom, such as Golobič, Ultra and others, who participated in this bank hole. Although such crimes are dealt with by the NPU, the Special Prosecutor's Office, Furs, and we also have an investigator in the National Assembly. Your government is proposing a law by which the government would investigate the bank hole and TES with its investigative commissions, which means that it would take over the investigation of the NPU, the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office and the National Assembly. This is a similar approach to the establishment of the KPK and it seems that the same actors, the same grey eminence as decades ago, are behind this government project, and that the goal is the same – to find alternative culprits for the bank hole and TES. In spite of this, two of the former members of the KPK, Praprotnik and Kos, are probably already pre-emptively engaged in the Nova Ljubljanska Bank, the largest bank hole in order to properly prepare the files and direct investigations. Dear Prime Minister of the Government: Why did the Government decide to set up its own investigative commission at the National Investigation Office, the Special Prosecutor's Office? What is the point of this approach? Has any political party specifically recommended this law to a government official? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u25	The President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u26	Mr Jože Tanko, thank you for this question. At the beginning of the mandate, the government committed itself to trying to apply the rule of law in all its segments to a significantly greater extent, of course, even where it is necessary to make changes at the legislative level that will allow this. We have also decided, and this is enshrined in the coalition agreement, that we will investigate certain matters, let's say that this is where the revision of TES 6 will be carried out. And you are right, we are committed to investigating such irregularities as you mentioned, such as bank holes and the like, where we have found that the only way in this direction can be normally legal, such as in accordance with the Constitution and laws, in accordance with the rule of law; for example, the path so far, for the various investigative commissions, the various procedures of the state authorities, which may have acted too unrelatedly for each other, have not, as you yourself have found, brought enough success or, at some point, no success has been practically successful. That is why we have decided to propose to the National Assembly a special law on systematic investigations of state-of-the-state projects that will allow for the rapid, concentrated and comprehensive implementation of an independent investigation or supervision of large projects, such as the TEM 6 project or the emergence of bank holes and so on. Let me immediately say that there will be no doubt that no party is behind this law as a whole; this is supported by the government as a whole, a coalition as a whole. I think that this commitment is also undeniable in the light of the rule of law. Even if it were suggested by someone else, a special one, we could all be very happy about it. Let me say that there are no other actors behind this, no people behind it, no forces you mentioned. In particular, this government will not support, on the contrary, it will oppose the search for alternative culprits, so that political attention can be diverted from the real problems and from those true affairs that need to be explored. The bill I mentioned is the first attempt in the history of independent Slovenia, which, following the successful example of other countries, such as Iceland, Ireland and Austria, provides a legal basis for systematic investigations of irregularities in the implementation of major investment projects financed by all taxpayers. In the past, we have witnessed in virtually all investments of state importance a number of reverberating media reports of various suspicions, as you said, and then many have not seen a legal epilogue in the form of a consistent and comprehensive picture of the causes, factors and reasons for these irregularities. And even less in form — with what exceptions, of course, these were, even some commendable exceptions — with what kind of judicial epilogues. The proposal now provides a legal basis for the establishment of specific investigative committees to carry out focused systematic investigations or audits of all phases of planning and implementation of projects of national importance. The Commissions will be composed of representatives of key supervisory institutions and will be obliged to participate with them by all those involved in the project under investigation in any way. Their findings will also be presented to the public, and this is very transparent in the form of a report. It is that what an investigative commission at the level of the National Assembly cannot do because of its powers and the nature of its activities, or perhaps not just one body in the state system, for example, either the police or the Court of Auditors, and similarly, that this should be properly linked, by means of what the government proposes, these commissions, which will have related competences and activities, will be established. Then they will seek and investigate the matter in the manner mentioned in the law itself. Let me just say this: the main solution of the law is to enable a comprehensive and relatively short period of time an investigation into the preparation and implementation of the project of State importance, which raises serious doubts about the regularity, economy or usefulness of an investment or guarantee. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u27	Mr Jože Tanko has the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. The answer is inconsistent. On 28 October, you or Minister Klemenčič received a letter from Zares calling on the minister to prepare exactly the same law as the government passed on 28 October. Before, I didn't name those who were involved in various affairs for no reason. One of those deep in these stories — at Telekom, at the bank hole, and elsewhere — calls on the government to set up an investigative commission. Again, the aim is to refocus the case on finding the victims and then turn the blame on third parties. As far as NPUs and other institutions are concerned. We have a National Investigation Office in the country, which is a specialised criminal investigation unit at state level to detect and investigate complex crimes, in particular in the areas of economic and financial crime and corruption. In certain cases, as well as in the areas of organised crime, crime related to new information technologies and more complex forms of classical crime. In addition, we have a Specialised State Prosecutor's Office, so at national level we have everything that would allow a proper and specific investigation to be carried out. We don't need any ad hoc government committees. And since you are proposing that many former officials who were in these institutions, such as the Court of Auditors, the Constitutional Court, be the Attorney General, members of the KPK, and so on, do these acts, the question arises why they do not do so when they are in regular service. In the institutions where they are employed [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Mr President, I believe that what the government has been doing is merely deplacing, diverting attention from real projects to imaginary ones.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u29	The President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Mr Tanko, somehow I do not understand this concern of yours, I hope that not even the fear of establishing an even more effective body that will expand and maximize the control mechanisms already in place, that we will finally come to what we have not achieved in many ways before, in order to actually expose the people responsible for the many affairs that have damaged citizens for hundreds of millions of euros. I think we should look forward to doing this and doing it, but I leave this to the parliamentary debate, because, as you know, the law is now in the National Assembly. Let me just say that I don't know any letter that the party would really send to Minister Klemenčič. All I know is that I personally called the Minister to my interview last year and asked him to prepare a working proposal for this law as soon as possible, because he must not wait here to do so with the help of experts in the field of public administration, as well as external experts and other institutions. All I know is that we have been committed to this in part by the coalition treaty, in general also in that we are committed to the rule of law; specifically in that we need to carry out or encourage the revision of TES 6; and above all, as you know, I have constantly taken the initiative to improve our rule of law, to really develop it to be what we want it to be; and in that direction we are already working. A number of changes have already been proposed or are coming to the National Assembly. There will be still a number of improvements to the justice system, as well as to state administrations, and many more in this regard. Above all, I see in this, and I am ending what we are proposing here, one additional element, when at least the capacities we have are trying to pool together, is that we will finally reach out to who is responsible for certain, these serious scandals, which, as I said, have hurt people for hundreds of millions or even billions of euros; and that is also one of the reasons why we are in such a deep, still some financial crisis, from which, thank God, we are slowly and successfully breaking out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u31	Mr. Jože Tanko, you have the floor to request that the next meeting discuss the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. I am concerned about the Prime Minister's response. If the President of the Government finds that the National Investigation Office, the Special Prosecutor's Office, the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, the Anti-Money Laundering Office, the Anti-Corruption Commission and more - and these are the institutions that we have in this country - do not work, then the primary task of the President of the Government is to act: either by modifying the powers or instructing them to organise and connect otherwise, or simply proposing changes in these institutions. This is the task of the government, which is supposed to keep an eye on these matters. If you are proposing the establishment of a government investigative commission, in which, for example, the former Constitutional Judge or Constitutional Judge will be, let's say that this is Mr. Ribičič; or, for example, the former Supreme Judge or Supreme Judge, for example, that this is Mr. Polič; or that a former member of the Committee on the Prevention of Corruption will be on this committee; I have already mentioned two earlier, Mr. Pratnik, who is preventive in the bank, and Mr. Kos, who is there contractually preventively in the bank, and who is studying the file; then there will be nothing from this investigative commission, since we have already found that the PKK was established in 2004 solely to divert attention and seek a target where corruption and criminal acts have not taken place. That gave you an answer from the Constitutional Court. And if you're going to run these things like that, then you know there's a next target on the horizon. As for the letter. Mr President, I will hand you a letter dated 28 October from Zares addressed to the former President of the Senate for the prevention of corruption and to your Minister, Mr Klemenčič, where they propose this. In 2004, he was still in a position to propose to the Commission to prevent corruption; now he is in a position to give an initiative to a former client colleague to set up an ad hoc government investigative committee dealing with everything else but to investigate actual crimes in a bank hole. Mr Klemenčič, when he was a member of the KPK Senate, was looking at a bank hole, talking about grey eminences, but he simply did not want to tell the investigative commission and did not know anyone else. In short, Mr President, I am handing over this letter to you from Zares. Although we already have a general debate on the law, I propose that at the next meeting we also hold the reply of the President of the Government to the question put.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u33	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday 17 June 2015 in the framework of the votes. Thirdly, he will ask the Prime Minister the question of Luke Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. President of the Government! Your key promises before the elections were deliberate privatisation, along with effective and transparent governance of state property. You even put this in a coalition contract and placed it both among the "priority political content of future development". Before the elections, you were also clear about the concrete steps taken in specific privatisation procedures. In an interview with the weekly Mladina, published a good month before the elections, on June 6, 2014, you said that you were "expressively detained until the sale of Telekom", and the international news agency Reuters reported a month later on July 2nd that your party "opposes sales of Telekom Slovenije and Aerodrome Ljubljana". On 3 July, the current president of the National Assembly, Dr. Milan Brglez, confirmed for the MMC RTV Slovenia website that the privatisation of Telekom would not be undertaken in the way it is now, says the government of Alenka Bratušek, because "we are opposed to selling strategic infrastructure". You were already on 12 January this year, when you were practically a few months old as Prime Minister of the Government, also made it clear on the first RTV Slovenia programme when you yourself acknowledged the failure of that unfortunate privatisation list of 15 companies. You said, "The fact is, we have to admit that these 15 companies were placed on the list quite unstrategically, I would say non-systematically, without solid logic, but that is the past." However, this is no longer the past for you. Last week, June 10th is also on your initiative, because before the meeting you yourself invited the supervisors to vote, SDH confirmed the sale of Telekom to the British Cinven Fund, although in this sale the last weeks very problematic information was made public. There was a great deal of concern, from the concerns about economic eligibility and the developmental injury of sales to the fact that the price of comparable Telekoms across Europe should be at least once lower, to the fact that there are indications that some members of the Government have also confirmed that Cinven and Deutsche Telekom should be illegally negotiated for takeover. But if we go in order. First of all, I want to know: Why did you break your pre-election promise not to sell Telekom? Do you believe, however, that you have a democratic mandate to sell, given that 72% of the public opposes the privatisation of Telekom and that you have also, in essence, addressed voters with anti-privatisation positions before the elections? How do you explain the autonomy of SDH, given that you publicly called for SDH to be sold to Telekom? Do you find the price economically justified? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u35	The President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u36	Dear Member Luke Moon, thank you for your questions. As the first answer I would say, yes, I was extremely reserved for the sale of Telekom before I entered this role. And this was a time when Telekom was still in a slightly different situation, and at that time the decision of the National Assembly, which was adopted in 2013, was to initiate the privatisation of the 15 companies that were placed on the list set out by the National Assembly. This was the commitment of the National Assembly, which the former government also reiterated on some concerns at the level of the government and the coalition in the National Assembly. This decision was taken by the National Assembly. Firstly, I did not break any pre-election promise, because I never said I would stop the privatisation of Telekom; but I was held back, as you said, skeptical. You need to know that with each month Telekom is also failing because of the many actions of politicians who are lowering its price and because of the many leeches that have been attributed to us, because of many bad practices and because of many other factors – the lack of investment in the future and others. It's all been happening. The sales process has been in progress for some time, we've been doing this for over a year and a half. I have already said in pre-election that if the situation is such that something can be interrupted, we will; but the decision of the National Assembly is binding. At the same time, procedures were under way, the reputation of Slovenia would be compromised, the proper procedures would be, everything would be wrong; so privatisation is something that makes this government absolutely binding when we talk about 15 companies. I have not made any pre-election promises in this respect. However, as Prime Minister of the Government, I am very much encouraged and, at the same time as coalition partners, we have adopted a proposal for a State Investment Management Strategy. Here we are committed to what no previous government is; that we have very clearly defined which strategic companies in Slovenia, whose 24 strategic companies Slovenia wants to keep as such – more than 51 per cent owned, i.e. at least 51 per cent owned. Speaking of energy, we are talking about Luka Koper, railways, Dars, about everything that is strategically important for our country, and this is what our government has defined as such, it has also defined clear criteria for the further management of state assets, which we have not yet had. I think that this clearly expresses our concern that we want to manage and help manage this country as a driver of good governance. You know that this moment's population, people, citizens and citizens who oppose or support privatisation, do not have adequate data. They are informed by different media, you, political factors about this or that, here is manipulated, there are talk of some prices, double, triple, there are a lot of untruths, there are a lot of data that are completely fabricated. It's extremely politicizing. That is why SDH, the Slovenian State Holding, was established to finally withdraw from this process. That is why I have also expressed my full support for SDH to complete the procedure autonomously; however it may be. And the eyewitnesses that flew from yours and any other side to the government or to me, that in any way I exercised coercion over the holding company, are a complete nonsense. The impression flies to you and to some other policies and political parties that have for several weeks put pressure on Slovenian State Holding to sell or not sell Telekom. My intervention was this – do not give in to pressure, you are an autonomous body, you are experts, carry out a procedure like the government, as the congregation has taken in its position; and do not yield to threats. Unfortunately, there were also threats. I advocate that the process be carried on there. Telekom is not sold, the procedure is still ongoing and we leave SDH to carry it out in accordance with the procedures required. But the government, as you know, has withdrawn those concerns or eliminated the concerns that SDH has asked for; and where the government has been able to do so in accordance with its powers. Maybe next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u37	Port of the Moon, you have the floor to request a reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u38	Thank you. If I started in the back, I'd say that about SDH. I think there was a clear view here of all political parties, including yours, of the decision that supervisors are expected to make. And the decision they made would by no means have been taken as if they had not given in to pressure; but I think they have succumbed to the pressure of government and the pressure of some other political actors who demanded or who wanted the Supervisory Council to accept the sale. This already shows the underlying problem of SDH itself. Such decisions as Telekom or the sale of Telekom to those companies that will now be in the strategy are probably the most important decisions not only your government but for the next few years, if not even decades. And such decisions cannot be made by a quasi-technical independent body, but will always be political at the end of the day. Political debate will always take place around them, whether we want it or not. And I wouldn't call it pressure. I'd call it democracy. Another thing when you say you didn't break your promise. I read the statements I read earlier in order to show that you were also explicit about Telekom so you wouldn't sell it. Telekom was already on the list of 15 companies, and you knew that, and that's why I'm interested: Why did you change your position on the sale of Telekom as well as to the Aerodrome after you became a terminator? But I would ask you if you would answer two other questions: Do you think you have a democratic mandate for this? If you promised not to sell before the elections, then you changed your mind, the public disagrees, do you think you still have a democratic mandate to do so? Do you find the price you have earned economically justified?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u39	The word is given by the Prime Minister, Dr. Miro Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u40	Thank you. Let me get on with this last thing you asked me before. As for the price, I leave the SDH decision. The procedure is in progress. The government can't really get involved in this, and I can't get involved any less. But I would say something to you, you write – it is clear that the privatisation of companies such as Telekom is socially-developmentally harmful. Listen, these are the manipulations you give people, and then people are all confused. It's completely made-up. You have many Telekoms in Europe. In the largest and best-acting countries – from Sweden, Germany, Austria, Spain – where these Telekoms are mostly privately owned, they work well. Second thing. I never said it, but now I really don't understand it. Find me a statement to stop the sale of Telekom. That's a pure fiction. I've always said that as a citizen, I'm inclined to do this, maybe against the fact that the matter will have to be examined if we win elections if we get to the decision-making point, how and what to do next. Always. I never once said that to stop the sale of Telekom. I said that it would then be necessary to think about it according to the situation. The situation was just the way it was. The National Assembly adopted a re-decision in the summer, confirming it after a period of some reservation. It has also been confirmed by those who are now vehemently opposed to sales, which is, of course, a transfer to the end. I really think I've been completely transparent in all of this. You won't find a statement where I say you'll stop the sale of Telekom. [[Incomprehensible]] That's not a statement. I was well aware at the time that the situation would be unpredictable, since the decision of the National Assembly was already in force and some procedures had already been announced. And once again, I suggest we leave the decision-making here to SDH. I believe, even though you are partly right, that politics will always have its opinions, and it is right that it has them to express them, but I believe that SDH members – and are – are as mature and responsible as judges or others, in spite of these pressure from the public, to decide in accordance with their function. That is why we need to be appointed there – and that is what the government will do in the future, by the end of the month we will have a congregation, including new supervisors, which we now have to do, which I hope will be successful in carrying out this task. And that is why I want to depoliticise this decision, because the politicisation of this in recent years has brought Slovenia into such a deep crisis that we are now finally getting out of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u41	Luka Moon, you have the floor to request that the next meeting be held to discuss the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u42	Thank you. First, I have to give you a quick answer. First of all, I'm going to stand up for my position or our position that the privatisation of Telekom is developmentally harmful. It is true that some Telekoms across Europe are also privately owned, but few are owned by foreign private property, and fewer are owned by foreign speculative funds such as Cinven. We cannot compare ourselves here with Germany’s Telekom or Austria; but we can compare sales, as SDH did, with the suggestion of our government, with that of Croatian or Montenegrin Telecom. And if we compare our development to the development of these two Telekoms, it will become very clear. Otherwise, I propose that we address this point at the next meeting, because the Prime Minister has not provided clear answers to the questions. I'm going to read the quote again, which clearly shows that I didn't say you said that. To stop the sale, but you were clear. "Our client opposes the sale of Telekom and Aerodrome Ljubljana." This statement, in my opinion, cannot be read in the eyes of an electorate in any other way than that there will be no sale of these two companies during your term of office. That is why I insist here that, as a party, and also personally, before the elections of citizens and citizens, you commit yourself not to these sales. I propose a debate to discuss the mandate for such actions and, secondly, the eligibility of those acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u43	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday 17 June 2015 in the framework of the votes. Fourthly, Mr Tomaž Gantar will raise the issue to the Prime Minister of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, Minister and Minister, present! The current developments regarding the move of the Bank Management Company regarding the acquisition of 41 hotels require, in my opinion, serious reflection on whether this institution, which is the founder of the Republic of Slovenia, is exercising its powers seriously and responsibly and thus carrying out the mission entrusted to it by our country. I believe that tourism represents in the long term one of the few remaining and important development opportunities for Slovenia's economic and economic growth. This is only partly followed by the Country Capital Investment Management Strategy, which is prior to the adoption of the National Assembly and which does not clearly classify tourist companies as individual categories, from strategic to important and portfolioal. At current events in connection with the DUTB move, which takes over or wants to take over 41 hotels, which is one third of the accommodation capacity in Slovenia, the issue of the role and importance of tourism for the long-term development of Slovenia, as well as the role of the Bank Claims Management Company, which can literally put State interest on the head with such a move. President-in-Office: Do you think tourism represents a strategic activity for Slovenia and should be clearly defined in the Strategy as such? Are you assessing that the DUTB is responsible and in accordance with the purpose and objectives of exercising its powers as a result of which it has been established? What is your evaluation of the effectiveness of this company? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u45	The President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u46	Dear Member Tomaž Gantar! Tourism undoubtedly represents strategic activity and the territory of Slovenia. We know that it generates as much as 12 % of GDP, which is also an important export activity that covers good 8 % of total exports in the Slovenian balance of payments and more than 40 % of exports of services. We are Slovenians and we must remain committed to tourism. And that's why we also have to adapt to economic activity, and each and every one of us, I would say, to the behavior of all of us, to this as well. Let me take this opportunity to say that tourism is not only hotels, restaurants, cultural heritage and much more, but also every one of us. Every single one of us that protects a healthy, clean environment. Each of us, who has a friendly smile for the stranger who speaks to him, helps him, which protects nature and the like, is part of tourism. However, while tourism is a strategic activity, this does not mean that all investments in tourism must be defined as strategic investments of the country. You have rightly found that some are defined as portfolio, important and so on, or strategic. Here you should look at the criteria for each hotel or any other investment that the criteria are met. There is probably a difference between one investment and another, between an investment in an elite tourist location, which is irreplaceable, for example at the Slovenian sea or at another location, which is slightly different or has some other meaning for tourism. Here I believe that in the strategy we have made very clear the criteria for where we have classified individual investments. As you know, this is now within the competence of the National Assembly to define it. I hope that this debate will be constructive. We support tourism, there is no doubt, we will do, I hope, all together, that it will live and live even more than it has in recent years, and the government, as you know, has already taken a few steps in this area, not least with the independence of the Slovenian Tourist Agency, which will now once again as an independent factor particularly promote tourism. With regard to the Company for Bank Claims Management, DUTB, this decision was actually very radical, it surprised everyone when she decided to take over, if I made it easy, these hotels were at their disposal and in some kind of rehabilitation. In view of the state of affairs, it is good that things are first clarified legally, and it is necessary to determine whether everything was lawful and in accordance with the laws. This is where the procedure is now running, the case is temporarily stopped and that's good. Here we now leave the judicial authorities and others to do their duty. You know the government has been critical until the DUB's operation. At first, the government did not accept, rejected the DUTB report for 2013, we were appalled at the abnormally high profits and the unorganised or poorly organised, even controversial business. The government then decided when it adopted the revised report in order not to grant discharge to the DUB. The government replaced the non-executive DUTB directors, this is the first step it has taken to improve its functioning. The government, as you know, has radically reduced the remuneration of members of the board or directors and has shown that it cares about getting this matter in order. The government is preparing or preparing proposals for legislative changes, as you know. It is true, however, that DUTB also improves its activities. In 2014, those who are closer to this work, which is assessed directly and bring me information, are coming to our attention that the operation is significantly improved. A good example of such action and cooperation with the government where possible and possible is the case of Cimosa. This was a good example of how DUTB with some elements can also restructure. The combination of all activities will enable a company to survive well, to preserve most jobs and so on. We are now waiting for an assessment of what the DUTB will be like. But like you said, it's right that we're critical. The government is making changes, some have already made. As far as these hotels are concerned, let me mention that the matter is not one-layered. Last year, this is data from yesterday, before yesterday, we had a bigger tourist visit, and hotels were generally dealing with loss. This also says something about how we do business in tourism. Maybe there are a few reasons why DUB decided to take a step — whether this will be radical [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u47	I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we turn to the questions raised at the 8th meeting of the National Assembly. Minister of Justice Mag. Goran Klemenčič should answer Dr Vinko Gorenak's question regarding the procedures of the Ministry of Justice following the publication of the Commission's report on the prevention of corruption related to the corrupt conduct of the Attorney-General; and Ms Ksenija Korenak Kramar regarding the seizure of property of illegal origin; but he is absent today due to the participation of the Justice and Home Affairs Council in Luxembourg. I ask the MP if you insist on an oral response, do you want the minister's written reply? The Minister will then respond orally to Mr Gorenak's next meeting of the National Assembly. Minister of Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravko Restovalšek will answer Mr Marijan Pojbič's question regarding the requirements of Slovenian craft and entrepreneurship. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u48	Mr President, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, Mr Pojbich! The oral question concerns the requirements of Slovenian craft and entrepreneurship. My response: The Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise each year prepares the requirements of Slovenian craft and entrepreneurship, which the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology examines with all due diligence and seriousness, since we have been assigned by the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology to be a representative of the economy within the Government and to advocate that conditions for entrepreneurship will be better than they have been before and that there will be no further additional burden on the economy. However, since the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia has presented its 10 requests for Slovenian crafts and entrepreneurship, I continue to give short answers to all 10. Firstly, a different installation of the tax registers. The bill is being prepared by the Ministry of Finance, in line with the proposal of the law, tax receipts will have to be available to all cash dealers from the beginning of the following year, from 2. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. As part of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, we have made this introduction as less burdensome as possible for the economy as possible, not just for craftsmen in both areas, in an investment sense. More importantly, through the system itself, we do not steal the maintenance cost of this system, which would further burden the economy. We are afraid that only those who are already covered in this system would be covered and that those who are not in this system would continue to fall out of it. And this is what we have pointed out by the Ministry of Finance, although we find that, according to their proposal, an additional EUR 50 to 100 million should be covered through the tax registers. Second point, different arrangements for compensation for employers in the event of accidents at work. The Chamber of Commerce proposes to delete or substantially amend the provisions on compensation in the event of accidents at work where employers are in fact sentenced to a regression claim, as there is always a risk of injury at work, even if all the prescribed or specific measures for safe work are met. The meeting of the Trade and Entrepreneurship Council has therefore agreed to set up a special group of representatives of the Ministry and Chamber of Commerce and Industry, within the framework of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which will find solutions to this issue as soon as possible, which was also raised at this year's Summit of the Small Economy or the meeting of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia in Bled a few days ago. Thirdly, appropriate property taxation with property tax. In early February 2015, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia established a project council that coordinates and directs the preparation of a new system of real estate taxation arrangements. The new taxation system is to be updated with compensation for the use of building land, the new taxation system should cover all real estates, unless it is appropriate to provide for exemptions for specifically justified reasons. The scope of the estimated revenues of the updated real estate taxation system already included in the taxation so far should not significantly deviate from the amount of revenue to be recovered. On average, therefore, the new system would not significantly derogate from the compensation for the building land fund. On average, Slovenia will have minimal differences in certain areas where some are already higher than the average, others are lower. Fourth case, workload. In principle, the decommissioning of income in Slovenia has been declining since 2005; the government has also committed itself to the decommissioning of labour costs by signing a social agreement. In addition, we have committed ourselves to considering the possibility of reshaping the income scale to relieve the wages of a highly skilled workforce. We are seriously working on the proposal for a law on the remuneration of workers from profits, which will further burden the costs of work, but in this case there are [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] which are in the system of profits. Fifth, lower network costs. We advocate the system that it is only appropriate to take into account proposals which are aimed at taking account also [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u49	Mr. Marijan Pojbič, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u50	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Mr. Secretary, I'm very sorry that after what you've said so far, I couldn't hear what I expected from you. I wanted you to respond to all these 10 demands. You didn't answer three. You barely started fourth. I think it would be right for you to have this option and say it because, otherwise, it is irrelevant for Members to ask you on the one hand, on the other hand, we cannot get the answer that was expected. At the same time, Mr. Minister, I would like to say the following. Today you have used Turmin in all three matters that you have explained, – we will set up a commission, we have agreed to set up a commission, we will set up a project council and so on. I just don't understand how much longer in this country we're going to be setting up commissions, project councils, I don't know what else is going to come up with some concrete solutions that entrepreneurship and a small economy still needs. They need not only entrepreneurs and craftsmen, but this country also needs them. I think that by setting up new commissions, project councils, and I don't know what we're not going to take forward, except that we're going to be even more bureaucratic about the biracialised Slovenian country. Mr. Minister, you're coming from the economy. At the very least, I would expect you to have a firm hand, as you said here at the outset, when you talked about what your goals are in this ministerial place, that you will take a firm hand along the path of rehabilitation of the Slovenian economy. But obviously that's not the way it is, obviously things aren't going in the right direction. Again you try to bypass what is crucial, and in this way, when you say, you are setting up some commissions and so on, purely bureaucratic solutions that have nothing to do with concrete solutions. I therefore propose that this be voted on at the next meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u51	This one's too fast. First the Minister has to answer, then you can demand it. Mr Zdravko Restoršek, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u52	I've reached the fifth point of ten. One commission has been set up to solve this problem and is working on it. Secondly, a very specific law is being prepared to reduce the burden of labour costs. Sixth, amendments to the Labour Relations Act. It is an open topic where we are aware that we need to move forward in the direction of flexible employment and forgiveness and in the direction of solutions in the area of seasonal labour. The Ministry of Labour, together with us in this area, will open up this topic. Of course, we need to reach consensus before we open this issue. Week, effective enforcement and regulated insolvency legislation. Despite a number of measures and amendments to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance, which we wanted to contribute to speeding up procedures and their effectiveness, we are aware that companies are still facing difficulties caused by payment non-discipline. However, there is also some responsibility on the part of businesses whether they need to know who they are dealing with at the beginning of the business. Eighth, full re-enactment of public procurement. The new law is in preparation. Nor can this law accurately solve these problems. Here I believe that an important part of the responsibility must be taken over by the contracting authority of this business, who can already find certain solutions in existing legislation, but not all of them. The key to the problem is not only in the lowest price, but it is in the system-wide preparation of the issues that we come up with that the public sector can carry out public procurement in an corrective manner. The problem is that in the same law we have an order of apples for kindergarten and a 20 or 30 million investment in construction, in particular a hospital. Ninth time, efficient European funding. Today, an important event has occurred that we have reached the last point when we come to a smart specialisation strategy. We already have three institutions within the Ministry to support investment, small and medium-sized economy, as well as a large Slovenian Enterprise Fund, the Ribnica Development Fund and the SID Bank. At our ministry, we have a reserve of 276 million for research and development by 2020 and 526 million for small and medium-sized enterprises. And the conclusion, for the tenth time, of a more efficient system of vocational education, of deregulation of professions. We intend to deregulation 20% of 242 [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] And we've already put the first two in circulation.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u53	Mr. Marijan Pojbič, you have the floor to request that the next meeting discuss the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u54	That's right, Mr. President. Because you had me fooled by your guidance earlier when you said so I didn't think I'd be able to talk anymore. But I wanted the minister to have this opportunity to say what he just said. I don't think with what the minister said, entrepreneurs and craftsmen can be satisfied. Because one is the word, and the word was used again – we intend. Yeah, look, we're establishing, we're planning, this is what the Slovenian people have over their heads. And it doesn't matter which one of the ministers here speaks, we hear this over and over and over again. However, there are no concrete measures and solutions; except that, as you have, Mr Minister, you yourself have estimated tax receipts – yes, but certainly not according to what craftsmen and entrepreneurs have proposed. It's not consistent with that. I am waiting and I expect from the government very concretely that we are not only talking, but that we are also hearing each other and that we are once starting to put in place appropriate measures that will actually go hand in hand with craftsmen and entrepreneurs and thus also provide new jobs, better jobs with higher added value and so on. This is the only way in this Slovenia, we can talk about anything else we want; if we do not go this way and do what is absolutely necessary here, it is not to be expected that Slovenia will emerge from the current crisis. These positive effects, which are now in sight and which are happening, are certainly not the result of measures taken in this area by the current government, certainly not. It is known exactly what the result is – the result of a year of the Janša government, which has adopted some key reform solutions. I would like this government not only to sit in its seats, but specifically to propose solutions that will. Because if this government proposed concrete solutions, entrepreneurs and craftsmen would not write it. They don't write this as a joke. They write to alert you to where are the key problems and traps that need to be solved at government level. The government has scissors and linen in its hands so that they can function normally and ensure all that is necessary and employ, Mr Minister. One more thing. We talk a lot about a very problematic situation when we talk about people with a minimum wage. Why should not the government propose, as in Austria, for example, where a thousand 300 euros are not taxed? We already have between €500 and €600, which are already taxed. There should be changes and taxes on these minimum wages should be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u55	We will consider this a proposal for a general debate, so your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 17 June 2015, in the framework of the votes. The next Minister of Health, Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc, will answer Mrs Ive Dimic's question regarding the reorganisation of the emergency medical care service.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! Mrs. Dimic, thank you for asking. As has been said several times before, the proposal for a regulation has been put into public debate. It was aimed at obtaining comments from the public concerned, as well as additional expertise with a new concept of emergency medical care. As I have said many times before, we will carefully examine all comments and arguments at the Ministry and, of course, all those who are justified and substantively justified, even in the final proposal of the Rules. However, let me mention what is actually going on in the course of the debate, after which a debate was held throughout Slovenia that comments on the provision of 24-hour health care will be adopted in the final form of the Regulation and the proposal for a Regulation will not change until the further implementation of the on-call service. At the same time, the transitional period shall be extended for one year, so that there will be no changes to the on-call service by the end of March 2019, as it has now worked. Furthermore, the Ministry also plans to carry out regular analyses of all data obtained by the establishment of the health department. This will give us information on the actual burden at the time of carrying out the on-call service. On the basis of these actual data, and also on the basis of regular and extraordinary controls over the operation of emergency medical units, relevant analyses will be carried out. On the basis of these analyses, it will be possible to modify the network of emergency medical care providers. Therefore, there is a possibility that a satellite emergency centre can also be established in Cerknica if this data can reasonably show that such a centre in Cerknica is needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u57	Mrs. Iva Dimic, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u58	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear Madam Secretary! There were many words regarding the arrangements for emergency medical care in Slovenia, satellite emergency centres, we had a meeting of the committee, including an extraordinary meeting of Parliament. I hope that you and my colleagues, mayors or whatever, have managed to present any problems to the region of Cerknica or Notranjska. Therefore, my continuation was in the direction of considering the possibility of establishing eligibility also for the construction of a satellite centre in Cerknica. You said you'd think about it on the basis of arguments. In those days, I myself received an initiative from the Cerknica Fire Association, which is also essentially seeking to ensure this in Cerknica. Last of all, if I just look this evening at how black it was, how firefighters were activated, there were two traffic accidents between Postojna and Logatec, I think Cerknica plays a very important role in this time zone too. However, because it is about saving lives and ensuring some health security, which is certainly important to us, I think you will also take this into account. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u59	Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister for Health, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. In order not to repeat myself, I say once again that, in fact, given the extension of the transitional period and in view of the fact that, until further notice, the system of carrying out the on-call service will remain as it is today, I do not see any fear or fear that citizens may be in any way concerned that this emergency assistance will be worse. It'll get better. And once again, yes, indeed, after all the analyses and actual measurements, if the arguments show up, this network of satellite centres can change within a transitional period.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u61	Now, Minister of Health, Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc will answer to Mr Ivan Hršak about the abuse of the substitution drug treatment programme.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. On 6 April 1994, the doctrine of addiction treatment was confirmed by the Health Council and then re-examined and confirmed in 2000. Maintenance with methadone and other substitutes is also considered as treatment under the Health Council criteria. In Slovenia, outpatient treatment of illicit drug users is carried out by drug addiction prevention and treatment centres. In Slovenia we have 18 such centres, which treated 4 000 21 patients in 2013. Of these, 3 000 436 patients were included in the substitution therapy programme. For the implementation of the programme in these 18 centres, the Department of Health Insurance allocated EUR 2 million in 2014 EUR 530 000 837. What, though, are the effects of this maintenance of substitution methadone therapy, as asked by the esteemed Member? The first effect of this treatment is to reduce the use of opiates and the risk of infectious diseases. Another very important effect is prevention of death due to overdose. Maintenance substitution therapy with methadone reduces the illicit use of opiates. Studies have shown that the decline in prohibited use is related to the duration of treatment involvement. After one year of inclusion in this treatment, urine analyses show a reduction in heroin use in 80 to 90% of treated patients. The long-term involvement in this treatment is also due to the reduction or cessation of additional use of other psychotropic substances. Maintenance substitution therapy with methadone and buprenorphine also reduces the risk of HIV, hepatitis C and other infectious diseases. As a result, this treatment greatly reduces drug damage, both individually and at public health level, mainly due to the risk of transmission of infections. As a result, only 6 new registered cases of HIV infection have been observed in Slovenia in the last 15 years. In comparison, for example, in Greece, savings in money during these years have even increased by 10 times these HIV infections because they have abandoned these treatments. The next important effect is the prevention of death due to overdose, with only 28 deaths due to drug poisoning in Slovenia, compared with more deaths in previous years. It is also said that there is an important effect on the recording of death from drug poisoning. And if we look at what the cost-effectiveness of this treatment is. A study was conducted in Slovenia in 2007. It was prepared by the Dutch Institute for Mental Health and Addiction, which, together with the Faculty of Social Work of the University of Ljubljana, prepared this evaluation of the practice of prescribing maintenance substitution treatment. It has found that Slovenia is very successful in this work and is at a high level compared to other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u63	Mr. Ivan Hršak, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, chairman. Thank you for your answer, Minister, but one part of my question was that in practice there were abuses, as the ministry reacted to these abuses if it had even responded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u65	Answers Minister of Health Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u66	Thank you. For this purpose, we have appointed a Commission at the Ministry this year to oversee the work of the Centers for the Prevention and Treatment of Drug Addiction. In the coming months, the Commission will carry out thorough controls on the work of all these centres and determine whether they are acting in accordance with the Law on the Prevention of the Use of Prohibited Drugs and on the findings of this Supervisory Commission, in order to ensure that abuses occur in the centres, as you state, the Ministry will take appropriate action. However, we must be aware that patients involved in this treatment system are essentially patients requiring primarily medical treatment and not so repressive treatment. However, it is also a matter of determining whether these centres operate in accordance with the legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u67	Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Health, will now answer to Mr Jožet Tank regarding the Emergency Medical Aid Regulation.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u68	Thank you. I don't want to repeat myself, maybe just a few extra points. Wide public debate and visits across all regions in the territory of Slovenia on the basis of a proposal for a regulation that we have put into public debate, we have received comments, additions to the various recommendations, which, as I have already mentioned, we are thoroughly examining, substantively reviewing and will appropriately include them in the final proposal for a regulation. As I have already said, we can see that the final version of the Regulation will contain some amendments and additions. This extension of the transitional period has already already been mentioned, so that in fact all health care homes and emergency medical units can gradually adapt to the new methodology and to a new way of working, so that we can make time when we can have and measure data on actual response in individual cases when it comes to life-threatening conditions. I really need to stress once again, after several public hearings have been heard about the extension of available time mainly for rural areas, so that in the new proposal we can actually align the standards for actually accessible times both for urban regions and for rural areas. However, I would like to say about the currently available times, which the public are talking about, that we do not actually have any accessibility criteria in the existing system. These available times are specified subjectively, i.e. the times actually recorded by doctors after they receive a call for help. As a result, in practice, there are individual cases where these recorded and actually accessible times differ because we do not have actual and objective criteria. This will not be the case in the future, since the dispatcher service will be able to show very clearly and effectively what will be the right response time. This is one of the important acquisitions that will be made by the new regulation so that we can change and adapt the necessary emergency medical assistance network based on actual available times. This network will adapt, thus giving an opportunity or the possibility that where it will be found to be actually needed – we know that we will also make an emergency centre Ptuj – but also where it will prove necessary to have a satellite emergency centre that will meet these criteria in order to adapt to this future period. However, as I have said, on the basis of the factually substantiated data and the needs of the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u69	Mr. Jože Tanko, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, because such changes that are proposed, even if there is a public presentation in the field, they run into resistance because, as you have actually found, we do not have on the table of comparisons, real comparisons between the times of intervention in individual areas. In view of what has been submitted by means of a new regime and that map on the network of such or other centres, it is clear that accessibility has been improved in some or some areas, as there is also a different way of intervention or method of coverage from another centre. This certainly affects the great revolution and also the response. The key problem here is, in fact, as has been established, and I have presented it myself, rural areas. This is said to be the large areas of Slovenia, relatively rarely inhabited, relatively poorly supplied with telecommunications and also faced with the spillage of people into larger urban centres. Therefore, those who live in these areas and pay all the same taxes as all other citizens do not have any bonus for this. At least they are expected to do so elsewhere, at least in the field of emergency medical care, safety and survival, at least about the same conditions as they had, if not better. Now, if this happens, as the Minister says, it is said that the conditions in these areas will least remain or improve, then probably even in accepting and supporting such things [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] It is difficult to hope that this will happen because we do not have any communication channels available, no time, and I would expect this to continue in the implementation of this project. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u71	Answers Minister of Health Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u72	In fact, the purpose of the new methodology and this proposal for a regulation was to ensure that all Slovenes and Slovenes are equally accessible when their lives are at risk. At the same time, however, we do not make the availability and care of those 640 thousand Slovenes and Slovenes who seek help from a family doctor during the duty period. On the contrary, it was also intended that in fact family doctors in one part, i.e. part of emergency medical care, should relieve this work and leave it to special specialists who are trained to do so and have the appropriate experience to give family care doctors more opportunities to spend more time on their people in the infirmary, and that even after all, there would be no longer a situation where they had to decide when they received a call for help, let us say in two cases, whether they would help one or another patient who was both in critical condition. Which means that in fact someone will always be available for 24 hours and that the door of the healthcare home will never be closed.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u73	Minister of Health Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc will answer Mr Jožet Horvat's question regarding the establishment of a satellite emergency centre in Lendava. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u74	Thank you for the question, Mr. Horvat! The emergency medical service providers' network in the proposal for the NMP Regulation was prepared on the basis of available data on the implementation of the emergency medical care service and on the basis of actual data both from the Health Insurance Office – when we register with our medical card – and also taking into account the actual data that they have sent us and reported to health homes. It is true, however, that those data that were obviously sent by individual health homes were either due to a lack of recording or because of, I don't know, a bit of awkwardly defined data occurred that, after we held a public debate, we got in the field, as if some data did not correspond to a purely factual situation. However, I would like to point out that we have come from all the possible actual data that Slovenia has in the NMP area right now and in any way have been obtained. As I was saying, we also visited your area. We have also received quite a few comments from this area, all of which will be examined and included in the Rules of Procedure in a reasoned manner, if, of course, they indicate that some of the facts are different than were originally proposed or proposed. Once again, for the area of uninterrupted healthcare, the annex to the Regulation will be adequately supplemented, where, as I say now, there will be no changes to the area where on-call services operate, so this annex to the Regulation will be adjusted and corrected accordingly. There will be no further changes in the Lendava area as far as on-call service is concerned. To avoid repeating myself further, based on the dispatcher’s centre and data analysis, we will check and determine whether Lendava — what you are asking — is also eligible for a satellite emergency centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mrs. Minister of Health! I sincerely thank you for this communication, and also here I publicly thank you for your visit to you and your team at Rakičan Hospital, where you have also heard quite a few arguments about Lendava becoming a satellite emergency centre. Actually, I didn't expect you to explicitly and mathematically answer my question whether Lendava would be a satellite emergency center or not. I see – and I am also grateful for this – that you are making additional efforts with your team to study the right data and that somehow, as I understand it, the matter could go in this direction so that Lendava would eventually receive a satellite emergency centre. This is indeed a specific geographical position, it is not to be forgotten that there is also a Hungarian self-regulatory national community, i.e. residents who speak Slovenian and Hungarian. This is certainly an additional reason for the establishment of a satellite emergency centre. I don't want to, Madam Minister, that when we talk about the rule that we have some political conflicts here – God forbid! Surely we are here when it comes to emergency medicine, which is a promising project, here we must be on the same side, on the common side, looking for some good, optimal solutions within our capabilities. That is why I will also be pleased if you continue to listen to us Members, all Members, and that you will also listen to the arguments coming from the ground. In this context, of course, I also expect further developments or adaptations to the emergency medical regulation, for which I, of course, want Lendava to be written as a satellite emergency centre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u77	Thank you very much. He wants to speak to the secretary? Here you go, Minister Mary Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u78	I don't think there's anything to add to that. I think we're all on the same side, that's on the patient's side when we need this help. This was also the purpose of the rulebook and also our purpose, why we took more time and, I would say, we went through Slovenia to represent not only solutions, a new approach, but that at the same time we were completely from the local levels of all those stakeholders working in this system, we would also get feedback and problems, and we will continue to do so in all parts of changing the health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Minister of Health Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc will answer Mrs Dušana Radič's question regarding the emergency medical procedure. Here you are, Minister Mary Milojka Kolar Celarc, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u80	Thank you. During the public debate, the Ministry organised regional consultations, inviting all directors of regional hospitals, directors of health homes as well as representatives of local communities and the general public. The purpose of these consultations was, as I have already said, to clarify the innovations brought by the Rules, but of course the participants also had the opportunity to ask questions, to make comments to which we have tried our best to respond professionally. At a meeting at the General Hospital Ptuj on 9 May this year, following the presentation of the anticipated news provided by the Regulation, a discussion took place, inter alia, on the issue of Ormož Municipality. The Ministry explained that the Regulation lays down a transitional period, mainly related to the construction of the building blocks of the new NMP system, namely the Ptuj Emergency Centre. As we know, there are some reasons why this facility has fallen off the core network. Until then, in this area, which will be organised by the future Ptuj Emergency Centre, the organisation of emergency medical care will not change into anything. The Ministry and I will make every effort to provide budgetary resources as soon as possible, but at the Ptuj Hospital they will also prepare project documentation in a timely manner so that this project can be included in the national development programme. Because without it, money won't do us any good, because we won't be able to start construction. As I have already mentioned, a single health dispatch service will be established during this time, allowing us to obtain real and reliable data on the number of interventions for each area, as well as data on actual burdens at the time of carrying out the on-call service. So far, as I've mentioned, we've obtained this data on the basis of the units themselves at the local level. On the basis of both the data obtained and the controls carried out, we will revise the emergency medical care providers network, also modify it, and, as I have already said, Ormož can also be classified as a satellite emergency centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete the answers? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u82	Madam Secretary, thank you very much for your answer. However, I also wish you every success in implementing the emergency medical assistance project.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u83	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the question of Members and Members. Mr Mag will ask you a question. Mr Marko Pogačnik to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac. Here you go, Mr. Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u84	Thank you. Now Foreign Minister Karl Viktor Erjavec is not written to be absent, but he is not here, so I propose that the Government ensure the presence of the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u85	I'm informed she's on her way. We can stop the meeting for a few minutes, if that's all right with you. I'm adjourning the session in five minutes. The meeting is resumed on 14.18.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u86	We continue with the 9th regular session of the National Assembly. We are moving on to questions of Members and Members. Mr. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will ask the Master of Foreign Affairs, Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u87	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister for Foreign Affairs! There is a lot of talk about Slovenia, about embassies abroad. We know that the Slovenian embassies should be the ones that in some way would not only support Slovenian citizens and citizens in the countries where they are, but in particular support for the economy. In recent years we have heard a lot about how the Republic of Slovenia plans to open an embassy in the Middle East and I am interested in: How far is it with this project and when will the Slovenian Embassy in the Middle East come to life? We all know that the Middle East is a huge opportunity especially for Slovenian companies. We know that the Middle East is probably the area where the world's largest imports are also seen. The Middle Eastern countries are simply committed to what they are processing, to what they have, and to all the other things they import. I am convinced that until Slovenia has an open embassy in the Middle East, it will be a major handicap for the Slovenian economy. I want to know: What stage is this project in? Is it seriously intended to open this embassy? In the event that: When is this framework deadline, the framework objective you set for this embassy to be open? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Mr Karl Viktor Erjavec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you for asking, too. Good-bye, everybody! As far as the diplomatic network is concerned, I must say there is a different perception in public. Some believe that the Slovenian diplomatic network is too wide in view of the economic situation, given the budgetary options, but I am convinced that most of the public and the profession, as well as politicians, supports to strengthen the diplomatic network. As for the Middle East and probably the Gulf, I can say that there is an embassy and a representation in Israel in Ramala, which is within the framework of Palestine. As far as the Gulf is concerned, let me say that at the end of May, I had a conference between the EU and the Gulf States and we also had bilateral meetings and that it was also expressed by the Ministers for Foreign Affairs of the Gulf States. I met with the Foreign Minister of Kuwait, then the United Arab Emirates and Qatar. The problem that arises is, of course, money, financial resources. The budget applicable to 2015 does not contain these resources. I hope that we will provide adequate budgetary resources in the coming year, because in fact the Gulf is that perspective, it is one of the financial centres, so it would be necessary for Slovenia to have its representation as soon as possible. Let me say that we have also done the analysis and that after this analysis it shows that even two locations would be most appropriate. It would be best to have the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. However, I can say that Qatar has offered premises for two years free of charge, but that there are some marital problems here, because the state cannot accept such services free of charge; but regardless, we are considering this alternative option to open up in Qatar, given that they offer us free premises there, especially because there is a strong Slovenian community. I met with Slovenians operating in Qatar and in the Gulf alone. It is 50 Slovenians who are very successful, and the opening of such a representation would in particular make it very easy for them to do business. For the time being, all I can say is that the main obstacle to opening diplomatic and consular offices is limited financial resources. In doing so, let me point out that it is not just the Gulf, that there are also needs in Central Asia. We know that cooperation with Azerbaijan, Turkmenistan and some other countries in this area has been strengthened. Then South Korea, an extremely important country, especially from the point of view of Port Koper and then the market opening in Central Europe for South Korea. I also assess there that diplomatic-consular representation is urgently needed. In Africa, I have to say, we're covering only from Egypt. Here I must say that we are also counting on certain properties to be obtained from the property balance sheet of diplomatic facilities in the name of the former state. Iran appears, especially if an agreement on the nuclear programme is successfully concluded. Businesspeople are already warning that Iran has an exceptional potential. In this regard, I propose that the National Assembly help when we consider the budget for 2016 and 2017 in order to allocate some more resources for these purposes as well. However, it is important to know that in 2012 five diplomatic consular offices were closed due to the financial crisis and limited budgetary resources, but these savings have proved to be minimal [[sign for the end of the debate]] 500 000 euros on average per representation.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u90	Mr. Mag. Marko Pogačnik, you have the floor to request a reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u91	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Dear Foreign Minister, I believe you have scissors and linen in your hands. I am confident, given my political career and the political abilities you have to be able to abuse within the Government, to open an embassy in the Middle East or in the Gulf States. I personally believe that this cost, which would have been, would have been minimal compared to what would have opened up to the Slovenian economy. Today, somehow exports to and from Slovenia are slightly more than €45 million. That amount could have been 50 or more. Everyone writes about what potential opportunities open up to everyone. There is no government delegation so far in which, with respect to the Foreign Minister, you have not participated or visited these Gulf States. You were in Qatar, the United Arab Emirates, you were in Kuwait, you invite them here. Finally, you are also in the governance strategy of state-owned enterprises. Tourism is one of the strategic branches for Slovenia. How can we, if not with the embassy, strengthen these matters? Today it is the closest representation for the Gulf States in Egypt. How are we gonna get these tourists here? Medical tourism, health tourism, not to mention all the potentials. The Gulf states should not be present foreigners, the only thing they limit, insurance and banking. Dear Foreign Minister, I appeal to you to provide funds in the budget to open this embassy. Last but not least, you're probably responsible for that, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Does the Minister want to explain it further? Minister, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u93	I would like to thank you for this support, and I hope that these funds will be found to open one embassy in the Gulf as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u94	Thank you very much. The question will be raised by Comrade Miha Kordiš to the Minister of Culture of Mags. Juliani – I'm sorry. Miha Kordish will ask the Minister of Culture mag. Juliani Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u95	President, thank you very much for your word. Dear Madam Secretary! Our media landscape is currently being hit by a lot of tectonic movements. Apparently, property change was announced, some new media were being set up and the Slovenian media space was being filled. This, as before, raises a number of questions and these issues are mainly related to media owners and their management strategies. We know that there is a problem here, that they are very often at risk, pardon, that very often the existence of the media itself as jobs is threatened. In this regard, too, we have had very poor experience in the past with media acquisitions, whether it is some domestic owners or whether it is the involvement of speculative financial capital from other economic sectors. One such example is the Pivovarna Laško, which proved to be a very bad, irresponsible, very macho owner of Dela and Slovenian news. In another case, it has often been found that the owners were led either by destroying greed for money or by some purely partisan political interest. We even had an era of freemen who had some very clearly profiled political background, we had the case of the Journal, which was virtually abolished overnight by the Austrian company Styria Media Group, the last such example was the Evening when it was a politically motivated purchase with a completely untransparent financial structure. In the last two weeks, this landscape has rekindled. FMR Stojan Petrič, one of the best development suppliers of the European automotive industry, bought work for EUR 7.2 million, and Janez Janša announced a new media and political project, and Bojan Požar was in the middle of the four-and-four brands Dela Revij, sold by NKBM for EUR 4 million. Of course, there is a very logical concern that we face some old stories or that some old stories are repeated. Experts already point out that the financial structures of the force are questionable or politically motivated. If I'm equipped with this base, I go to my questions: What is your view of the fact that according to Media Transparency in Slovenia, two thirds of Slovenian media operate untransparently? How and when will you face the problem of non-transparent media? Are you planning any measures to improve the financial transparency of the operation of the media and the transparency of the financial backgrounds of their owners? Media law is also in play here. How do you plan to visit the media to restore dignity to the journalistic profession and to regulate the working and social situation of media workers who are after [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u96	Thank you very much. The word is from the Minister of Culture Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. Honourable Ambassador Miha Kordish. I also welcome everyone else here. Let me apologize to you first because I have to show you my back because the microphone is in front, but the answer to the question is important. Your Honor! Any lack of transparency in private-sector interventions, such as private companies and private individuals, in the field of public interest and the exercise of private interests at the expense of the public is undoubtedly worrying. The Ministry of Culture shall maintain a register of media in accordance with the Media Act, in which the required media data are kept, inter alia, information on responsible persons, sources and methods of financing, and data on persons with a minimum of 5 % ownership or management share or share of voting rights in the property of the issuer of the general informational printed journal and the weekly and radio and television programme. Given that data from the media report are accessible to the public via the Ministry's website, in our opinion we could not talk about the complete opacity of media operations. The survey of the media led by the Ministry of Culture is also publicly available. It should be borne in mind, however, that obstacles to the lack of transparency in the functioning of the private sphere are obstacles. It is not possible to achieve complete or necessary transparency, because all media, except Radiotelevision of Slovenia, in the legal form of a private company whose data are not fully publicly available under the Company Act. It would therefore be necessary to obtain data on companies to intervene in that law, which is not within the competence of the Ministry of Culture, or also to protect the data of private companies so far, or to protect the data on private property so far. As you may know, however, the opposite of socially supported property data is fully exposed. To a certain extent, transparency is also ensured in the case of ownership acquisitions or purchases of media, and I agree that there is little. The Ministry of Culture shall obtain, inter alia, relevant ownership data from a potential buyer and the Securities Market Agency under Article 58 of the Media Act. While this process has not proved to be the most effective in the past, this aspect will undoubtedly be examined in detail in the context of the preparation of comprehensive amendments to the Media Act. The area of journalistic autonomy will certainly also receive attention in the reformed media legislation, although we believe that this is already quite exemplaryly regulated as far as the legislation is concerned. The Media Act provides journalists or editors with a type of rights; from the right to an opinion in the appointment or discharge of the responsible editor, and from the fundamental modification or substantial addition of the programming design to the fact that the journalist must not give up the employment relationship or terminate the contract with him, to reduce his salary, to change his editorial status or otherwise to make his position worse by expressing opinions and opinions that are in line with the programming design and professional rules, criteria and standards. The Media Act also explicitly emphasises the principle of editorial independence or journalistic autonomy as it provides that the editors, editors, journalists and authors of other contributions under the programming design and in accordance with the fundamental legal act of the issuer are independent and independent in their work. In my view, policies should not, in the case of other countries, regulate the quality of media content, but could promote the quality of the media in a way that assesses and regulates the profession itself. With the work of the Journalist Honorary Court, which affects the improvement of the quality of the media, we can be partly satisfied, but of course the problem is that the editor allows bad work to be allowed to complain to the owner or the policy. In my opinion, there are also a lot of good and professional journalists among journalists. More in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Miha Kordish, you have the floor to request a complete response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u99	President, thank you very much for the floor and thank you very much to the Minister for her reply. I'm just gonna walk through the questions I asked again. I would like to hear a comment from the Minister, subjective, if not different, on her view of the fact that, according to Media Transparency, two-thirds of Slovenian media operate untransparently. In its reply, the Minister has touched on financial transparency, but given that the media have a huge impact on the Slovenian public opinion that they can even make policies, suspend and impose government presidents, I do not think that we should be satisfied with any response that there is no complete transparency in this area, but even less that we cannot be satisfied with the reply that the media are a private company acting on capitalist principles and that this is not within the competence of the Ministry of Culture, because it is still a matter of such important social factors that they need to be regulated, they should be affected, whether or not it is a matter of legal form of private society. In addition, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the legal situation can, however, be regulated and the autonomy of the journalist's work is legally ensured, but in a structural situation, when journalists or media workers are outlaws, when they are terribly dependent on their survival, on whether they will bow in an extremely short time to an article – first to eleven and second to one afternoon and third to three in the afternoon – that this situation is not structured and needs to be touched and ensured in fact, not only by normative autonomy. The third thing we are dealing with in ensuring both the working position and autonomy is the democratisation and policy of open books within media houses, which would also contribute significantly to financial transparency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u100	Thank you very much. The word is from the Minister of Culture Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u101	As I told you, more intervention is needed in order to open up information that is currently classified as public information. Of course, perfect transparency will then be possible. This, however, is also a matter of laws that are not entirely within our jurisdiction. You also talked about the poor working and social situation of journalists, which I agree with, is certainly a problem for the effective implementation of journalistic autonomy, which the Ministry of Culture or the National Assembly recognized in the Resolution on the National Programme for Culture. We believe that the improvement of the situation in this area and the implementation of the necessary measures would also urgently require the participation of other social policy providers, the participation of the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities and in the field of tax status of the Ministry of Finance. Unfortunately, the laxity of the work, which is also present among journalists, is not greatly affected by our ministry because of the general problem of our society. Precautions should therefore be addressed comprehensively through negotiations, within the framework of the Economic and Social Council, with which I believe that it is necessary to ensure decent working conditions for those on leave. As far as the Ministry of Culture is concerned, we are also addressing the issue of self-employed people in culture through our legislation. All of these, of course, require a comprehensive revision of the sectoral legislation. The adoption of the new Media Act is, as provided for in the Resolution on the National Programme for Culture, provided for after the adoption of the Strategy of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of media. This strategy will provide guidelines for the development of the media landscape in the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of an analysis of the existing situation by the end of 2015. In doing so, I would like to point out that it is right that some relatively small changes to the draft Media Law are currently in public debate by 22 June and that this debate will also, in some ways, be an indication of the company's possibilities for regulating the media space, following the example of democratic countries. I don't know if you know that in more than 10 years this media law has not been able to fix [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Miha Kordish, you have the floor to request that the next meeting discuss your response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u103	Thank you very much for saying that and again thank you very much to the Minister for supplementing her reply. Why do I suggest that it be held in the National Assembly, however, about the Minister's response? It is not because I would be dissatisfied with some of the information she has served with, but because I have not seen the rejection of what we have in the United Left in the area of the media to propose. I have not seen a negative attitude towards increasing financial transparency, nor have we heard anything receptive to democratisation or to improving the employment position of employees. However, we have heard that the Ministry of Culture is not entirely competent to regulate all these areas and that it needs the cooperation of all other departments. Given that the media are a huge factor affecting Slovenian public opinion, I certainly think it makes sense to hold a debate on these perspectives in the National Assembly. We know that there is a very high risk that the Slovenian media landscape will deteriorate significantly at this time in these tectonic movements in the field of the media field. Last but not least, Media Transparency warns that 2/3 of Slovenian media already operate intransparency. In short, we have matured for media reform in the direction of media democratisation, towards ensuring public interest, in the direction of ensuring the stable working position of employees, and the Minister seems interested in acting in this direction, why not support the National Assembly, hold a debate, and see where we are going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday 17 June 2015 in the framework of the votes. Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor to ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr Anji Kopač. Get ready, Mr. Mag. Ange Logar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u105	Thank you for your word, Madam President! Madam Minister, Minister, colleagues and fellow Members, of course, I particularly welcome the Minister, Mrs Anjo Kopač Dark, for whom I have a question. The Business in the Entrepreneurship Council project aims to promote entrepreneurship among young unemployed people with a higher and higher level of education and to promote job creation. The basic idea of the operation is to offer participants selected on public calls, professional assistance and the additional training they need in developing an entrepreneurial idea into a functioning company. In relation to this project, young people from the region of Koroška who were involved in the Operation Enterprise in the Entrepreneurship Council in 2013 and opened each of their espies after the project was completed, and they believe that they received unequal treatment compared to the group participants in the following year. Their opinion is also shared by project participants from other regions that have set up their companies. Despite the successful completion of the project and the self-employment of the project, they were not entitled to share the subsidy. While it is true that the contract of employment did not define the award, the participants did not know that they were not entitled to a subsidy for the opening of espionage by the Employment Office of the Republic of Slovenia which was granted until 2013 at the time of the company’s registration. During the implementation of the programme, participants are expected to receive even an official document issued by the Ministry and sent to the Employment Office, where it says there will be prizes. The amount to be calculated should be known for how many persons these awards will be awarded. Although it has been more than a year since the registration of their companies, they still hope for a just resolution of the situation and seek to survive. This award would enable them to operate more stablely and be able to realize their business ideas, because without start-up capital they are difficult to realize their vision. In this regard, I am addressing the following question to you as the competent minister: What were the circumstances or circumstances in which subsidies were granted to the Company's participants in the Entrepreneurship world? Do participants have any additional opportunity to obtain a subsidy to facilitate their business path? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u106	Thank you very much. The Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Dark has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u107	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Mr. Škodnik, thank you for asking. The 2013 Entrepreneurship Business Programme offered young people training for independent entrepreneurship. During the five-month training period, young people were employed by regional development agencies, where, with the help of both internal and external mentors, they developed their entrepreneurial idea, developed a business plan, acquired a wide variety of knowledge in the field of entrepreneurship. The cost of this training was EUR 12 000 784 per person. In addition to RRA training, other specific trainings were provided to young people. On average, these costs amounted to EUR 1000 927. So the total amount was EUR 14 000 711 per individual. The final objective of the Entrepreneurship 2013 programme was to train participants to engage in self-employment or employment. In parallel, in the framework of an active employment policy, the Self-Employment 2010 programme has been implemented, allowing for a subsidy of EUR 5 000 for self-employment. Those who received the subsidy were also entitled to five-day self-employment preparations, which was on average €43. During the implementation of the Entrepreneurship 2013 programme, some participants contacted the Employment Institute of the Republic of Slovenia with a view to gaining self-employment incentives under the Self-employment 2010 programme. In verifying the sense of including the participants in this programme Enterprise in the 2013 Entrepreneurship Council in Self-Employment 2010, we have concluded that participants are already receiving aid indirectly, which constitutes an incentive for a separate entrepreneurship route, and this would mean that the objective of the Entrepreneurship Programme has not been achieved. The cost intended for participants in the Entrepreneurship Council is also significantly higher than for the Self-employment 2010 programme. The granting of an additional incentive in the form of a subsidy would therefore constitute a double incentive for participants in the Enterprise Programme in the Entrepreneurship Council, which would discriminate against other unemployed persons who did not have the option of being included in the Enterprise Programme in the Entrepreneurship Council. Nevertheless, in 2013 we decided to amend the programme, which included a participant award, which within six months of the completion of the training would set up our own company or become self-employed entrepreneurs. At the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, which was then the managing authority responsible for the management of European funds, we submitted a proposal for the 2014 programme, which initially contained a prize for participants both in the 2013 programme and for the next year 2014. The Governing Body informed the Ministry that we are removing the 2013 Participants Award from the programme and that we have subsequently submitted an application for amendment. At our official request regarding the application for the amendment of the Enterprise Programme to the Entrepreneurship Council 2013, the managing authority replied to us with a letter stating that the classification of prizes among the eligible costs would result in a costly change in public invitations to include persons in the training that has already been undertaken and thus an unequal treatment. We had some correspondence, but given that we received the letter too slowly and therefore no change is possible, because there is no longer a period of eligible costs, no new measures can be implemented in this regard. The Ministry of Labour does not have funds for start-up capital, so we have sent participants to the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, which promotes entrepreneurship as part of its incentives. However, in conclusion, I would add that it has been invested from funds earmarked for those who have been involved in Entrepreneurship in the world of entrepreneurship, much more, if we compare with any of the other participants in the various active employment policy measures, and regardless of whether they have not obtained a subsidy or a reward, performance is relatively high and comparable to other forms, for example in self-employment, what are the outputs if we look at it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Škodnik, you have the floor to request a reply, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u109	Thank you for your words and, of course, also thank you for your reply, Madam Minister. But I would also like to touch on that document that I mentioned earlier that somehow these young people were promised, by the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. Ten. A letter was sent to the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Employment, mag. Zlatki Srdoč Majer, Director General, Pink Valley, Road Since this is a little longer, only the third paragraph, since it seems most important to me, would quote: "Although the beneficiary notes that after the completion of the five-month training, participants would be easier and faster to open the espa if they received the award for a successful completion of the training and opening of their own espa. Participants receive theoretical and practical knowledge during training, but financial resources are also needed to effectively open espionage. Therefore, at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, together with the beneficiary, we decided that, in the event of the successful completion of the programme and the opening of our own espionage within six months of the completion of the programme, we would award a prize of EUR 3 000 500." Here it is signed, also in the back is the printer, Damjana Koshir, CEO. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u110	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr. Anja Kopač Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u111	Thank you. I've already explained, and maybe I'll do it again, a little more. It was true that the assessment was that we would still try this award back in 2013 but we received, as I said, from the management body, which is the one who checks, if I say so, the means, the letter that this would not be possible, because it would go backwards and that this is in violation of the tendering conditions and the money that was awarded. Therefore, this amendment could not be implemented for 2013, irrespective of the wish expressed in the letter you read. Unfortunately, there is also no possibility of changes for the period 2013, because the financial perspective has ended. I believe that, if the additional resources were easier, but I also say that the funds allocated to these participants in the entrepreneurship world would have been significantly higher compared to other participants in comparable active employment policies. The Ministry was looking for ways to solve this problem for the participants in 2013, but it was not possible to find and positively resolve this in order for you to receive the award, regardless of what was written in the letter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Magg has the word. Ange Logar, who will question Foreign Minister Karl Viktor Erjavac. Get Mrs. Iva Dimic ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u113	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister! The European Union is a factor of peace in relations with the Russian Federation since the invasion and illegal annexation of Crimea to the Russian Federation in a very tense relationship. The European Union has repeatedly stressed the need to seek dialogue, after finding such arrangements that will allow both parties to reach an agreement on a common solution to the problem of military conflicts in the eastern part of Ukraine. To this end, individual Heads of Government of the European Union have actively engaged in the framework of the 'Normandian format' to reach an agreement from Minsk, thus laying some groundwork for the search for a peace solution that will bring a favourable solution to all sides in the long term. Then, in early June, the Finnish television YLE published information that the Russian Federation had adopted a secret act prohibiting 89 representatives of the Member States of the European Union from moving to Russian territory. [[…]] 17 countries or individuals from 17 Member States are on this list. It is a number of prominent representatives of both civil and political spheres. In this regard, German Foreign Minister Steinmeier said that such lists would not help in efforts to resolve the dangerous conflict, and he did not think it was particularly wise to make such a prohibition of access, and he announced that the foreign ministry had already requested further clarifications from Moscow. The official Brussels was also critical. He said that it was a measure that was completely arbitrary, unjustifiable and untransparent. Dutch Prime Minister Rutte said that his government rejects the Russian move and that the list is not based on international law, is not transparent and cannot be challenged in court. Many of the more visible representatives of the Member States of the European Union have presented the official position of the countries in this regard, and I am therefore interested in: What is the official position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and also of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia towards this list? Did the Ministry of Foreign Affairs require any further clarification in this regard on any official diplomatic path? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Mr Karl Viktor Erjavec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u115	Thank you very much for your question. In this regard, let me say that the Government has not dealt specifically with this problem. The reason is also that there are no Slovenian citizens on this list. That they requested further clarifications in particular from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of those countries where they have citizens on their list. Russia has adopted this measure as a countermeasure to the restrictive measures taken by the European Union at the time of the problems in Ukraine and also to the illegal accession of Crimea to the Russian Federation. At that time, you know that in addition to certain economic sanctions, the European Union has also adopted a list of persons of Russian citizens and also Ukrainian citizens who do not have the right to enter the European Union and whose assets are frozen. The Russian side has taken counter-measures, as you also know economic sanctions, such as import of agricultural crops, as well as the so-called list of 89 people. It is true, however, that this list was kept secret all the time and that it did not come to the public until the end of May on the basis of a request from the European Union. In particular, I would like to point out that, as regards the list of persons accepted by the European Union, these persons have a possibility to appeal before the European Court of Justice, while those on the list drawn up by the Russian Federation do not have this possibility. Nor is it clear on what criteria the Russian side adopted a list of these individuals on this list, and a major problem arose when some did not even know that they were on this list and arrived at the Russian Federation and were rejected. The last such case is a Member of the German Bundestag. It's about Ambassador Karl-Georg Wellmann. In this regard, I must say that we regret such lists. We believe that this is not a solution and that this will not help to build and restore trust between the EU and Russia. Here we find it extremely important to make as much progress as possible with regard to the implementation of the mine agreement – what you have already mentioned within the framework of the Normandy Group. As far as this list is concerned, of course we consider that it does not contribute to the regulation of relations, but it must be seen as a countermeasure by Moscow in view of the restrictive measures taken by the European Union. In this regard, I would like to say that the European Council will decide in a short time whether these restrictive measures continue. Two criteria will be important here: first, how a mine deal is implemented, and second, the situation on the ground. We will therefore wait and see what the European Council decides on these restrictive measures. So much for now, maybe.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Ange Logar, you have the floor to request a complete response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u117	Thank you, Madam President. The Minister said that there was no official position taken by the Government given that there was no Slovenian citizen on the list and that it was essentially a measure against restrictive measures. I would like to draw attention to the provision set out in the Coalition Treaty on Foreign Policy, which discusses the comprehensive integration of the EU dimension into the functioning of the Slovenian state. In a way, our overall internal market is becoming a matter of the content of the European Union. This is certainly a topic on the agenda of the European Union. That is true, I am convinced by the resolution of the European Parliament, which was also voted on by representatives of countries whose individuals are not on the list, and is no longer a strategic partner under the title of Russia. It was supported by almost 500 European Members and says: "It is a violation of international law and general standards and an obstacle to transparency. This behaviour is unproductive and damages already bad communication between the European Union and Russia." In fact, it is the way the Russian Federation has adopted this list — in a secret way, without notifying it — unlike the European Union, which has taken measures under a normal diplomatic procedure. Once again, the European Union's actions are a result of the intervention of the Russian Federation or the illegal annexation of Crimea. So once again, I ask: Will the Government adopt any official position in this regard or will the foreign ministry respond in any way on a regular diplomatic basis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Mr Karl Viktor Erjavec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u119	Thank you very much. In this regard, let me say that the official position of the Government is that we do not agree that the Crimea region was connected to the Russian Federation. Our view is that the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine must be defended, but we will not take specific decisions on the list of 89 people. Given that there is no Slovenian citizen, I also do not know why we would ask Moscow for any further clarifications. Those countries where their nationals are on the list demanded this. However, I think the key to the solution is the implementation of the mine agreement. In this regard, I do not intend to propose any specific decisions to the Government, because I believe that, in the framework of the general decisions adopted by the Government and in the view that our policy is in line with the policy of the European Union, this is a very specific matter where those countries concerned are dealt with in concrete terms. I do not see any particular reason why the Government should adopt a special decision on this list, particularly because the general conclusions also cover such a problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. You have the floor to request that your reply be discussed at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u121	Thank you. Just because it is in some way a content that touches on the fundamental values of the European Union, of which Slovenia is a member, and as the coalition contract predicts, the Government will integrate such value systems into its functioning. And especially because of the fact that the list of 89 individuals who were illegally listed without any notice is included in this blacklist, we also discussed this at the COSAC meeting last week in Riga. Let me mention that the resolution on this issue, which is specifically about this non-transparent procedure, is the inability of individuals to say in advance that this is an unacceptable process and that this is a matter that is detrimental to the Minsk 2 agreement, we have also discussed this at an interparliamentary meeting within the Presidency. I can say that this resolution was adopted unanimously by all, including Slovenian representatives – two from the opposition, two from the coalition. In this respect, I believe that, if we represent such views at international level and adopt and support such resolutions in order to have a broader debate, I propose that we do so at home; that we also make a statement at home in the same way as abroad, that there is a broader debate on this subject and that, on the basis of this, I do not know, the Government is authorised or announced that appropriate action is taken in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday 17 June 2015 in the framework of the votes. Mrs Iva Dimic will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Mrs Anji Kopač Dark. Get ready, ma'am. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u123	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister, other ministers, colleagues and colleagues! The normal order of custody in the Republic of Slovenia is outdated, which experts have been pointing out for many years. It has been promised on several occasions that this area will be regulated, with no changes to the family code or a specific law to regulate this area being proposed. The guardianship function is still voluntary and honorable, making it possible for fewer and fewer people to accept this task, resulting in an increase in the number of cases where a social work centre is required to carry out custody tasks. On the other hand, the tasks of the temporary guardian, in particular in the process of depriving a person of his or her business ability, are carried out by the Centre for Social Work, which constitutes a conflict of interest when the applicant of the Centre for Social Work is a significant infringement of the procedure – so is the case law. It is also questionable whether an expert at the social work centre is obliged to accept a function that is voluntary and honorable and is not explicitly mentioned in the employment contract. In addition, the institution of care for a particular case is used for all cases where someone is unable to regulate certain legal matters, including admission to the homes of the elderly and the like. The State of Custody was investigated in 2013 by the Social Protection Institute, from which it is possible to understand the situation in this area, which certainly requires early regulation. Since there have been no changes to this area so far, please state clearly: Within what time frame is a new regulation of this area to be comparable to those of the European Union? Because it's not right now. I'm curious, so I'm asking the secretary: Is the bill ready yet? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u124	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr. Anja Kopač Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u125	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mrs Iva Dimic thank you for the question, a nice greeting to all other present! According to the legislation in force, social work centres are obliged in some way to provide the person who needs protection in the form of guardianship in order to receive such protection. The Centre for Social Work must, as soon as it receives notice that someone needs custody or some other form of protection, introduce a procedure for placing him in custody or for setting up a guardian. At the same time, the Centre must immediately do everything necessary to protect its personality and its property rights and benefits. For the custody body, the Ombudsman’s main interests in deciding on custody matters were the interests of the guardian. Any decision to appoint a custodian for a particular case must be based on the actual situation found in each particular case, i.e. on the identified benefits of the person who calls him a custodian. We do not agree with the indications of a conflict of interest in the work of the Centre for Social Work. The task of the Centre for Social Work is to do everything necessary to protect the rights and benefits of the person in need of such assistance. In accordance with the applicable legislation, if possible and if this is not contrary to the interests of the guardian, his relative shall be appointed guardian. When appointing a custodian, the social work centre shall take into account the wishes of the guardian if it is able to express them and the wishes of their immediate relatives, if that is in the interest of the protector. In certain cases, the Centre for Social Work may decide to perform the guardian's duties on its own, with the guardian's guardian in this case being the centre for social work. A professional working at a social work centre merely performs the tasks of a guardian and is not designated as a guardian. However, in the event that the professional worker of the social work centre is appointed as a guardian, like all other guardians of the appointment, consent must be given. With regard to the payment of the work of the custodian, it is correct to state that the guardian’s duty is voluntary and honorable. However, the custodian has, in accordance with the applicable legislation, the right to reimbursement of the eligible costs incurred in the management of his custody duties and the centre of social work may also provide him with an appropriate award. The expenditure for the implementation of precautionary measures in the interest of the protector shall be borne by the guardian's income, by the means of the persons who are obliged to support them, by the protector's property and, lastly, by the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Let me remind you that in the Family Code adopted in June 2011, which was subsequently rejected by voters and voters at the referendum in March 2012, the area of guardianship was fully regulated. According to the Family Code, they had jurisdiction over custody of social work centres and courts. The Court would decide on custody cases in cases where they decide on measures for the protection and benefit of children and when placing an adult under custody. Therefore, persons who, because of their developmental or mental health problems or other reasons affecting the ability to judge themselves, without prejudice to themselves, are not able to take care of their rights and benefits, the court puts them under custody and appoints a custodian. The provisions of the Code were also consistent with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, whereby States Parties ensure that all measures to enforce legal capacity provide for appropriate and effective safeguards to prevent abuses in accordance with international human rights law. In the Family Code, the Institute for the Taking of Business Skills and the Extension of Parental Rights were abolished. As you stated, the Institute of Social Protection of the Republic of Slovenia also carried out an analysis of the Institute of Welfare during its regular tasks, comparing the arrangements between Sweden and Croatia. On the basis of the results, we estimate that the area of guardianship in the Family Code has been properly regulated, with some minor additions foreseen in future family legislation. The proposal for a family law is in the plan of the work plan this year, but we have not yet decided whether to prepare a new law or whether to amend the existing law on marriage and family relations. In any event, this year's target is, otherwise, in the coming months of the new year, we are aware that that set of measures for the protection of children to be regulated is necessary for the reconstruction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Ma'am mag. Jana Jenko will ask the Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celar, to prepare Mrs Jelka Godec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u127	Thank you so much for saying that. All of them have a lovely greeting, especially to the ministers present! In Slovenia there are already more than 32 thousand patients with dementia, and in total about 20 qualified doctors are in the public health network for the treatment of these patients. Slovenia is also one of the countries whose population is the fastest. In 15 years, Slovenia is expected to be 8th in the world by the number of people over 65 years of age. It is precisely because of the increase in the number of dementia patients that Slovenian health care and also social care must pay particular attention to this disease, because the disease affects not only the sick but also their relatives and loved ones. Dementia significantly deteriorates the individual’s ability to live alone and is therefore taken care of in homes for elderly and other forms of institutional and extra-institutional protection for dementia patients. This disease needs to be addressed in an integrated manner. Since we do not have geriatrics, medical treatment is left to psychiatrists and neurologists who are lacking in Slovenia, so we have a relatively low number of cases detected in very early stages of illness. In the Desus Group, we are aware that a working group of experts and representatives of non-governmental organisations has already been established under the auspices of the Ministry of Health, which participated in the development of guidelines for the preparation of a national plan or strategy on dementia and the guidelines were adopted in 2013. Madam Minister, I ask you: When can we expect this document in the National Assembly? According to our assessment, it is very important that the strategy be adopted before September, when we host the 25th International Conference in Slovenia, the theme of which will be dementia. We believe that as a host country, we should be exemplary to other countries and have already adopted basic guidelines to combat this disease. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister for Health, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u129	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I thank the honourable Members of the European Union, Yanko, for the question raised. Indeed, as you say, the Ministry of Health has established not only one but two working groups in the field of dementia. She finished her first work in 2012 and presented in her final report a picture of the situation in the field of dementia in Slovenia, at the same time noting the weaknesses and the lack of relevant data on the number of persons with dementia. It also drew attention to the economic aspect of the whole issue and at the same time proposed further steps. It also stressed in its final report the need to adopt a national plan for the control of dementia and other cognitive disorders. In this second working group, which is continuing the work of the first and is preparing a draft strategy for the control of dementia by 2020, the Ministry appointed experts from various fields, including family medicine experts, family medicine doctors, neurologists, social welfare officials as well as employees of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, and, last but not least, representatives of NGOs, including representatives of the Memorial as the Slovenian Dementia Assistance Association, which is most active in this field. The draft document was unfortunately due to objective circumstances. In fact, as you know, this ministry has been without a minister for nine months, and as a result of the changes of government, this draft document has somehow stalled. Therefore, at the end of 2014, after all the professional discussions on the issue of increasing the number of dementia patients due to ageing, then on early detection and interdisciplinary treatment of dementia patients and on many other issues, we actively approach this document, a strategic document in the final stage of design. With this document, we would like to stress the importance of early diagnosis, which is very important for the treatment of these patients, then equal access to treatment for all patients with dementia, awareness of patients and relatives, the area of education and professional planning for the treatment of these patients, and the need for interdisciplinary treatment of these patients, both by health and social services. I expect and demand all the energy for this document to be sent to a public debate in July, right before parliamentary holidays, and then after harmonising opinions into the parliamentary procedure. I believe and hope that this document will then be adopted as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Mrs Jelka Godec has the floor to ask the Minister of Health, Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc. Mr Jani Möderndorfer should be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u131	Thank you very much! Hello to the Minister! My question concerns the central health institution in Slovenia, namely the University Clinical Center Ljubljana. In fact, it is an important institution in the field of health, and somehow I feel that the problem of all health care in our country is reflected in its problems. My question relates essentially to the issue that is taking place in UKC Ljubljana. In fact, a few areas are open, they also appear in the media, as well as the Medical Chamber draws attention to certain matters. The first irregularity, or I'm going to say the topic that opens up, is the Neurological Clinic, the case of Radan. You have very strongly called for a withdrawal in essence of the management of the UKC and also of the Neurological Clinic. Since this has not happened, of course, you also, as I know from the media, invited the President of the UKC Council to begin the process of determining the responsibility of management. Then the problem of child cardiosurgery, where, in fact, professional supervision was carried out a year ago, but somehow we still have no conclusions or we are not familiar with them. Well, last but not least, human resources, spatial problems, lack of equipment in the intensive therapy department and today a very resounding health bribery affair, of course, mentions the UKC. Doctors, I won't name them, but it's also one of the hottest, if not the hottest. I would like to know what your actions are, or what you are, as minister or as ministry, which is – that is, the Republic of Slovenia is the founder of UKC Ljubljana. What are these powers or measures of yours that will help to get this central health institution in Slovenia somehow out of all the irregularities and problems it has? In any case, one of these is also likely to improve the situation of leaders in this institution, i.e. the Director-General of UKC. I want to know: What will your actions be in this area so that the health situation in this institution improves?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u133	Thank you for your questions, Your Honor! You have asked quite a few questions about past events and the situation, as you have found, in our largest hospital, which also deals with tertiary activity, this is UKC Ljubljana. Let me begin by answering the most pressing question, or by answering a question that has happened in the past, this is an event related to Dr. Radan. Let me tell you that, in accordance with the powers I have as Minister, I can introduce, and I did so without delay on 23 February of this year, an extraordinary administrative oversight. Let me say that professional supervision is in accordance with the law and powers of the Medical Chamber of Slovenia. This exceptional administrative oversight concerned a review of the legality of the work for the period from 1 December 2014 to 31 January 2015. This is for the period during which this unloving potassium incident occurred. This exceptional administrative supervision refers to the Clinical Department for Vascular Neurology and Intensive Neurological Therapy of the Neurological Clinic. In view of the change in the time component of the exercise of control and in view of the progress of the control activities so far, this is mainly for the review of the documentation for the Commission's conduct of the interview with Mr Radan, I have extended or signed the conclusion that emergency administrative supervision, 29 May this year, should be extended to the period from 1 February 2009 to 30. 6. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So we've extended extreme administrative control to the entire period when these unloving events are supposed to occur. So far, the UKC Special Administrative Oversight Commission has obtained extensive documentary documentation, conducted numerous interviews. Let me say that in addition to talking to Mr Radan, there have been 19 other interviews with the staff. The Commission also inspected the key areas of the Clinical Department for vascular neurology and intensive neurological therapy of the Neurological Clinic. In the coming days, supervisory actions will be completed and a record of these actions will be drawn up and sent to the UKC for comments. On the basis of any comments made by the UKC, the Commission will decide either to hold a coordination meeting or to report directly to the Commission on its findings after verification. This is expected to happen by the end of July of this year if there are no additional complications. However, in the event that irregularities arise from the report in question, I will issue a decision as Minister to remedy these irregularities and, if necessary, inform other competent authorities or organisations in Slovenia. In view of the fact that the responsibility for these events lies both with the management of the Neurological Clinic and with the management of the University Clinical Centre, on 21 May I called on both leaders to give up due to objective responsibility. Because, unfortunately, that didn't happen, I'm 26. 5. In writing, it called on the President of the Council of the UKC to initiate liability procedures within the framework of its competences.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u134	Mrs Jelka Godec, you have the floor to request a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u135	Thank you. It is true that I have highlighted more of these, in fact several areas concerning UKC Ljubljana. In fact, it seems to me that all of these end-to-ends are related to the UKC Ljubljana leadership, and you can identify or find out for yourself or even call for guidance only a month ago. It also happens that when the Ministry of Health calls or after the UKC reports have been delivered to the opinion, it is noted that there has not been an irregularity, their internal controls find that there has been no irregularity, even in the case of corruption, doctors have not harmed public health or even the hospital itself, that they are professionally so irreplaceable that they do not intend to replace them. I still want to know: Are you planning on taking a sharper lead? At least: Do you still support this guidance, given that your call was very resilient and very harsh, that they do not intend to give up? What will you do if, as I understand it, you notify certain authorities if there is an irregularity? What will your actions be if leadership insists on its chairs — may I say?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister for Health, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u137	Thanks for the extra question. As Minister, I have somehow exhausted what has to do with the leadership of the UKC because, as Minister, I do not have the authority to put up or, if you like, to suspend the leadership of the UKC. For this reason, the Council of the UKC is responsible, and I have also called in writing for the Council of the Institute to initiate, within its competences, procedures for determining the responsibility of management, namely subjective responsibility. These procedures are in the initial stage and I am convinced and I believe that the Council of the Institute will finally make the appropriate decision, in accordance with the findings. Or perhaps some more information about corruption or this event, writing in today’s newspaper. Let me mention that at the Ministry, in addition to the common public procurement of medicines, which is one of the instruments to systematically combat corruption, we have also approached the preparation of technical standards and criteria for the acquisition of equipment, as this is one of the most important elements so that corruption cannot be systematically incorporated. Why? This is because, if we have at the level of the country, what are the technical requirements and standards for individual equipment and instruments in health care, then it will be significantly more difficult or at least from a systemic point of view to make individual and individual arrangements, which and what equipment is procured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor to ask the Minister for Culture of Mrs Mag. Juliani Bizjak Mlakar. Let's get Mrs. Susana Pretty Chimenka ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister, from the very beginning of your mandate we have been monitoring that in your own way you have some difficulty communicating with the professional public, the interested public, the media, the municipalities and Members themselves and other ministries. You could say that in fact, after nine months of your ministry you have a kind of, you've already shown this, some kind of authoritarian or autocratic way of ruling and running the ministry. The last case is your new definition of Slovenian music, which has experienced so much argumented rejection that obviously only you believe in this definition. I must say, I was incredibly surprised when I watched the last show of Studio City and, above all, your relationship, an arrogant performance by two experts in this field, this is the radio host Andrej Karoli and Prof. Dr. Mark Milosavljevic, where both of you, in effect, snuck up with obscene insults. The public tribunal, which was organised in Val 202 last week, practically a few days ago, gave its address to everything; it is Laibach, Slovenians in London, a foreigner in Slovenia. Actually, there's nothing to add to that. But what is essential is to note that the problem most often is that with your arrival the budget at the Ministry itself is becoming less and less adequate; especially in the face of problems that arise, which are unresolved, from the Museum of Solarization to the Public Institute of the Center for the Management of the Heritage of Living Silver Idrija. Finally, it is a sort of problem and an alarm that arises, especially because you no longer have the right attitude towards the National Council for Culture, which is really a non-digare, and in the end with the Society of the Association, it is a non-governmental organization, where you have already let them know where they belong. What matters to us is that we see the last steps in the problem of the collapse of the Rakusheva mill. Indeed, it is the loss of an administrative dispute in court, which more than clearly indicates that we will have an even greater financial problem. That's why I'm asking you: What will you do to ensure that the voice of the profession in culture is heard in the public and that the Ministry of Culture, through dialogue with all stakeholders in culture, will be able to make quality decisions at both the substantive and legislative levels in the future? At this point, we are witnessing everything else from your side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Mrs Mag, Minister for Culture, has the floor. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u141	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Jani Möderndorfer, I thank you very much for your questions. I must tell you that your value assessment may be designed through the prism of your view or view of your advisors, which alone, which has an insight into a complete set of data, I cannot confirm. Notwithstanding the selective media treatment of a number of things that are understandable and expected in terms of media surveillance, I can assure you that exactly in the case of Slovenian music, in which I should stress that it does not define any new definition, as you say wrongly, I accept many expressions, oral and written, support from different public and individuals. Similarly, with regard to other provisions that are proposed — including those about which you spoke about when it comes to the Museum of Solinarry, which is under the authority of another department. At the same time, we are also solving the problem of the centres as regards Idria, because, as you probably know, during your Minister, it was proposed that the Ministry of Culture take over geological and mining business, which is not responsible and cannot take responsibility for properly managing mines. Similarly, as we say, with regard to the other provisions proposed. As it is said, we are not designing any new definition of Slovenian music, but a draft bill that is still the starting point for the drafting of the law in a public debate where it is proposed that 20% of the quota for Slovenian music be broadcast between 6 p.m. and 22 p.m. As you may know, there are currently numerous abuses of quota broadcasting at night. We want to stop these abuses. This does not eliminate the possibility of playing the remaining music, such as music in foreign languages, which can be broadcast during the daily broadcast time in the remaining 80% of the broadcast time, but outside the daily broadcast time, for example, on commercial radios as a whole. All of this, therefore, remains at the discretion of the music editor. The public debate, as it was said, takes up to 22. 6. 2015 and comments will, if possible, be taken into account, in particular in the direction of greater clarity and unequivocally recorded. Of course, with regard to the broadcast you're mentioning, I can't comment on your statement of silence in any other way than to state the facts. I was just a guest of the show, among three guests, and the host led the show according to his journalistic autonomy. All the arguments expressed in the public debate will be listened to, carefully examined, and prepared at the end of the public debate the text of a bill which will be forwarded for further consideration, contrary to some past practices. Your statement that the case of Rakushev's mill is due to the lack of cooperation of the Ministry with the local community and its representatives is least urgent. Your decision is certainly exaggerated because you are building an opinion on the cooperation of the Ministry with the municipalities on one point, not the most fortunate, namely on the Rakush mill, without stating how you represent this cooperation in this case. The Ministry has daily intense, good and regular contacts with the municipalities, including Celje, since I visited this congregation even after the congregation has already filed an administrative dispute. They are also good contacts of the Ministry with the professional public. With the interested public, the Ministry conducts regular dialogue, monitors the issue and responds to current problems, which is also reflected in the content of the draft laws. The union also has regular contacts with the Ministry. In view of the data on the problem of Rakusheva mill I have at my disposal, I can explain that in a particular case, the owner of the destroyed cultural monument triggered an administrative dispute because she did not agree with the cultural security agreement to investigate and remove the monument with which the Ministry of Culture established payment for the municipality. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Well, the fact is, in fact, your answers do not correspond to the universally known facts that I am now going to mention. But it is also true that when arguments run out, disqualification begins, and the saddest thing is that some always rely on their predecessors. So let's go to the facts, unlike you. The fact is, it's 27. 5. in the case of Rakušev mlin, it ruled in favour of the Municipality of Celje and annulled the decision of the Ministry of Culture on its removal and payment of compensation to the municipality of 1.7 million euros. 1.7 million euros – if this is anything special to you. But now let's see what the court actually decided. It decided that the Ministry did not define, throughout the management process, up to three documents submitted by the Municipality of Celje: not to the opinion of the construction court expert, not to the report of firefighters and not to the report on the state of fire of the exposed buildings of Rakušev mlin. The Court therefore notes, quote: "The Ministry has led the unwarranted case by means of a reduced finding procedure, but at the same time it did not take into account all the relevant documents submitted by the City Municipality of Celje..." which means otherwise: You did not ask the purpose or the city municipalities absolutely nothing, but you simply sent them an account of 1.7 million at the end of the procedure. What's most worrying about this process is not that I'm defending the City Hall of Celje, far away from it, but I'm interested: How will we put it, because you yourself have put into this procedure according to the marks that will, of course, also follow, under the question of the implementation of Article 31 of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, so sensitive so far, which has been very clear in practice? With a new practice of enforcement, you have questioned exactly this article. Madam Minister, I ask you not to look for the culprit in me, but rather to see where you have made a mistake. This, too, and this way shows, of course, the communication that I told you at the beginning.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u144	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u145	Thank you so much for saying that. In that case, which was brought back to us by the court for procedural reasons, so I will not comment on it in substance, it was necessary to act on the urgency of the matter, which was not due to any lack of interest in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice as soon as possible. In the reopened procedure, of course, the procedural instructions and guidelines of the court will certainly be followed in the re-assessment. By the way, should I interpret your arguments regarding Rakush's mill as a public demand that the Ministry withdraw from the proceedings against the congregation? With regard to Article 31 of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, of course, in this case your statements are without a serious basis, because the Administrative Court has not assessed the implementation of Article 31 of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, but has brought the matter back to the Ministry for procedural reasons. Thus, due to the lost administrative dispute in the Rakušev mill case, given the above-mentioned reasons for the decision of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia in the case in question concerning the possible compromised implementation of Article 31 of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage – we have also received a question from your political party – of course, to speak prematurely. With regard to the development of the area of culture, allow me to point out that a large part of the professional public would disagree with you as well. This is a halt to the upward trend in the decline of cultural budget resources over the past few years, which has stabilised, saved and provided a good prospect in many areas of culture for future measures towards the immediate protection of the weakest groups and the most vulnerable assets in culture. In these few months, since I took over the ministry, we have, among other things, resolved the difficult legacy of what we have just received, in addition to halting the skirmishing decline in cultural resources, we have also prevented a drastic reduction in the library's compensation to authors as a result of the measures carried out in the previous mandate. The latest developments in the public debates on the seven draft laws that we have already tabled in the public are encouraging me to believe that I am thinking in the right direction that we have identified some of the most urgent points in specific areas, and that the public debate is also vibrant and fruitful in the area of the draft amendment to the media law, I expect to improve the text of the legislative proposals for further consideration, which was also the purpose of this stage of public debate. [[sign for the end of the debate]] Thank you very much. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer, you have the floor to request that you hold a debate at the next meeting on your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u147	Thank you, Vice President. Exactly that, but what is more important is that if this is true, as the distinguished Minister says, then it is more than clear that she will agree that we can have a general discussion and see this professional support and, I will say, so civil society that will come and will give you honor and recognition for everything you have done so far. However, I suggest you set up a very honest conversation as soon as possible, not as a defence, but it is always welcome, especially for the governing structure, a moderate level of criticism, so that you do not fall asleep, and above all what is more important, that you do not make mistakes. Today I spoke mainly in the defense of Article 31. I've made this very clear to you. If you do not understand this, I tell you otherwise: in accordance with Article 264, I propose that we hold a general debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday 17 June 2015 in the framework of the votes. Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko has the floor to ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology Zdravek Počivalski and Minister for Knowledge of the matter, Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac. But get ready, Mr. Mag. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u149	Thank you for your words, Madam President, honourable Members, distinguished Minister! Slovenia is by size, one could say, a very small country, and that is why it is so much more important for our economy, that as a country we have very good relations with abroad, with foreign markets, and that we have done everything possible to enable them to cooperate as much as possible – in the economic field of course – both with regard to internationalisation and with regard to exports, as well as investment, and not least to promote tourism from targeted markets in Slovenia. However, in order to have better cooperation with foreign countries at all, I am thinking of countries outside the European Union, first of all, good political cooperation is needed. Establishment and signature of all necessary agreements, visa arrangements and so on. At times, diplomatic representation in the form of an embassy or the opening of an office abroad is also essential. For us, the area of internationalisation belongs to the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, while economic diplomacy belongs to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Therefore, with regard to this area, I ask both honourable ministers, and I really hope that the objectives and strategy in this area are united, coordinated by both ministries. You could say that internationalisation and economic diplomacy are somehow going hand in hand. So, Mr. Secretary, I ask: In what foreign markets or in specific countries do you see the greatest potential for increasing economic cooperation in the next five years, and why in these foreign markets? Here, in particular, I am referring to markets, as I have already mentioned, outside the European Union. What key did you choose these target markets by? What are your strategies to achieve these goals? What activities are you already carrying out to increase cooperation between these countries within your individual ministry? Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Mr Zdravko Restoršek, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u151	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! Member of Susana Beautiful Šimenka, thank you for asking. Slovenia has adopted the Programme for the Promotion of Internationalisation 2015-2020 and the International Challenges Implementation Plan 2015, 2016. 75% of Slovenia's economic growth is generated by the export economy, so our internationalisation programme is very important in this context. Target markets are foreign markets, which are divided into three groups in the International Challenges document, namely priority markets, traditional markets and perspective markets. The priority markets are the USA, Japan and Turkey. We have included markets that are very important on a global scale and Slovenian companies are not yet very present or even present there, but we estimate that we have a lot of reserves in these markets. Traditional markets, including markets where Slovenian companies are traditionally present and already operate there, and countries that are traditionally the largest investors in Slovenia. This is the circle around Slovenia, with Germany at the head. And perspective regions, China, Gulf states: Qatar, United Emirates, Saudi Arabia, Central Asia, Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan, Iran, India. In these regions we see an opportunity for the Slovenian economy in the future. According to individual groups on the market, specific activities are planned in 2015, 2016, we have a list of activities prepared for each country separately. In addition to the above, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology offers measures to companies on their international path, namely a call for individual fairs at international fairs abroad, a call for co-financing of business clubs abroad, a public call for group fairs of the Slovenian economy at international fairs abroad and a public call for training of companies to prepare an export plan, a call for co-financing of market research abroad. For comprehensive information, we also have on the websites of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology a programme to promote internationalisation, as I said, adopted by the Government for the period 2015-2020, and its action plan for the next two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u152	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac, Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u153	Thank you very much. I must say that economic diplomacy is one of the priorities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This has not been the case in the past, but I must say that it is here, as you have already rightly established, very important cooperation with the Ministry of Economy. In particular, I would like to mention Spirit here. Of course, we must also include the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Chamber of Commerce. That is why we have also set up a strategic council for economic diplomacy, where we are working together to coordinate how to help the Slovenian economy in order to make it as easy as possible to access new markets. It has also rightly been found that the condition for new economic relations must first be good political relations. In this context, different inter-State economic cooperation commissions are then taking place, indicating the projects and specific operations that they would like to carry out. In this context, I would like to say that this economic diplomacy is not just economic cooperation between countries. This is not only about exports and imports, but it is also about Slovenia having a unique geostrategic position, especially with Luka Koper, which means a natural door to Central Europe. Here you need to know that, in particular, the countries of Central Europe are extremely interested in modernising infrastructure. We know that rail freight needs modernisation. The next thing is investment. This is also about trying to attract foreign investors through economic diplomacy. I must say that the response of the economy is extremely positive to the work of economic diplomacy, but we see the need for the Slovenian economy to be organised even more. As we have a car cluster, an IT cluster, the Slovenian economy should also be organised in some other areas in order to enter foreign markets. I'd like to ask you another question.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mrs. Susana beautiful Šimenka, you have the floor to request a supplement to the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u155	Thank you for your word. I want to know: Have you taken into account the wishes of the economy when setting these target markets? What have so far been the success of economic diplomacy in the markets that have been exposed? And I'm curious, Mr. Foreign Minister: Do you agree with the key markets that have been exposed by the Minister of Economy? Was this document created in a coordinated manner or more in the Ministry of the Economy's domain? Do you intend to open an embassy in the future in these markets that have already been exposed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mr Karl Viktor Erjavec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u157	Thank you very much. I must say that the document of the International Challenges is also aligned with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but of course it is also consistent with other stakeholders. If I speak of my feelings as Minister of Foreign Affairs, I can say that we have neighbouring countries here where we make the most exports, namely Austria, Bavaria, Italy, Croatia and Hungary. With Austria we have about 4.5 billion, with Germany 8.5 billion, with Croatia about 2.6 billion, with Hungary 1.7 billion, with Italy 6 billion. I stress this because this is the first round where our economy is doing the most business. However, we need to know that there are still large reserves in this circle. Let me tell you a case. As I said, the trade exchange with Hungary was 1.7 billion last year. As an example, Slovakia and Hungary have 8 billion trades. I am sure that we have a reserve here, but of course we will have to modernise our railway as soon as possible, because this is a prerequisite for having multiple effects. As far as Italy is concerned, I can tell you very frankly that there are Slovenian companies in Milan and it will be difficult for you to meet a serious Slovenian company in Rome. That means there's something else we need to do here. I hope that Expo will give some positive synergy and that we will penetrate this space more. Then China. You know that last year the Vice-President of the Chinese Government in Slovenia was with a strong economic delegation and also with a strong government team. I think China is certainly an important strategic market. In particular, the Chinese are also interested in how to move their products to Central Europe and Europe in general through Slovenia. Then we have Turkey, where we still have reserves. We have about 450 million euros there. I am sure that we could have one, two or three billion euros with Turkey, but it is indeed a prerequisite for strengthening our consulate because there are visa problems. Here I must say that we will go to the system to outsort these services because there are agencies that do this on behalf of the State against payment and thus pay those who want a visa. So we still have a lot of work to do here with the Minister of Economy. And that we have economic growth [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Šircelj will ask the Minister of Finance Dr Dusan Maramor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u159	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister! One of the fundamental roles of the Ministry of Finance and also of the Minister of Finance is the collection of duties and the proper management of the tax policy in this regard. I come from the data of the Ministry of Finance, which are also recorded in the Tax Offices Act, which, for example, states that additional taxes were collected during the period 2008-2014, additional tax liabilities of EUR 1.5 million, while fines of EUR 3.3 million were imposed during this period. In short, once more fines, once more penalties than tax liabilities. It is likely that this is a disproportionate in terms of the level of the penalty, given the tax liability itself. In this connection, I ask you: What policy do you lead through all the rules governing this? This is regulated by the Tax Procedure Act, it is regulated by individual laws such as the Income Act, the Value Added Tax Act, the Financial Administration Act and so on. And there are enormous penalties in these laws. That's where the punishments are prescribed. For example, in the law governing the tax box, an individual who leaves the trade and does not have an account in the immediate vicinity of the business space, which is the decision of the tax inspector, shall be fined 400 euros, which is enormously high in terms of the tax offence itself. Is such tax fines not the cause of fear in the bones? It's basically a repressive tax policy, mainly because people are afraid. I could, and I think further, give you some of the penalties that are also prescribed in the amendments to the Tax Procedure Act – this law is on the websites of the Ministry of Finance – and with the increased powers of tax inspectors to use firearms, they can use dogs, they can use other coercive means, in accordance with the free thinking of the financial administration. My question about this is: Does the Ministry of Finance not have both the level of penalties and the power to overly repressive measures against taxpayers?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Dr. Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Dear Member of the Mags. Andrej Shircelj! The proposal for a new Law on the Tax Procedure, which is now under public scrutiny, does not raise fines for offences, but rather even reduces them, namely, fines for offences committed by tax collectors in electronic data processing. The amount of these fines shall be aligned with the amount of fines for offences committed under the proposal for a bill on tax clearance of accounts which is in the legislative procedure in the National Assembly. A penalty within a range may be imposed by the criminal authority in a rapid infringement procedure only if that authorisation is provided for in the law establishing the offence. The proposed amendment will therefore also determine the power to impose a fine within the range for this offence, an offence in electronic data processing, and thus, in the proposal to amend the sentence, it will be possible to impose a fine within a range for all offences set out in the Tax Procedure Act. However, the infringement body must take into account the general rules governing the imposition of sanctions when a fine is imposed in a particular procedure, which means that they must not be excessive. However, the proposal for the amendment of the Tax Procedure Law also proposes an extension of the limitation period of two to three years for particularly serious offences, subject to the terms of the Offences Act. Now I'm complementing what you said, but there's a good explanation for that. The proposal does not extend or enhance the powers of officials of the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, since the powers of officials are systematically regulated by the Financial Administration Act and are further regulated under this Law and Framework by means of sub-legislative acts, so that these powers are not increased by these amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Mr. Shircelj, please, please, request to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u163	Thank you very much. I'd really like to complete the answer here. I, the Honourable Minister, have listed a number of laws in which the offences are listed. One is also the Law on Tax Retails. Once again, the Tax Receipts Act, for example, sanctions a legal person with up to 50,000 euros if the account number for which the clearance process is carried out is drawn up in an unpredicted manner. We also have other laws that actually impose penalties of up to EUR 300,000, some laws of up to EUR million and a half. Here the financial administration has a free judgement and can lead to the fact that an entrepreneur or legal person cannot pay this tax and it kills them. I wouldn't just focus here on the Tax Procedure Act. Many laws regulate this, and this is also why the whole matter is untransparent. Moreover, the new tax procedure law also regulates that if a taxable person receives an unjustified return on income and is miscalculated by the financial administration, and this will be found later, he will have to pay interest for it. The Financial Administration will miscalculate the return on income, the taxpayer should verify it after all the axioms, after all the formulas that the tax administration checks, and if it does not do so, it will pay late interest. I think these things are going the wrong way, Mr. Secretary, even at the tax offices. To penalise consumers with up to 400 euros because they do not have an account is an excessive and disproportionate tax measure.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Answer, Dr. Dushan Marble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u165	Thank you very much. The purpose of the Tax Procedure Act is to simplify tax procedures for taxpayers and make them more friendly. This is one part of that package that we want to do with removing administrative barriers. There are some changes that you are alerting to. The law is in public debate. In the public debate, comments can be made and these comments will be examined. However, once again, I would like to point out that when a criminal body makes a fine in a particular procedure, it must comply with the general rules on the establishment of sanctions which must be proportionate. The penalty must be proportionate to the specific offence which has been committed. However, when it refers to the law already in the parliamentary procedure on tax clearance of accounts and the fine relating to that law, if you do not have an account, we are nothing special here. In Italy, they have a financial police to see if you come out of the pizza shop — I was stopped when I got out of the pizza shop, whether I had an account or not. I threw him away and paid a very high fee, I don't remember exactly the amount. What is it, exactly? It is simply that buyers often also cooperate with sellers and do not require an account to be given a discount by sellers. Thus, in this case, it is not only sellers or service providers who avoid taxes but also those who receive or receive such services. Thus, such a fine is perfectly normal, it is also used and disstimulated abroad both by the buyer and by the seller in order to avoid taxes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Mag. Dusan Verbic will ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Petr Gasperšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u167	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Minister, Members and Members of Parliament, what a lovely greeting! Savings measures and the 2015 budget do not provide sufficient resources for maintenance and investment activities on state roads. The poor condition of roads, primarily due to the increased risk of injury and accidents, affects the health and life of people, but we must not ignore an important fact that affects the economy and, lastly, longer driving times. The maintenance of the road network prolongs the life of the road infrastructure and is economically justified, as such maintenance costs are lower than so-called investments. The longer the maintenance delays, the faster the costs increase, and the higher the funding is required. Not only is it cheaper, even for road users is less disturbing and significantly safer if we regularly maintain the road well. Any delay in regular maintenance or even complete interruption of maintenance means that a disproportionately higher cost will have to be deducted in order to restore the same road. Regarding Dr. Petr Gasperšić, Minister of Infrastructure, I ask: What are the plans for the maintenance of the Ljubljana-Kranj regional road or more specifically the crossing at Medvod? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Gasperšič will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u169	Thank you, President, for your word. Nice hello to you all! To the honourable Member of the Magi. I answer to Dushan Verbich as follows. With your assessment of the reasons for the poor state of road infrastructure and also the consequences, I can only agree with that. Indeed, the state of state road infrastructure has deteriorated markedly in recent years due to underinvestment. Economic operators also suffer the consequences of such behaviour in addition to the population. If the trend of modest maintenance of state road infrastructure continues, the state of the main and regional roads will be totally unacceptable in 2020. The projection shows that almost 85% of all vehicles will be in poor or very poor condition, which certainly means additional major problems both in the mobility of the population and in the functioning of economic operators for which road infrastructure is a prerequisite for some normal operation. In addition, the situation of bridge facilities already in place at 20 locations should be highlighted in order to require different restrictions, in particular freight transport. For those reasons, there is a need to ensure continuous and sufficient investment maintenance of road and rail infrastructure, and I therefore advocate the creation of a specific infrastructure fund that will provide a stable source of resources over the coming years. The scope of the funds will have to be such that investment investments in existing networks can be planned with an intensity greater than that of the collapse of this infrastructure. We estimate that investment maintenance for state roads at the annual level would require about 200 million euros and another 150 million euros for rail infrastructure. With such a volume of resources, we estimate that over the next five to six years, the current state of road infrastructure, estimated to be poor in 70% of the vehicles, would have reduced to about 50% of the vehicles or would have reduced the situation of poor roads to 50%. As for the Medna Bridge and the pass just ahead of it in the direction of Medvod, I can tell you that the project documentation has been developed. A call for tender for the complete reconstruction of both bridge facilities is also being prepared. At the time of reconstruction, two-way transport is envisaged at both bridge facilities. There is a new call for proposals as additional resources are provided for a comprehensive reconstruction. An invitation to tender for this comprehensive renewal will be published immediately after the legal capacity of the decision to suspend the invitation to tender for the installation of the temporary assembly bridge. Indeed, we know that there have been several complaints on this call, and given that additional funds are now being provided, we will stop this call and move on to the call for a full reconstruction of these facilities. So much for a little bit about that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Breznik will ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u171	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister, respectable colleagues and colleagues! Those of you who have been here for more than one term, you know that I am also trying to present my questions in the system of functioning of the economic systems of the most developed countries. I point out several times to those fundamental problems why we are not competitive as a country. Not just because of bureaucratic obstacles, because of the non-stimulating tax environment. In particular, it is a partially flawed policy of the school, educational system, particularly in the context of the so-called secondary education programme, in particular in the context of vocational education. I would like to say that, recently, Mr Wolfram von Ohain, Director-General of the German BSH Group, who was one of the initiators, asked the Government of the Republic of Slovenia a question and initiative to immediately introduce the so-called dual school system, which Germany had just somehow raised from the severe economic crisis a few years ago. I can also say that reforms in vocational education are necessary, it was also noted in a survey that was later carried out by the German Chamber of Economics among German employers in Slovenia. With the current system of vocational education in Slovenia, 41% of the surveyed German companies operating in the Republic of Slovenia are dissatisfied or very dissatisfied. In doing so, it would be appropriate to listen to the proposal following the introduction of the dual system, which they have specifically specified. This means that young people carry out practical education in companies in the course of vocational education. These are mainly three-year programmes with which the company is provided with a properly trained staff, which makes Germany, even if it is very expensive, competitive in the world. Since 2010, real wages in this country have increased by 1.7% last year. While the average gross wage in Slovenia is EUR 569 000, the average gross wage in Germany is currently EUR 3 000 541. The Germans also successfully promote their dual system of vocational education by offering practice to students from other countries, including Slovenia. The European Commission, together with interested companies, can finance the implementation of the Leonardo da Vinci Mobility Project and so on. My question is: When will you introduce reforms in vocational education? What will the next fall be like signing into a high school program? What percentage of admission to vocational education and any dual school system should it be introduced in the context of a reform? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Minister Maja Makovec Brenčič will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u173	Thank you very much, Madam President. In Slovenia we already have experience with the dual system, from the early 1980s, after we have included this part in the Law on targeted education, and after that with the amendment of the law on vocational education, we have even abolished apprenticeship, that is, in 2006. As the initiative of the Federal Republic of Germany on the dual system and in particular the experience gained from this in terms of youth employability, as you know, we have already joined this initiative in 2013 with a view to rethinking and examining how apprenticeship can be introduced. The dual system can have different concepts, but it makes sense that in the spirit of your question in Slovenia we not only consider but also implement this apprenticeship in the modern sense of the concept, which ensures and, on the other hand, promotes the employability of young people. The introduction of apprenticeship means, on the basis of a changed attitude towards vocational education, what you have also pointed out in your question. A fundamental responsibility changes. In fact, the responsibility for the apprentice himself is transferred from school to the employer. It is therefore very important for us to be able, within the entire of Slovenia and in the spirit of vocational education and cooperation with employers, to find an appropriate dialogue, how to then create all these responsibilities, and to distribute them properly and ensure successful professional implementation within the apprenticeship system. Let me explain where we are with these initiatives and where the activities of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport are. We're in the process of preparing the Alliance's draft apprenticeship. It defines: key objectives for the introduction of apprenticeships; models, this is how to acquire education, completion and specialisation; target groups, both youth and adults; programme areas, in particular focus on rare professions, selected areas in relation to the interests of employers; status issues, already mentioned apprentice status or employee status according to the status of the student; and which are all those activities that are necessary for such a system to be successfully implemented. Here we have in mind both the basis of the Ministry and between employers and other stakeholders, including trade unions and other executive organisations. The position of professional coordination was adopted to set up a working group which also drew up a draft text. The text is already being prepared. In fact, work materials have already been prepared for the so-called starting points for the preparation of educational programmes in secondary education and the starting point for the preparation of higher education curricula. She named this task force before my predecessor. The two starting points adopted by the Professional and Professional Education Council of the Republic of Slovenia will define all these elements of the programme basis for the implementation of vocational and professional education in the apprenticeship model. What's been going on in the last month? With the encouragement that for the next school year, as you have already mentioned, however, the first pilot attempts to introduce apprenticeships were the following. Last week, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia organised a consultation on apprenticeships with international participation, where you also heard representatives of Germany and also other countries that carried out some form of vocational or secondary training. The Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia also holds discussions on apprenticeship. That's what they were talking about in the last forum in Bled. It is important that we now establish a comprehensive dialogue among all the employers' organisations and that we continue to coordinate, including inter-sectoral. Indeed, this concept of apprenticeship must include not only our department, but also the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance. We have also proposed the establishment of an inter-ministerial working group to draft a law on apprenticeships. Just to finish the sentence and catch those seconds. By autumn, a public call for funding for the introduction of apprenticeships is already planned to focus first on rare professions, then on completion programmes, and to start thinking and creating this basis by agreeing on an individual learning contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Breznik, request to complete your response, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u175	Thank you very much. You were primarily talking about showing up some contraptions of something. First thing I have to mention. Since I've been monitoring the dual school system we've had, I can tell you the answers of the best employers. The first story was that in professions such as construction and construction professions, they put apprentices into school, into practice in the middle of winter, when there was no season. We'd like to show them when they didn't have a job. It was a number of institutions that raised employers with the timings. Another matter of importance. You talked about the responsibility of transferring responsibility from an institution, a school system to employers. What responsibility did those today have for having 20 thousand young people who are structurally unemployed? What responsibility does someone have to know that we cannot hire 500 philosophers, 3,000 economists, and continue to finance such an education system? I believe that we cannot weigh all education across the market, beyond what the economy needs, to need certain professional groups that are important for the development of the country, culture and everything else. But look, we're clear. We therefore have a number of people employed in public administration because the economy has not been able to employ them for 20 years, Madam Minister. We have a whole bunch of people in state-owned companies. The case is now with Telekom. This is the biggest problem you feel in the government because we have artificial jobs. All of this because we did not introduce this system decades ago or more. The results show that it is true, the results show that those who go to school or into a dual school system can continue to go to university and to a doctorate in Germany as part of lifelong learning. We've got a whole bunch of good cases. Just German companies, for example in the automotive industry – currently Audi has announced 25 billion investment in development. This is also information for our development suppliers in this chain. If we don't have the personnel, we're going to be lagged, we're going to be behind export, and they're going to be looking for suppliers outside. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Minister Maja Makovec Brenčič will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u177	Thank you for all your reflections. We certainly have a number of structural differences, but these are not only related to the system, the comprehensive vertical of education, but also to structural hunting, as we call it, the development of the economy and the individual segments in it. We are fully aware, however, that we cannot change concepts in the education system overnight. This means that we need some time to put in place a new model, a new approach that we are introducing. Therefore, it seems reasonable that when we talk about vocational and secondary education, including the school network, we should really think carefully about what are the professions and the structural education we need in order to respond to your questions as quickly as possible and as quickly as possible. But we need some time. Anyone who is either an apprentice or a student must do the whole program. The programme cannot take place in a short period of time, but it is a longer learning period, and it can therefore be delayed to respond to current economic conditions. It is therefore necessary to introduce a model of apprenticeship and other forms of practical training in this structural reflection in a way that is as close as possible to the actual needs of the economy. However, at this point certain needs of the economy are met. The question is what will be the question in five, ten years from now, and in this regard we must look at the whole of education or education and try to structurally adapt these programmes, while on the other hand we are already looking for frameworks for the future. It is therefore important that students have some basic knowledge in vocational and secondary education, while adapting to learning environments, if possible, in flexible learning environments, to be able to respond more quickly to the labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Here you are, Mr. Franz Breznik, a request for a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u179	Yes, Mr Vice-President, I thank you already for your suggestion. I would like to extend this debate. In this debate, if it were voted on by colleagues, I could also present a whole series of projects where this works. That's the whole kind of need. We have prepared a new law in the Slovenian Democratic Party, and we are putting a new law on the table for the second time. I must admit that those who have looked at this draft are surprised that we have captured all that we have had conversations with the great players in the market who need these things. Finally, without being the largest customer, we have a whole range of experts from this area in the professional councils. I would like to have a debate, I would like to have a real dialogue, including a criticism, perhaps to correct something else at this stage if the law comes into the procedure, because I think this is absolutely necessary. Waiting for a market response – see, with the school system in Slovenia we are deaf to market responses. I said earlier that I understand that some of the needs are beyond economic considerations or some of the current directions that are indicated are also needs, but we have completely missed. The biggest problem with all the other staff currently produced not only secondary education, but also higher education, is that these people who are structurally unemployed in Slovenia and are not employed, nor in Europe can any of them be employed. The whole range of the best masters that have yet to be put on the market by secondary vocational education is today employed somewhere in Austria, Germany, tools, I don't know where, all over the world. The personnel we're putting here right now can't go anywhere. Not to mention that some who go through masters and PhDs continue to lack the quality and quality of their language. That's a big problem. The problem is that the market is looking for knowledge, the market is not looking for certificates and diplomas. And we missed it here. Of course, this is not your fault – I do not criticize you, Madam Minister, I believe you are trying – this is the wrong policy of this country, from independence or from independence. I myself have been in that targeted education, and I must admit there have been great problems. We had no practice, we were ready for further study. We weren't a dick or a mouse, we could say that. I would like to have this public debate, so I propose, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that a thorough debate be held in order to broaden the questions and then some answers to how to proceed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Mr Breznik, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 17 June, in the framework of the votes. Dr. Franc Trček will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology Dr. Zdravko Počvalšku.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u181	Thank you for your word, chairman. Honourable Minister, Honourable Second Minister, Honourable Minister, Honorable Assembly! At its 29th regular meeting on 2 April, the Government issued a Regulation amending the Regulation on the establishment of borderline problem areas on the basis of the Law on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development, which provides for this in Articles 22 and 24. With the so-called Pomur law and these 85 municipalities, if I counted them correctly, we have three more developmental problems of areas in Slovenia – otherwise this overlaps in part – Poklopje, Zasavje and Maribor with the surrounding area. The territorial view is more than half of Slovenia. Lately, we have been talking a lot about tourism – even Mr. Prime Minister said today that Tourism I support – as a sector that is supposed to turn these development cycles in a positive direction. That's why I'm asking the minister and the government: What are you doing, in cooperation with regional and local stakeholders in these developmentally disadvantaged areas, in the area of tourism development as a sector, I hope, within the future smart specialisation strategy? That's what I'm asking because you feel like you're not doing much. I live in Maribor. I drive to Pohorje. The hotels are closed. Thenkin's you. Today the Prime Minister himself says the decision of the bad bank to take over the hotels has surprised everyone. If I touch it a little wider. I am Belokranjec, I am talking to the mayors and mayor of the White Landscape a little bit more about the economy, and they explain to me, say, how they have problems at the border crossing in Vinica because Croats are running over trucks up to 30 tons of carrying capacity. We've got 3.5 tons once, it's 7.5 tons another time. And I could keep going. As I come from Maribor, we have a ruling by the previous government, Alenka Bratušek, for 60 million and a few million that was not cancelled. Some small money came to Maribor, including tourism. We could debate whether it was disputed or not, why it was given. I also want to know: What's going to happen to these funds? Will Maribor see them or will they be dedicated to Maribor’s tourism? Sir, I know you come from tourism, you know the industry well, and you've fallen into some sort of state of emergency. I hope your answer convinces me. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister Zdravko Restoršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u183	Dear President, Mr Trček, Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you for asking. In Slovenia we have four problem areas with high unemployment. For each of these areas, a competition promotion programme has been developed which has been developed in cooperation with local, regional and government stakeholders. Each area also has its own priorities as reflected in the programme. Tourism has certainly an important role to play, explicitly stated in the Cholepian Competitiveness Promotion Programme. All public calls for the promotion of initial investment by companies and the creation of new jobs in Pocolp are divided into two parts: the first part is intended for tourism and the other part for other sectors. One million and a half million of the funds for tourism were allocated in this year's call. The call is closed; four tourism projects have been selected to create 10 new jobs and 34 new beds. These are four projects, supported by the adventure park Osilnica, the holiday house GAMS, the establishment of a tourist resort – Grad Vinica and the tourist recreation park Camp Podemelj. In other areas of concern, tourism-related projects have come to the fore. Tourism is also the priority of all Slovenian regions in the next financial perspective, which is also evident in the adoption of the regional development programmes adopted by 14 and in all of these 14 tourism is an important participant. Our ministry will give tourism an even greater weight to deal with in border areas of concern in the coming period. That is why we have foreseen two groups of measures, namely, the A specific quota of resources for border areas in the implementation of measures: promotion of the creation and operation of enterprises, with particular emphasis on start-up companies; support for research and development projects in enterprises; promotion of investment investments in SMEs; promotion of modern forms of support services for businesses; and support services for entrepreneurship. Under B, more favourable conditions and criteria for projects from border areas of concern in the implementation of measures consisting of five measures: support for the export potential of Slovenian companies; support for improving the quality of processes, linking businesses, introducing and/or developing new business models, supporting demos or pilot projects; participation of companies at international fairs; promotion of foreign direct investment; and support services for international enterprise growth. In the new perspective, we have to promote the internationalisation of enterprises, the development of new products and services in tourism combined with 88 million within 526 in support of small and medium-sized enterprises, where we have decided that all four problems in the areas, including the Pocolpija, will be adequately supported in this area and also within the smart specialisation strategy, because today an important event has taken place in this context, so that we can say that the cube has fallen, that we have started using a new financial perspective. Within three main activities, under 1 healthy working environment, below 2 natural and traditional resources for the future and under 3 industries 4.0, and 10 domains of the scope of tourism fall under 2. We believe that tourism in troubled areas, including the Poppies, will also be given the right weight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Dr. Franz Duck, please, supplement your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u185	Thank you. Sounds promising, with a little bit of pennies. We'll see what it's like. You mentioned an international fair. Complementing the question – I will quote: "The Slovenian pavilion is among the worst; the content is completely inappropriate, made amateurally, without knowledge and awareness that at a world event with hundreds of thousands of visitors per day the country with its rich cultural and natural heritage and its corresponding content." Then are the reasons for what is bad, how could it be, and the conclusion: "Everything leaves an impression as if we had barely walked and we have not even reached the kindergarten! Dilettism, that's a stroke!" Marian Zląbet, Milano, Expo. I'm the one who warned you about Expo. You were kind of caught up here, only 16 companies signed up. The building looks very beautiful, but it has to be filled with content. A similar story is with our Maribor. It's going to fly for a while, but if we don't have the contents, someone would say why people would go to Maribor. We do have a lot of nice in Maribor, but a little more emphasis on that. I know I should not be adding to the question, but I would still like to hear the answer to a question that I have already asked in the question of the House: What will we do with Expo and in connection with the government commitment of Alenka Bratušek development assistance to Maribor? You've cleared the cemeteries, my homestead, my current homestead. I'm also curious: What about the development of tourism in Maribor, with connection to aviation and the fact that we currently have a very strange situation with closed hotels with unclear ownership? You yourself have worked in tourism and you know what it means to have the infrastructure shut down for six months. I really don't take it with me if I quote you, but I want to know: How will you, together with stakeholders at local level and with the intertwining of ministries, resolve this mess to start the tourist season in Maribor? After all, we had to almost get a doctorate to fill the pool with water. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Zdravko Restoršek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u187	Expo first. Expo is a positive story, it's a good story. We have one of the nicer pavilions, we have content in terms of equipment and we have content in terms of software, because our economy is working intensively and well together. Anyone who has five minutes of time has the right to make an Expa assessment, but I comment on the Expo after two visits, comment after weekly visits and after the responses of the Slovenian economy that is involved. Of course, we cannot, instead of those who are not successful themselves, look for business partners there, but the country in a good, encouraging environment allows all those who have an interest, under maximum favourable conditions, to search for their business partners, so that they can represent their products. Expo is a real opportunity with 20 million visitors planned, of which 14 million Italians, 6 million foreigners, and I believe that our economy is making good use of it at this point and that by the end of October, when Expo ends, this story will only be upgraded. I have a completely different rating from the one you quoted. However, everyone has the right to critically assess what is happening there and to have an opinion. Tourism is an important economic sector. In tourism, we have this advantage that we have a large part of the infrastructure built, and we must take an important step towards promoting the country abroad, so that we can develop growth and development of all parts of Slovenia that are active in the tourism field. But that's only possible in foreign markets. At home, we can only live and live. Tourism without internationalisation in terms of ownership and in terms of foreign guests will not experience the development we all want together. On the inside, however, it is crucial that we invest more in the promotion, and the basis is the Slovenian national tourism organisation, which will continue to receive systemic funding resources, in order to take a major step forward towards changing our image abroad, which will affect the fact that we will have more foreign guests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Here you go, Dr. Runcho.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u189	Thank you for your word. I will use the Rules of Procedure and make a request for a general debate. After all, it is an area that we glean a little at each meeting and a little on certain committees. It seems to me that it is high time for us to give it a more thematic focus, even in the context of what has been said earlier about so-called economic diplomacy. I think there's an important aspect here, too. With regard to criticism or non-criticism, this criticism is quite harsh, and I can honestly say that I went to verify the credibility of this source, and they told me that the gentleman usually, if I put it that way, does not impose. I can understand if I were in your position, but I'm always in the worst of criticisms, even when someone sends me somewhere, I'm trying to pull something positive. Somehow there was no answer regarding Maribor tourism. We're probably gonna have to call a special session on this. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u190	Dr. Franz Trcek, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday, 17 June. Thank you very much. Mr Danilo Anton Ranc will ask the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen. Since the Minister is absent, please also identify yourself until the way in which the answer is made. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u191	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Greetings to all ministers and ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! Since the Minister is not here today, I would like an oral answer to my question at the next meeting. I will talk about the Eco Fund as an institution that has a function, about a green country in Slovenia, which is supposed to support it in some way, but I do not think that it plays this role and does not support environmentally friendly technologies. Of course, the government's guidelines on how Slovenia should become environmentally friendly are to be based on a low-carbon society, but I find that this is not the case. In this regard, the honourable Minister would ask the following questions: When will you finally stop co-financing renewable energy sources from the so-called Chinese photovoltaic panels we import? We support jobs in China, and we are moving our country along with these products, which will soon become major environmental polluters when they need to be removed. The second question concerns the issue of wood burning as wood biomass. I think that wood biomass is an insult to wood raw materials that can be used in the wood industry and that by subsidising the burning of wood biomass, in particular one that is useful for wood production, we produce additional emissions of fine particles that are even carcinogenic. I think this should be stopped sooner or later. I repeat the question: When will you abolish these subsidies so that Slovenia will not have a call in the sense that it is the country of the largest smokers in the European Union? The following question is related to this other: When will you start subsidizing wood products as a natural renewable resource? We know that wood binds CO2 and thus best contributes to reducing emissions. I'm also asking: When will you stop financing large infrastructure projects through the Eco Fund? When will you use these funds to subsidize the wood industry and thus gain jobs based on our natural resource — wood? I thank the Minister for her answers to the next meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert will ask the Minister of Public Administration Boris Koprivnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u193	President, thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Koprivnikar! Speaking of local self-government, we're talking about a constitutional category. It is considered that local self-government is also an important part of parliamentary democracy. This category also includes the provinces, which we still do not have in Slovenia. Decentralisation is a guarantee of political and economic stability. Decentralisation is also a solution for a more equitable development of all parts of Slovenia. In fact, in this area, Slovenian data are alarming. As large developmental differences between parts of Slovenia as they are today are unacceptable. The provinces must therefore live as soon as possible and begin to carry out local affairs of wider importance and by law of specific regional importance matters as provided for in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In your coalition contract, you wrote that Slovenia needs a strategy for the further development of local self-government, which will also respond to questions about the establishment of the provinces. I read in the journal of the Association of Slovenian Communities that the strategy is in preparation. That was a conversation with you. Your answer to a specific question about the establishment of the landscapes was quite misplaced, and also somehow a medal. That's why I'm asking you today: How far are you at the Ministry you run with the introduction of the provinces? When can the provinces really be expected in Slovenia? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Mr Boris Koprivnikar, Minister of Public Administration, will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u195	Dear Members, colleagues and colleagues! Dear Member, thank you for asking! In the beginning, let me disappoint you that at the Ministry we are not in some stage of establishing the provinces this moment. However, we are at a stage when, as we have also written in the coalition contract, we are preparing a strategy for the development of local self-government, which, as I absolutely agree with you, is a fundamental part of this country's regime and also a constitutional category, which we absolutely respect. I also think that we have repeatedly proved that this is an untouchable part of how we treat the congregations and solve this problem. It is, however, that the province's constitution is defined as part of the political regime of the country, but it has not yet been realized in all its years of independence, even though it is one of the key elements of the distribution of power. Therefore, in the strategy for the development of local self-government, we have also addressed the element of the establishment of landscapes in what form, how and in what way. We note that the constitutional regime, as was the case with those first attempts and until the last successful change, was based on the fact that the provinces are established in agreement between the municipalities and the country, which could significantly increase the inequality between the individual regions mentioned, because they could be created for certain areas of Slovenia, but not for certain areas of Slovenia. In fact, the amendment to the Constitution was adopted in 2006 and defined the provinces as political entities. In our strategy for the development of local self-government, we ask ourselves about the possibilities, particularly what is the effective distribution of power. If you're saying that my answer was a medal, I'll explain it one more time. We are talking about the division of powers and tasks between the state and local self-government today. They are divided in such a way that someone performs all the tasks. If we set up a new branch of government, a new level of government, then we have to ask ourselves what tasks will be transferred to this provincial level, which state tasks are being carried out by the state today, to this provincial level. Although the Constitution does not foresee this, in my opinion, or if we are looking at the way that the tasks of local self-government have also been transferred to local self-government from the jurisdiction of the State, we must ask ourselves which tasks of the current municipalities will be delegated to the level of the provinces. This is a fundamental consideration after we ask ourselves how to organize the provinces rationally. However, I am very concerned about the approach to organising the landscapes as it is explicitly now enshrined in the Constitution if we directly implement it without considering the transfer of tasks, because we will create another level of political decision-making. So we will have municipalities with all their infrastructure, the country with all its infrastructure and the provinces with all its infrastructure and also separate funding, without asking ourselves what the original tasks of the provinces will be. This would lead to one extremely irrational organisation of this country, and in terms of equitable development and decentralisation of the dual-million-dollar state, we will establish a new expensive level of exercise of power. We are also facing these dilemmas in the preparation of a strategy for the development of local self-government. The options we see are questions whether the provinces are organised strictly as a political entity or whether the provinces are organised as a level of integration of tasks that can be more effectively carried out at the provincial level, state tasks and tasks of the local community. There is also a third option – to ask ourselves whether the country needs to be politically organised, given that the landscapes have not been put into practice in all its time, and then to consider the current constitutional regime. We are confident that in the strategy for the development of local self-government to this end we will define clear positions, but so far we find in the debate that all representatives of local authorities want regional cooperation, and virtually no one sees the landscapes as independent political organisations in terms of provincial leadership, parliaments and financing. But what will be enshrined in the strategy for the development of local self-government in the final stage will bring final preparation, which is still in progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u196	Mrs. Anja Bah, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u197	Thank you so much for that part of the answer. By what you have said, you have not disappointed me, but you have, above all, disappointed citizens and citizens. If we're really going to reduce the landscape project to political questions, who's going to be the master in the henhouse, if I say so or elsewhere, then we haven't done anything. What matters is what the provinces will take over, what tasks they have from the country. The fact is, in Slovenia, the country has proved to be a poor host compared to the municipalities. Go take a ride in Slovenia and see what the municipalities have done. In recent times, too, with the help of European funds. And the fact that all tasks are carried out, as you said before, is not true. We're supposed to be performing, but we're not. Drawing on European funds – the previous financial perspective has shown that we have not done everything, and many have also lost funds to this account. If we had the provinces, these funds would certainly have been more effective. I therefore urge you to pay more attention to the transfer of tasks to the province and not so much to the political issue itself, but in particular to the establishment of the provinces at your ministry.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Mr Boris Koprivnikar has the floor of the Minister of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u199	I am very pleased that in this part we agree to focus primarily on the question of what tasks to take to the provinces. But that's exactly what I'm alerting you to. The current constitutional regime requires the establishment of provinces as political entities, which means that Parliament, the National Assembly, would have to have provincial parliaments, provincial budgets and then municipal councils and municipal budgets. In my opinion, this would make our citizens very disappointed because we would create another level of decision-making, but we already have problems with the current one. I agree, however, that the municipalities have proved to be a good host and have made very effective use of European funds, but I should also point out that the municipalities have increased their budgets by about 9% at the time, while the state has fallen by a bad 8%. This means that this good governance has also been quite specifically financed. But I'm glad that things have changed a lot at the municipal level. But at the same time, when we compare congregations and when we talk about equality of order, we also find that there are tremendous differences between the congregations. And if we transfer the same principle to the provincial level, then it is logical to expect that in this way the differences between parts of Slovenia will only be increased but not reduced. However, if we are talking about the efficient use of European funds, and I am also pleased to note that in the last year it seems that we will achieve the target set and practically draw on almost all the resources available to us, and the indicators in recent months show us extraordinary, extremely good. In any way, however, we will continue to work in the direction of our ministry, whose tasks are more efficient, meaningful and rational at the provincial level in terms of integration and efficient work. However, we have serious reservations or we do not find a concrete solution to justify the rational organisation of the province as a political category, which is also the main purpose of the constitutional record. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Mrs Anja Bah, you have the floor to request that the next meeting discuss the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u201	Thank you very much. You correctly note, although I already know in advance that my proposal at the meeting is likely to be rejected when the vote is cast. However, if we are on a similar side, it is said that it is in everyone's interest to do what the provinces will do, and that it is not only a priority to what the political system will have or what political system they will operate on, you need to know that both are mentioned in the Constitution. Finally, he also speaks of a law that we do not have, and there are many things that can be defined there. I think that such a debate would be useful, not only for this national assembly, but especially for citizens and citizens. Last but not least, the establishment of the provinces is supported by the congregations. It would be good to have such a debate in this national assembly at the same time as you are preparing a strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday 17 June 2015 in the framework of the votes. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor to ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Dr Anji Kopač Dark. Get Mr. Primož Hainz ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u203	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished Minister, colleague and colleague! The question I am asking Minister Anji Kopač Mrak was raised on the basis of a number of phone calls from students, e-mails and visits to my office in Prekmurje, because students have assessed that they are being disabled or deprived to participate in the student mobility programme, more specifically Erasmus+. Erasmus+ is a new programme in the European Union. It is intended for education, training, youth and sport, for the period 2014-2020. It has a budget of close to €15 billion, which is about 40% more than a similar programme in the previous multiannual financial perspective. How does it work? It works so that a student who has the conditions and wants to participate in student mobility or Erasmus+ program receives for a country, say Germany, a grant of €300 and then an additional €150 on the basis of an invitation from the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for the development of staff and a scholarship for student study visits under the Erasmus programme. With regard to this second part, the 150 euros that I am concrete, the students warned that this should not be the case, because the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities should not publish the above call. Although I know, Madam Minister, that you have made arrangements with student organisations in recent days, I hope that you have also agreed, I ask you here in public to make it clear to the Slovenian public, especially the young people who are studying, that you will make your commitment to Slovenian students, especially those who come from the periphery – in particular, not to the local patriotic, from Pomurje, where you know, the Minister, what is the social picture, and probably students from Pomurje have a worse chance of student mobility. This is an extremely important project. This is not least about modernising education, and it would be a shame if we left out this opportunity that the European Union is giving us. Madam Minister: Will Slovenian students be able to join Erasmus+ in the next study year? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u204	Thank you very much. The Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Dark has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u205	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Mr. Horvath, thank you for asking. Dear Members and Members! Certainly your question is in place. Last week, we had a lot of coordination in this regard, and we were really looking for all the possible reserves at the Ministry under various budget lines to provide the missing funds, and we found some. We will try to save as much as possible because we are aware of the importance of enabling young people to go abroad. In this way, we are promoting the internationalisation of our school space, in short, a number of goals at the same time, so that we and the Minister of Education have sought common opportunities. In the end, we have found the missing money at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, but it is not easy, and we have come again and again to regret the issue of money that we have to provide within our budget lines and the money we have in our budget. Fortunately, we are doing a little better in terms of unemployment, so the number of employees is increasing, and so we have a certain manoeuvre to ensure that we can. But if I start over. Not the Ministry of Labour, but in particular the Public Fund for the Development of Personnel and Scholarships will sign up money for the Erasmus grant allowance, which aims to encourage more students to apply and participate in the Erasmus programme. The aim is to provide students from a socially weaker environment, as you said in the introduction, who have not considered international mobility due to the low basic Erasmus grant granted from the Erasmus programme's European funds. The new Erasmus+ programme allows countries to devote some of the available mobility funds to a specific supplement for students from a socially weaker environment. Slovenia has decided on this option and wants to take advantage of it, which will be justified by those students who are taking an exchange for studies and whose immediate family members receive one of the four key social rights. These were able to receive a monthly allowance of 150 euros under Erasmus+. The fact is that this reduces the available mobility resources for all students. More than €5 million is available for funding mobility in higher education as part of the Erasmus+ call for 2015. For the approved mobility of thousands of 896 students, institutions were given a total of EUR 2 000 128 per student and EUR 426 per month, taking into account the average mobility according to EU data, which lasts one semester and 5 months. The average Erasmus grant in Slovenia has increased in recent years. The reason is that the European Commission has set higher minimum amounts. According to the country in which the student leaves, Erasmus grants between 300 and 500 euros a month, while the student also retains all the other marriage grants he receives, such as Zoisova, State and others during the exchange. Unfortunately, the proportion of students with other financial resources has decreased, so that, for example, they would have a human resources grant from companies or something else. In spite of the above, there remains a high level of fear of declining mobility in a special allowance for social disadvantages. If an addition of 150 euros were not granted, despite trying to give as much basic value as possible, this has a certain impact on mobility. The costs of international mobility are increasing, and therefore more and more students are becoming increasingly difficult to decide on this international mobility. That is why we have tried to find all these funds at the Ministry, so that at this point, it appears that we will be able to provide 860,000 euros for this supplement, but this supplement will probably not be 150 euros, but it will be 100 euros. Our goal is to ensure that all these young people can be able, because it is expected that they will receive this additional money – but unfortunately we will probably not be able to find all the money to provide 150 euros for everything. But it seems right for us to stay at the same number, i.e. a thousand 800s and a few more students, and that it is better to ensure at least something than to ensure nothing. So I think at this point [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] for this supplement. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u207	Thank you very much. I must thank you, Madam Minister, that you have made efforts to find these 860 000 euros, which will mean a slightly reduced allowance, as it has been so far. But I don't understand how the Ministry simply missed this hourly item. I must say that we are also Members of Parliament, or that this supplement was hidden somewhere, that we were not paying attention to it. I personally pay a lot of attention to this very study exchange. The young study generation is our asset, our future. In particular, those who want to go from less developed regions to study exchange and bring some new knowledge into their region certainly mean some hope for the development of this region. We both probably agree that knowledge is the only way to raise Slovenia and the less developed regions particularly in a developmental sense. Given that we are practically just ahead of the new 2016 and 2017 budget discussions, I am also interested in: How do you plan to proceed with this kind of funding? I think it is very important that we provide them in the budget and that this is some automation within the multiannual financial framework, so that we do not engage in some kind of fire-fighting way by looking for these funds. Thank you very much for that answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u208	Thank you very much. The Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Dark has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u209	Thank you for your word. Believe that the adoption of the next budget for the period 2016-2017 will be a very complex task. You know that when the government adopts a cut, then it is accepted in the National Assembly that we are all unfortunately within certain limits to try to provide within a year all the funds that are needed. With us in the ministry, this is even more difficult because each budget item means money for people and is all important for different target groups, and weighing and shifting and saving in our area is the most sensitive. I believe that together, that you will also be paying attention to these budget lines and that we, too, over the course of the year, because we still have a lot of money, a little over a billion 300 million, we are still trying to redistribute, even if you want to, with fire-fighting actions, if we don't get as much money as we would like. But every budget item is really money for people and, I agree, for students, for mobility. You must be aware, however, that this was an invitation to tender for the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for the development of staff and scholarships and that the field of mobility is based on the Ministry of Education, Education and Sport. When funds passed over to the fund were shared in the past, we considered international mobility to be about a million 300,000. Now we are giving 4 million, while this year we really wanted to provide money for deficit scholarships, and I tell you that from December until – I think the government has finally adopted a scholarship policy 14 days ago and that we will be able to tender deficit scholarships. In the end, it is always a question of what is more important, whether we have money for everyone, so they are really not easy to discuss and not easy to make these decisions. I am glad that we have found this money and reassigned it so that we can provide it to those students who expected it, otherwise at a slightly reduced value.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath, you have the floor to request that the next meeting be held to discuss the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u211	Thank you very much, Madam President. I think we are Members here, and also the ministry, which, in particular in this case, cares for study mobility, for the study exchange, on the same side or we have to be on the same side. As I mentioned, we are practically just ahead of the new budget discussions. I think it would be good to have a discussion on the response of Minister Anja Kopač Dark to further inform us what this study exchange means and how important it is to invest, invest in knowledge. I therefore take advantage of the provisions of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and propose that we hold a debate at the next meeting on the Minister's response or on this question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday 17 June 2015 in the framework of the votes. Mr Primož Hainz now has the floor to ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravek Počvalšk, and the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food of Mags. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u213	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues! On the basis of previous decisions by the Court of Auditors at the beginning of this year, Lipico Turizem was transferred to the Slovenian State Holding Office. As is known, society is insolvent, so its fate is very uncertain. In February, at a joint meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food and the Committee on the Economy, we adopted conclusions proposing, among other Governments, that, in accordance with the Law on Kobilar Lipica, a four-year co-balancing plan should be adopted as soon as possible and that the Government should immediately prepare a long-term strategy for the development of Kobilar Lipica, both in terms of public service and market tourism activities and an action plan for possible legislative change. SDH has already drawn up a plan for the financial and business restructuring of Lipice Turism and forwarded it to the Government by the end of March. They do not disclose its content until the decision on how to restructure the company. It is known that in Lipica there are unsustainable conditions that employees do not receive regular salaries, that due to the inequity and non-payment of invoices, the supply of certain materials necessary for the operation of Lipica has stopped, not least, that Lipica already has a third year v.d. Director, who cannot contribute in any way to the successful work and development of Lipica. It is because of the unsustainable situation that the Lipice Turism Workers' Assembly convened a problem conference, which will take place on 23 June, to try to find answers to the questions that I am also asking the relevant ministers. Since it has been more than two months since SDH submitted the financial and business restructuring plan to the government, I ask the distinguished Minister: When can we expect the four-year planned management of Kobilarna Lipica and the long-term strategy for the development of Kobilarna Lipica and the government's response to the SDH restructuring plan? Indeed, the fact is that, due to the situation currently prevailing in Lipica and also to the use of European funds, it is in real haste both with the long-term strategy and with the adoption of the new Leipzig Act, which is intended to help restore the reputation and position of the Slovenian tourist pearl as a national monument. At the same time, I'm curious: Which ministry would be responsible for the development of Lipica in the future? So far, cooperation or I can say that the lack of cooperation between ministries has proved to be ineffective, which makes it even worse for Lipica to ever get out of the crisis that she has experienced for many years. Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Mr Zdravko Restoršek, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u215	Madam President, Mr Hainz, Members and Members of Parliament! The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology is very aware of the importance of Lipica for the further development of Slovenian tourism, and this year it has also signed a contract with the management of the public agency Kobilarna Lipica to invest €5.6 million of European funds for the Kobilar Lipica Project Comprehensive Regulation – Phase 3 – which can be implemented by the management of Kobilarna Lipica by autumn 2015, as soon as the deadline for the use of European funds is reached. The investment itself shall be carried out and shall not depend on the final decision of the organisational form. I also made sure that the work was going well on my own on a visit last week. The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology is also aware of the business problems in Lipica Turizem d.o.o., so we responded to the SDH call within a time frame and identified ourselves as one of the plans for the financial and business restructuring of Lipica Turism. However, the final decision on further organisation should take into account the fact that, in view of the development of tourism and the marketing of the destination of Lipice, it is necessary to ensure integrity and a uniform management and management approach for the entire region of Lipice. Such a principle of governance and management in the Lipice area is also advocated by the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology in the process of preparing a new management programme for the protected area of Kobilarna Lipica, which is being prepared and prepared by the managers of the Lipica area. The Ministry cooperates with proposals from our competence, but we have no direct impact on when the governance plan will be transmitted to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. At the Ministry, we are also aware of the preparation of a problem conference, which will be held on 23. 6. in Lipica, and we confirmed our participation because we want to actively participate in all activities that can contribute to the resolution of the situation in Lipica. We believe that Lipica is certainly one of our greatest tourist pearls with its untapped potential. However, it will only be possible to decide how much and which ministry should be responsible for Lipica after the confirmed future organisation of tourism or both activities, which will ensure more efficient management and operation of all activities taking place in the Lipice area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u216	Thank you. The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magi Food has the floor. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u217	Thank you, Madam President. A good greeting to all the Messengers and Messengers who are present! In the short term, I will try to answer as much as possible, but I would like to make it very clear that we need to be aware that we have a public institution in Lipice, Kobilana Lipica and Lipica Turizem, d.o.o., Casino Portorož, d.o.o., and two espionages. Most of the kidney, as this space is called, covers by its activity the public office Kobilarna Lipica. It's a public institution that works smoothly. It should be borne in mind that it has also ensured the safety of the lipican, both genetically and otherwise. In addition, like most other cobial breeding programmes, it also deals with inspections of the protected area, tours of the classic riding school, training, riding school, riding, coaching, organising cultural and horse riding events in the protected area and many other activities, which is an important part of the market activity. At the moment, however, the public institution of Kobilarna Lipica is probably conducting in the history of Lipica the largest five investments aimed at restoring the building of the castle, restoring the buildings and building of the museum of coaches, karst houses, culinary museums, revitalising cultural heritage, external surfaces, optics, lighting, cleaning facilities and sewerage. Perhaps I should also inform you that the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food for this project has provided additional, I think, EUR 230 000, so that it can be fully implemented. As far as Kobilarna Lipica is concerned, the Ministry of Horses is the most important activity, things are going on in this area and neither employees are at risk. As far as Lipice Turisma is concerned, d. o. o. I believe that there is a talk about this now, and it must be said that we have, I think, in April by SDH, a proposal for alternative solutions. On the basis of this proposal, alternative solutions, which are very different, from re-establishing a situation that was once present, proved impossible and then changed by law to some others. On which alternative the Government will take over, it is necessary to say that it will be known in a short period of time, while we have a very clear position of the Government's legislative service that the Government must not assume its role as SDH in this case. So SDH is also the one who is at the moment leading the procedure for the appointment of the Director. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u218	Mr. Primoz Hainz, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u219	Since I am sure that you have any other interesting information, I will say the following to the Minister, in particular Mr Židan. Mr Marjan Batagel, Director of Postojna Cave, undoubtedly a successful director, is in an interview in which he spoke about what he would have done – because he was probably even asked whether he would have taken over – said First, what he would have done if only one ministry was responsible for the Lipica complex. That's why I'm asking: Are you thinking about something this way? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u220	Thank you very much. The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magi Food has the floor. Diane Jedhan. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u221	Thank you very much. As you probably understand, the biggest activity that is taking place there is related to the activity of Kobilarna Lipica, although there is a professional need for more ministries, the work here is coordinated by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. And that's most of Lipice we're talking about. But the fact is, we're not saving Kobilar Lipica. That's what Slovenian pride is. This is also the subject of a visit. But what we're talking about today is that we're saving Lipico Turism, d. o. o. In saving Lipice Turism, d.o.o., you have to be aware of something else. Lipica Turizem, d.o.o., had different organizational forms. Some turned out to be inappropriate, commercially ineffective, and often the state through public money was the one that indirectly financed the poor operation of the hotel. Some organizational forms are impossible if we read reports and referrals from the Court of Auditors. I believe that the hotel can live on this location, but the hotel does not live on this location because it is there because it is there, but because it has a great advantage, that it is also on the site a cobalarium with all its activities, which also markets its part of the so-called market work. There's something else I'd like to say. I know there's a lot of ideas in the country for a horse to go to concession. However, when we talk to foreign successful masonry, and a number of these masonry, whether it is a masculine in Germany, Austria and elsewhere, it is good that this remains a public function protected by the state. This is the direction of the ministry, which this ministry has never hidden, but it is true that different solutions are possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Mr Daniel Krivec will ask the Minister without a department responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, Mrs Alenka Smercol.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u223	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to ministers, colleagues and respected ministers without a department, responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, Alenka Smercolj! The question concerns European funds. We probably all agree that European funds have been an important instrument in the past for the development of our areas and will also be in the future, especially in border areas and less developed areas. I therefore ask, given that, over the past programming period, the state has ensured co-financing of projects of cross-border programmes. In this way, it monitored the implementation of projects and also contributed to their successful completion. We know that co-financing has been divided, 85% of the European funds, 10% of the individual ministry and 5% of the applicant, who was mostly a municipality or some other entity. Although the cross-border programmes for the 2014-2020 programming period have not yet been confirmed, a number of projects are already in preparation. These include, at least in the Italian-Slovenia cross-border programme, also strategic projects intended to address specific sectoral policies. If there is no national co-financing, I must raise the following question: How will individual ministries or bodies in their composition be able to actively participate in these projects if they do not provide a financial contribution? We are speaking in comparison to the previous financial perspective. It is also important to bear in mind that if national co-financing were not in the new financial perspective, a number of potential project managers would be in a difficult position, as they would probably not be able to take over or implement such major projects. In particular, development agencies, other public institutions, municipalities and other public entities, which, for the most part, could not afford the required co-financing, are largely placed among project promoters. This has already been on the shoulders of the municipalities to a certain extent, and if the state did not co-finance this in a 10% share, it would be even better known. If this co-financing were not provided by the State, this pressure on local communities would increase significantly. With their budgets falling, there will also be fewer opportunities for co-financing of European projects. That is why the second question is: Who will be able to carry out these projects if this co-financing by ministries is not available?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Alenka Smercolj will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u225	Dear Vice President, honourable Members, honourable Members! I really thank you for this question, because you probably don't care what happens to European funds either. We have already talked a lot in this Chamber about this key work, where there is really a lot of resources, about European cohesion policy and goal one, this is about investment in growth and jobs. But we haven't, at least since I've been here, talked about European territorial cooperation, which is also a key element of cohesion policy. Maybe that's why I'm basically just saying where we stand with all the programs right now. European territorial cooperation is divided into three large sets, cross-border programmes, transnational programmes and interregional programmes, and at this moment, given that the issue is also coming for cross-border programmes, I will focus only on this part. Slovenia is also in the new financial perspective for the three cross-border programmes of the managing body, which is for the cross-border programmes of Slovenia-Austria, Slovenia-Hungary and Slovenia-Croatia. All these three programmes have already been coordinated with cross-border partners, with countries and have also been forwarded to the European Commission. The principle is very similar to that of the operational programme itself. There we have identified which axes we will consider as a priority. At the moment, we have already received comments from the European Commission on two programmes, and we are still waiting for Austria. We predict that somewhere by autumn we will be able to coordinate these three programmes. The second fate is experienced by the cross-border programme Slovenia-Italy, where Slovenia is not the governing body, this is Furlania-Julian Region, where we have now finalized the content, but the management body is relatively slow in its implementation. But anyway, this program was supposed to be delivered in July. Now, as far as co-financing is concerned. In the past perspective, you have rightly said, 85% came from the Regional Development Fund. The same will be true in the new financial perspective. So we're talking about these remaining 15%. Here, at least in my service, we will fight to ensure that part of the co-financing is also provided in the budget for the following year and next years. Co-financing will be regulated in a regulation to be adopted in early September, at least now we are about this far away. However, our conversation with the Ministry of Finance and the budget will be crucial. It is clear that, as so far as the ministry is concerned, it will have to provide its own resources, according to its own budgets. With regard to the 5% provided by the municipalities, however, we want them to be able to be covered from the budget, as we are aware that even smaller units, especially what small societies, will be extremely difficult to reach these 5%. But in any case, when the first public tenders go out, this is expected to happen in November, by then the regulation will clearly specify on which side this 15% will be required. It is true, however, that the European Commission and the European Union itself, by its new regulation, no longer foresees that countries co-finance this 15% and that everything remains on the beneficiaries, but of course they can also be exceptions. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Here you are, Mr. Daniel Krivec, a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u227	Thank you, Minister for your answer. I think that was answered, but this answer was quite as I would say, still in the clouds, because it is probably all about the adoption of budgets for the next two years and also for the negotiations. At this point, however, I think that this is a bad signal for all those who are preparing cross-border projects and other projects that will draw on European funds, because these projects need to be clearly defined how the financial part will be provided. So I agree with you that, to a large extent, the local communities, as well as the public agencies involved, will have great difficulties in drawing up the financial structure and thus the possibilities for applying for these funds. I think that this is, in its own way, a very bad journey for the next financial perspective, because it will only allow more developed communities, to which these funds are not primarily earmarked, to be able to draw funds and everyone else in this story will be deprived. In the context of cross-border cooperation, I am also interested in the initiative that has been given in the past on different sides, particularly on the Italian-Slovenian relationship and also Austria-Slovenia. I'm asking: How does a fund of small projects allow smaller border municipalities to have easier access to European funds? In this financial perspective, was this accepted in the talks between Slovenia and the country of Furlania-Julia in particular? But if I tell you my conclusion, in this case, there's a manna that we have in Slovenia because we don't have any established landscapes. [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] For all the European projects bind co-financing to the land or to the provinces, but this gap between the congregation and the country is too great. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Alenka Smercolj will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u229	Talks for the budget start more or less in the coming weeks, so that it is very soon also clear what will be the agreement for the regulation. We have already started talks with the Ministry of Finance, so I believe that before the projects are finally ready in the course of this summer, it will be very clear where we will reach and who will carry this 15%. However, as regards the cross-border programme of Italy-Slovenia or the possibility of a small fund of projects, this has not happened. It is now agreed between countries that a possible part of the funds will be allocated to strategic projects, is said to be large projects and others will apply for the tender. It is said that it will be possible to come along with very small projects, as it has been so far. But the key negotiations with the Italian side went mainly in this direction, that they really wanted the means to spend practically only on strategic projects, where they would also set up strategic partners, which would be really bad for Slovenia. Now we have come into a completely new situation, this administration will not be, we have not landed on it, but these negotiations have been very hard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Mrs Violeta Tomić will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u231	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I was back in the field, this time Hrpelje-Kozina, and there I met mostly young farmers from Kras and Brkinov who presented me with some problems caused by the cultivation of the working surfaces. This is due to the prospect of young people being displaced, resulting in the economic and developmental retardation of the region. The area of Krasa and Brkinov is currently up 74% and will reach 80% of the rate of growth by 2023. The increase in the area in vegetation allows the spread and propagation of wild game that puts pressure on the remaining working areas, both fields and orchards, while large beasts threaten flocks of poultry and other domestic animals. It is also due to a failed subsidy policy that cut hay that would be suitable for feed, for example, in Kobilna Lipica, where we know that they have problems with horse nutrition, ends up in gravel because it is more important form, i.e. mowing, appearance of orderliness, than the content that is the rounding of the material flows and prudent, environmentally friendly management. The question is whether our agriculture is an agronomy or a 'gerconomy', since all the strategy and attention of the profession and the officials is devoted solely and solely to the surfaces of GErk – the graphic units for the use of agricultural land for which European subsidies are granted. We are obviously not interested in the area of growth for the production of new processing land, even though we have at least a square metre of land per inhabitant in the European Union. Of course, it is not necessary to acquire land whose remodeling would cost 50,000 euros per hectare, as you have calculated recently, but we can plan for those who could be with appropriate culture – for example, industrial hemp or Miscantus – to make their own income and the right profits interesting and attractive to young entrepreneurs and to reduce unemployment. Therefore, I ask you how you intend to encourage the production of new processing areas on the currently harvested, once agricultural land, in order to increase the size of the land per capita, thereby ensuring greater food security and self-care. Do you anticipate additional stimulation for those who want to cultivate land and produce food in areas where grass cannot now carry a certain 0.5 head of cattle per hectare and what measures are you planning to prevent or compensate for the damage caused by large beasts? We know that solid electrical fences mean relatively large investments, but they can be reimbursed over a long period of time for minor damages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u232	Thank you very much. The Minister of Magic will answer. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u233	Thank you, Madam President, for the question. As for the first growing, this does not grow where quality agricultural land is located in Slovenia, because agricultural production is interesting there. It thrives where it is very difficult to process mechanically and where there is very low income per hectare. We are implementing or will implement some additional measures in the future here. The first measure concerns stimulation, where it is necessary to know that with the new agricultural policy increasing payments to grasses, this is a so-called partial convergence until 2019 and we are also implementing funding measures for OMD. This is almost €40 million per year, i.e. financing farming where, under some other criteria, it is essentially not economically appropriate. This is done according to criteria that are already relatively old. This is 8 criteria that are part of the European acquis and we will recalculate these criteria by 2017. So in 2017, 2018 in the European Union and also in Slovenia, we go to some new payment according to known criteria. It is necessary to know, however, that we have already made an additional calculation in 2010 and those who grow where it is most difficult, this is mountain, hill, which has increased the payment of the OMD to the hectare. What further needs to be said is that in the case of growth itself, in essence, the basic agricultural policy measures are direct measures, except for those 400 production links that we have, so that some direct effect as such does not give that other pillar, that is, the OMD and some environmental measures, remember what a mockery to some extent one measure has been involved and that is the hand basket of grass where the inclination is too great. In fact, this is only a payment to those who cannot easily mow with machines because there is too much tendency for them to, because they do it manually or with smaller machines, they can also add a smaller payment because if they do not use large machines, there is less pollution of nature and thus protect the environment. As to whether the country can further help people dealing with beasts, it can in fact help in a number of ways. The first is a measure under the Rural Development Programme, which is the protection of herds with an electric fence. I must say that this measure amounts to 119.9 euros per hectare, is financed over a period of 7 years, and farmers on surfaces covering 595 hectares have applied for this measure. It is also possible to protect the sheep or other animals with dogs, and this measure, which by the way is financially valued at 107.6 euros per hectare, has been applied to farmers covering 559 hectares. But we have a third measure, this is an investment measure, and with this measure, those who invest for the first time in expensive networks, networks that drive away or protect against wolves are much more expensive than nets that drive away a bear or any other animal, and we finance it through investments. As far as compensation is concerned, which is linked to wildlings themselves, parkers say, this is done within the Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, where hunting families are, through hunting families, this is part of their concessional relationship. Where we have special hunting grounds and through the Forest Department. However, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food is not responsible for beasts. By doing so through ARSO, this is the Environment Agency, which is under the responsibility of the Ministry of Environment and Space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber. I'm sorry, I misunderstood. Mrs. Violeta Tomić, request a supplement to the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u235	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I agree with you that production is not interesting in more difficult accessible areas, but the Ministry and the Government are the ones who, with their subsidy policies, somehow determine what is more desirable and what is not. You have not answered my question as to how you intend to encourage the production of new processing areas on the currently cultivated agricultural land, because we want to be more self-sustaining. We keep talking about buying Slovenian and so on, and our surfaces are growing and we are not exactly in line with what we are promoting. Also, seeing that the vineyard being cut is subsidized on the ground is not a good incentive for agriculture, but a farmer who comes in and tries to sell it without getting paid. And also, if we say that horses in Lipica are hungry several times, let's leave aside why, in plastic bales, the dancing haystacked, I don't think that's a good incentive. That's why I want to know what you're gonna do. Will you consider these subsidies to encourage agriculture to progress, as such a policy hinders agriculture? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u236	Thank you very much. The Minister of Magic will answer. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u237	Thank you. First of all, honourable Member, if you have any information that the horses in Lipica are hungry, I would in fact ask you to deliver this information. This is a criminal offence in Slovenia, we have the first case of prison sentences just these days because they let some animals die because of hunger. Leaving hungry animals is a crime. If you have information, please deliver it. Believe me, this will be immediately taken over by a competent inspection service. As far as direct payments are concerned. Most direct payments are actually hectares. These are payments that, if Slovenia collected itself, would be different, would be linked to production and 15% are linked to production and there will be some effect. But as for the question, I apologize, you asked a question, and I missed it before. At this point, we are preparing a regulation on the basis of money collected from a change in the destination of agricultural land to another land. In principle, this money is available at an annual level of one and a half million to 2 million, and this is the money that will be available to holders through the call. At this point, we are deciding that the co-financing rate was 90%, not 100%, because someone here has to invest some of his money to see that he has a real interest, and it will be co-financed under the de minimis rule. The de minimis rule is 15,000 euros. We also agreed to take into account our own work, which is the only right thing to do. Of course it's like this from the back. If it is financed or co-financed by public money to establish a re-agricultureable area from the cultivated surface, then, of course, the State has the right to prescribe at least how long this area must be in the agricultural production function. So we can't finance something, and then three years from now, we find it's healing again. But how long can we actually have control, and at this point, there is a debate. My personal opinion is that it's good that it's 10 years or more. But there are also different opinions, and we need to harmonise this now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will ask the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Marble. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u239	Thank you for your words and for your kind greeting, especially to the Minister for Finance, Dr. Marble. Bank lending is crucial for the development of the economy and consequently for the creation of economic growth, including for the creation of gross domestic product and, of course, for the reduction of public debt in the Republic of Slovenia. I myself, at a time when we have approached to deal with the consequences of the global economic and financial crisis, have pointed out that the procedure decided by Slovenia is very inappropriate and is intended to sell out Slovenia rather than to remedy it. The company for bank claims management, then I made a statement that this bad bank is actually the legalisation of the place of private property of private companies and that, of course, the transfer of the country's assets to the Slovenian State holding company is a national issue, because at the moment of Slovenia, 17 billion assets remain. In part, this was eased because this property was not directly transferred to the holding company but was intended to be managed by it, but, of course, these procedures that we are facing are extremely poor, untransparent and, in my opinion, also harmful to the country. But by no means did I hope that when we joined the recovery of the consequences of the economic and financial crisis in Slovenia, we will imagine that at a time when we are very well recapitalising our banks, we will be in the position to invest EUR 5 billion in which we never try or actually fail to get an answer, under what criteria did these 5 billion come to – but worse, then these banks, when they have a lot of money, do not lend to the economy or even face such information as was followed in the Youth Week. There is supposed to be a decision of the European Commission since the end of 2013, SA.33229 (2012/C) and SA.35709 (2013/N), which stipulates that our banks must offer unfavourable and strict credit conditions for borrowers. This is something unheard of, in fact incomprehensible, and I therefore ask you whether you are familiar with these two decisions of the European Commission and how you will act if there are any such harmful decisions neutralising or abolishing them. And I'm asking if you might be aware if there is any similar document concluded with the chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany related to Aerodrome and Telekom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u240	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State, Dr. Dusan Maramor, will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u241	Dear Member, Mr. Janko Weber! The decisions mentioned in your question concern the granting of State aid to Nova Ljubljanska banka and Nova Kreditna banka Maribor. As you are aware, on the basis of the stress tests carried out in 2013, a high capital deficit was identified in both banks and on this basis the Bank of Slovenia issued an exceptional measure requiring a recapitalisation of EUR 2.4 billion. Both banks were recapitalised by the State in 2013, for which the rules governing State aid require prior written consent from the European Commission and these are the two documents. By the decisions referred to therein, the European Commission granted State aid to banks, with the Republic of Slovenia making commitments relating to the operation of banks during the period of emergency restructuring. These are compensatory measures aimed at preventing distortions of competition which all Member States of the European Union had to adopt in the event that they wanted to recapitalise banks, and Slovenia was no exception. If Slovenia had not accepted the commitments regarding the operations of those banks during the restructuring period, the European Commission would not have found that state aid was in line with state aid rules and could not have granted State aid to the bank. What this would mean for both of our largest banks, however, has been made clear by the representatives of the Bank of Slovenia several times. In the question you are asking, because of your opinion, harmful decisions our banks must offer unfavourable and strict terms of credit to borrowers who are therefore going to foreign banks. Indeed, one commitment also relates to the management of the bank with risks, in particular in terms of the implementation of the credit policy, but its purpose is quite contrary. The purpose of this undertaking is to prevent or to the extent possible limit the lending of undertakings with insufficient creditworthiness and, as a consequence, the minimum possibility of regular repayment of commitments made. This is precisely the kind of lending policy for banks that have benefited from these State aids, which has led to the emergence of the last banking crisis, and therefore the purpose of this commitment is to improve credit risk management, thereby improving the quality of the credit portfolio of these banks. The commitments also relate to the withdrawal of the State from the ownership of the banks which were granted State aid. And maybe just an answer to that question. I am not familiar with any document signed with the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Here you are, Mr. Janko Weber, a request to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u243	Thank you. Of course, I want to complete the answer. At the same time, of course, I also thank you, but in this sense, Dr. Marble also acknowledges that these two documents exist. Of course, the question is, what will we do in Slovenia, that banks will actually lend to the economy. The simple explanation that we have so few interested companies in Slovenia that all the companies applying for credit are in fact so critical that banks do not grant them credit is not satisfactory. Because the fact is that even in the supervisory board of the New Ljubljana Bank we do not have a complete team that could actually exercise our interest if it exists in Slovenia. However, if the interest is in fact that banks reduce their business framework, of course they also reduce their value and prepare their banks for cheap sales. Finally, this is reflected in the statement made by the President of the Management Board of the New Ljubljana Bank, Mr Janko Medje, who says that the bank is actually ready for sale. Even worse, when we see in the media that at a time when the media want to report on this problem, Nova Ljubljanska Bank also wants to actually get involved in editorial policy, say Officer Dnevnik, where they fundamentally intervened in the editorial structure precisely because of this writing. So, Minister, do you think you've done everything you can to actually remedy these harmful decisions in a way that the money we have invested in banks will finally come into the economy?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u244	Dr. Dushan Marble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Perhaps first, I would say that, in essence, with regard to this rehabilitation of banks, it was crucial that an over-indebted Slovenian economy, after all three key indicators of indebtedness, is debt in gross domestic product, then debt in the equity economy and debt in the so-called EBITDA, this is profit before taxes, interest and depreciation in order to reduce this debt. As long as the economy did not recover, the banks could not lend additional loans and the lending of the economy was declining. However, in the years 2012 to 2014, we have taken an extremely large step. We have reduced the indebtedness of the Slovenian economy under the responsibility of the European Union, in particular the euro area. As a result, we now see that the new approved bank loans are increasing, that, while the credit situation is no longer declining, it is not increasing, but, on the other hand, the demand for credit, especially large companies, is growing very rapidly, and small and medium-sized enterprises are not yet so indebted, although demand is growing again over the last three months. So I expect that this debt and better bank management will bring new lending, especially in 2016, perhaps already in the last quarter of this year, but in 2016 I think this should definitely happen. So this whole process of rehabilitation of the banking system, economic recovery, debt, even through the surplus of the balance of payments, has led to this situation in Slovenia, where we can expect to increase credit in the future. Banks have the potential, they have liquidity, so I expect new lending. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u246	Mr Janko Weber, you have the floor to request that the next meeting be held to discuss the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u247	Thank you. Yes, in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I request that the reply of Dr. Marble be discussed. The fact is that all the data shows that Slovenian banks, which we have strongly recapitalised, offer significantly worse credit conditions to borrowers than foreign banks. As a result, they are going to foreign banks, both businesses and other committees, and this is actually reducing the size of our banks' operations, which we have recapitalised, seriously and to a very large extent, and I reiterate that until today we have not received an answer as to why such a large scale has been needed. Estimates are that at least 2 billion has been overinvested in the recapitalisation of banks and the fact is that even when you ask, say, the eminence of Slovenian banking by Dr. Ribnikar, whether he can obtain this data, even such an eminence in the banking field fails to reach this data. Therefore, I believe that the debate in the National Assembly on this issue would be extremely important and necessary, as it could be possible to get an overview of these two decisions, in which you, the President, if they have the status of a secret document, are likely to be able to close the meeting to the public at that time, so that the National Assembly is informed of these two decisions. At the same time, we may also have an answer from these two decisions, however, why, according to estimates existing in Slovenia, we had to put at least two billion more into recapitalisation of banks than would have been necessary. This is therefore a very serious question, and I therefore propose that the National Assembly decide to hold a debate at the next meeting on Mr Marble's response to my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u248	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday 17 June 2015 in the framework of the votes. Mr Jernej Vrtovec will now raise the question to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u249	Dear Mr. Secretary, Mr. President, hello! The Vipava Fast Road is closed after several days of the year because of a strong storm. The weather conditions typical of the Vipavska Valley thus prevent the full functionality of the fast road, which, as I have already said, is mainly for freight transport, depending on the type of freight transport, closed after several days of the year. Due to the frequent closure of the fast road, the local economy has been fully marketed since 2009 since the last section was opened, namely the Podnanos–Raztova section, and the road has been fully marketed, causing major economic damage. In addition, the safety of drivers of passenger cars is at risk in the wake of major storms. On the very planning of the route of this fast road, it was ensured that the so-called green embankments would be built along the road and the 1996 Regulation on the location plan for the Primorski kark motorway on the Vipava-Selo Rapid Road section would be built. The representatives of the municipalities of the Regional Chamber of Commerce and the Regional Chamber of Commerce are aware of the latest assurances made by your Ministry and the Company for the Motorways of the Republic of Slovenia, namely DARS, that the work for the construction of so-called anti-aircraft fences would start in 2016 and that a public call for the selection of the contractor should be prepared this autumn. The project is also to be included in the concession contract. This is certainly good news for us, locals and residents, as well as for the local economy. but we are very careful in view of the unfulfilled promises of the last ten years under the 1996 Regulation and the 1999 Regulation. Therefore, Mr Minister, I am asking you specifically when will finally be the construction of the above-mentioned anti-aircraft fences, installations and also the realisation of the anti-aircraft fences on the fast road Rebrnica-Vrotojba or Nano-Vrtojba on the exposed sections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u250	Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, responds.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u251	Thank you, Mr President, for your word. Thank you, too, Mr Jernej Vrtovac, for the question raised. Indeed, what you have already stated in the question is that, in accordance with the definition of the location plan, it was envisaged that protection against the strong winds would be carried out at this section, which, of course, has not yet been implemented to this day. In certain sections, this protection exists, and to a large extent it still needs to be done. In short, in accordance with the provisions of this location plan for the construction of this fast road, DARS then launched activities in 2010 with the implementation of this anti-aircraft protection on the route of this fast road. There were two stages of performance. In fact, the first was already carried out and was only an analysis of the impact of wind on each type of vehicle and the determination of these wind speed limits, in which the DARS then initiates individual measures, that is to say a speed limit or then a complete closure for each type of vehicle. However, the second key measure is, of course, planning and implementation of anti-aeronautical protection. The undeniable fact is that this protection must be implemented because the days, as you yourself have already mentioned in your parliamentary question, when this fast road due to the storm is closed to individual types of vehicles, is simply too much. Of course, it is also necessary to take into account the only value of the project, which is not negligible. It is estimated at around EUR 25 million, and this, of course, means a certain obstacle to the faster implementation of this project. In view of the above, I can say that the production of the documentation project is actually in the final phase and will be completed in accordance with the deadlines by mid-this year. However, the condition for implementation itself is, of course, the provision of financial resources and, therefore, this financing of the production of the project documentation itself was planned in 2015. However, the first funds for the construction of this anti-aircraft protection on the flat part of the route are available in 2016 and beyond, in accordance with the plan for the implementation of the DARS concession contract, of course, in accordance with the financial possibilities of DARS. However, DARS and the Ministry are all working together through the monitoring committee for the implementation of the anti-aircraft protection project and informing it of all activities related to this project. However, I can also say that this week there is yet another periodic meeting, where representatives of the Committee will be presented with the work of the last six months, as far as the last meeting has passed. In short, work is being done, as it is said, the design is expected to be completed by the middle of this year. Very soon, and so on, the call and then the implementation of the first sections in the following year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u252	Mr. Jernej Vrtovec, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u253	Dear Mr. Secretary! I am primarily pleased with your response to this project being accelerated. The information we were able to obtain from the local area is therefore correct. As a result, if I understand you correctly, the information is therefore held to start with parts on flat sections in 2016 and calls can therefore be expected this autumn. So that's what he's holding. The Vipavci are very happy about this. Also in 2010, between then Minister Vlasic, Dars and then President of the Administration, Mrs Duhovnikovo, of course also representatives of politics and economy from northern Primorska, talks were held to prepare an action plan to anticipate the dynamics of the necessary professional work to build this anti-aircraft fence. This is not only about the Vipava Valley, it is about all transit traffic, which goes to one part of northern Italy and not least about the whole of Soča, the whole region of Goriška region, it is not only about the Upper Vipava Valley or the Vipava Valley. At the same time, this is also very useful in terms of limiting noise on this exposed section, which is one of the main concerns expressed by local people. I have not talked about this, but I am just stressing, let me think about it, because the locals who are north of the highway or the fast road come many times to the parliamentary offices and say that the fast road is very much heard in their homes. As a result, the ministry or the DARS should also consider how they will limit noise from a fast road to a nearby village if we are already building anti-aircraft fences, as the distances are very small. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u254	Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u255	Thank you. I fully agree with what you have also said in the end that these measures can also be combined with anti-group protection planning. Indeed, the possible implementation with the earth’s embankment also works as a protection against wind as a counter-group protection, and it is therefore reasonable to combine these two, rather than planning some additional measures that would then require further anti-group protection. Because the protection against wind itself can also be done through different solutions to these wind - weakening anti-airlock fences. Last but not least, we have this example on the Black Kal viaduct itself, where the wind speed decreases to such an extent that traffic does not have to be closed. And even though certain sections can see certain lamels, where the wind is then diverted and thus allowed to ride even in a strong wind, they do not serve such an anti-aircraft fence to protect against noise. So where this is necessary, of course, it makes sense to combine it in the form of earth’s embankments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u256	Now Mr Franc Laj, Minister of the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen, who is excusedly absent, will ask him a question, which I am asking him to make clear whether he wants a written or oral answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u257	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear representatives of the government and everyone else present, I welcome you all very much! I will immediately say that I will be satisfied with the Minister's written reply. It is of paramount importance for the smooth development of local communities to obtain all the necessary consent from the Environmental Agency of the Republic of Slovenia in the preparation and adoption of municipal spatial plans within official or reasonable time limits. This is why it is important that the Agency's response is appropriate, but the practice shows a completely different picture. Let me describe one of the many cases. The municipality of Lendava took a number of years and a lot of resources to prepare, in accordance with the Agency's requirements, an elaboratory flood hazard for the purposes of producing the UNV, which was 22 years old. 4. 2015 handed over to the agency which up to 4. 6. 2015 has not yet sent its position so that it can continue with the necessary procedures for drawing up this spatial plan. Given that a few steps are still needed to obtain this document, we can only ask ourselves when they will come to this, for them a very important development document. What's he got to do with it? As a result, it can certainly have this if it is delayed by these procedures, that a number of potential investors will be able to change their minds and move away from the intention to invest in this area, which will certainly further affect such an economically affected area. I ask the Minister whether he is preparing any measures to rationalise these procedures and, of course, to improve the Agency's responsiveness. Thank you for her answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u258	He will now be Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Magi Food. Mr Bojan Podkrajšek asked Dejan Židan a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u259	Dear President of the National Assembly, thank you very much for the floor. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Dear Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, I should like to address to you the question concerning the renewal of vineyards, especially in Styria. In 2007, a regulation had been adopted suggesting that at the end of Styria, at least 0.85% of the hectares of vineyards should be available to go from at least 0.10 hectares to renovation and can also apply for subsidies. On the ground it is heard that it is positive that the money for these renovations is sufficient to encourage this ministry, of course, but the problem is that there are many smaller vineyards in this area. Wine growers who do not have a whole vineyard for their own needs but also put them on the market. Of course, all these small vineyards, when combined, are large vineyards. I therefore ask, Minister, what is the possibility that this quota, if I may so call it, would be reduced by 0.85% of the hectare, such as in Haloz or Primorskie, below 0.6 hectares. Dear Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u260	The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magi Food is responsible. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u261	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Member, thank you for asking. Let me start with some basic data. First of all, what is important is that we actually spend 4 to 4.5 million euros per year for this measure. If I say a few numbers, let's say in 2010 180 hectares, that's 306 deposits, then 170, 260, last year 2014 346 deposits, which is 202 hectares. This is about changing varieties, changing locations or restoring an old vineyard that must be older than 10 hectares and younger if it was affected by a natural disaster. At the same time, we actually have some criteria, such as restructuring of at least 0.1 hectares, where it works together with the area under restructuring, it has to be 0.85 or, as you yourself said, 0.6 hectares and a permit issued by the administrative unit. While we do not finance the wine sector alone, we also finance penetration into foreign markets, which I think is shown in accelerated exports at least in the last period. What does a change of borders mean, I have to say, in fact, that until this moment, at least without recall, I have not been given an official initiative to propose that the border should be reduced for these and these reasons. If such an initiative comes, we will in any case take it very seriously. We intend that every type of production, if only there is some public interest – that is to say, to produce something for the sake of survival, life, development, exports, not only as a kind of own hobby of production – we want to support, because we know that farming in Slovenia is limited, and that every option that is available must be exploited. So let me finish this. If there is an official initiative to lower the border, we will in any case examine it very professionally, also compare it with the European acquis and try to find a solution that will be most appropriate for our vineyards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u262	Mr. Bojan Podkoršek, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u263	Dear Minister, thank you very much for your answer. It's true, even to me, when I was on the ground, they told me, as you said, that he spent a lot of money on reconstruction. Of course, they are particularly satisfied with vineyards that have more than a hectare of vineyards. There is no doubt in this area. Of course, those small vine growers are concerned. Since these are hilly farms and hilly vineyards, it is more difficult to get these renovations to be included in subsidies, so I appeal to you. However, I will encourage the competent services to also address you with a professionally processed request. Thank you very much for your efforts and your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u264	The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magi Food has the floor. Diane Jedhan. [[No, no, ……]] As follows, Mr Ljubo Žnidar, Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petra Gasperšić, asks.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u265	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Secretary, the rest of you are present, a very nice greeting! Portorož Airport is the third international airport in the Republic of Slovenia in its size. In 2013, a record 26,000 passengers were brought to this airport. This is information that says that it is an important both economic and tourism segment in this part. The airport was built in 1971 when the municipality of Piran built it, and from that time until now practically this airport has not experienced any development, no expansion, no economic reinforcement and no possibility of increased scale by visiting tourist planes and, of course, also by tourists themselves. Both the municipality of Piran and the airport took their first steps 10 years ago to change the state spatial plan, desiring to extend the runway from a thousand 200 to 400 metres. This is an essential segment necessary to create the conditions for the airport of Portorož to expand, increase its capacity and also increase the possibility of landing the major aircraft themselves. On the basis of this initiative of the municipality and the airport, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a decision in 2010 in preparation of the State Spatial Plan for Portorož Airport. Dear Minister, I ask you what is the time dynamic in the preparation of this State Spatial Plan for the Enlargement of Portorož Airport.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u266	Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, responds.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u267	Thank you, President, for your word. So I must say that I was very pleased that the Government adopted a decision on the preparation of the State Spatial Plan for Portorož Airport on 4 June this year. The procedure for preparing the State Spatial Plan will be carried out in accordance with the Law on the Placing of Spatial Arrangements of State Interest into Space, which constitutes two key phases. The first phase includes the planning of variants and the approval of the proposal with the most appropriate variants, and the second phase then includes the planning of the approved variant and the adoption of the State Spatial Plan with the Government Regulation. In view of the fact that the process has just begun, you regret a more precise timetable for the further process of adopting this State Spatial Plan. In fact, the real title for this is the Ministry of Environment and Space, which has not created the same timetable at this time. However, I can say that in practice this adoption procedure, the procedures for adopting State spatial plans usually take several years. If there are no major complications, it can be completed within two to three years, but it can also take 5 years and more, as we also have experience from our own practice. In this regard, I can only ensure that at the Ministry of Infrastructure we do everything we can to ensure that the procedures in this particular case run as quickly and efficiently as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u268	Once again, Mr Ljubo Žnidar has the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u269	Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. In some ways, I do not understand why the Government is this year, if this decision was taken by the Government in 2010, why the adoption of this decision on the preparation of the State Spatial Plan for Portorož airport actually took place. I'd like to ask for that answer here. In 2010, the National Civil Aviation Development Programme designated Portorož airport as a transport infrastructure of strategic importance for the country by 2020. This is said to be a strategic project, which is also very important for the development of the economy, tourism and other segments, and here is a very important year-on-year tourist outage as well as the loss of other economic resources, as Portorož Airport also allows the construction of smaller hangars for smaller and medium-sized aircraft, which are actually lacking in this environment, so there is also an opportunity. I know that putting into space is not an easy procedure, it also takes a certain time, but of course I cannot imagine that 200 meters of the route would be placed as long as some highway section. For this reason, I imagine that this State Spatial Plan will be drawn up as soon as possible. We also know that there are no essential resources here, because there are not many obstacles to the construction of spatial housing, which is why there are not so many obstacles in this respect. So I would expect an answer here for this segment, why readmission and maybe it is [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u270	Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, responds.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u271	Thank you very much. As it is known, the reason for this decision to be drafted in a new way is that the procedure will be initiated in accordance with the Law on the Placing of Spatial Arrangements of State Interest into Space, in short, that the matter will proceed in accordance with this new law, which also allows for a different separation of the procedure itself, faster and more effectively. It is undeniable that Portorož airport is one of the three strategic key airports in the Republic of Slovenia, and accordingly we will give it the necessary attention so that this spatial plan can be brought to an end as soon as possible. I agree that it may not be as difficult to elaborate as it is for some kind of installation of a line object, but we both probably realize that it is a place that is difficult. There we know that the functions of the landscape park, the proximity of the border crossing, the proximity of the existing road, in this sense probably will be difficult to place. Whether it is a large infrastructure facility or a small infrastructure facility, all phases, i.e. all studies, all analyses, all environmental reports, should be prepared in such a way that it takes time, but as we say, we will strive to ensure that these procedures reach a successful conclusion as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u272	Mr Ljubo Žnidar, you have the floor to request that an answer be discussed at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u273	Dear Minister, I thank you for this answer. Above all, if both you and all the producers assist in drawing up this State Spatial Plan, I would suggest that a public debate be held, even with the acquisition of all public opinions, since this is an infrastructure, strategically important object, which is extremely important for the economy and development of tourism in our country. Just following the fact that we are all somehow trying together to shorten this placement of the State's Portorož Airport site plan, I propose that this public debate be held. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u274	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday 17 June 2015 in the framework of the votes. Now Mrs Majcen, the Minister for the Environment and Space, who is rightly absent, will ask Mrs Anita Koleš, whom I ask to say whether she wants a written or oral answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u275	Dear Mr President, both ministers, Mr Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Ordinance on the management of separate fractions in the public service of municipal waste management provides, inter alia, that one collection centre for separate collection of waste should be arranged in the territory of each municipality with more than 3 000 inhabitants. In environmental law enforcement procedures, however, municipalities are also bound by the provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government, which provides in its 61st Article that two or more municipalities may jointly establish a public institution or public undertaking for the purpose of providing more cost-effective public services, and many municipalities have followed the objectives of economic behaviour or tasks in the area of the collection and disposal of municipal waste. Thus, in the municipality of Celje a collection centre of Bukovzlak and a company that provides an economic public service for the collection of waste for several municipalities, including the Municipality of Šentjur. The centre is located directly at the border of both municipalities, while the assembly centre is also part of the infrastructure which is partly owned by the municipality of Šentjur and is subject to the contract of hire and the relationship with regard to the implementation of the public service. The activities of the centre are complemented by a wide-ranging system of ecological islands, while a large part of the citizens of Šentjur use a collection centre to deliver waste to their households. I understand that the aim of the regulatory regime is to ensure an adequate system of collection and management of waste, but the example of the Municipality of Šentjur is evidence that the public service of municipal waste management can be effective, rational and at an appropriate high level, while the organisation follows the objectives of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of environmental protection, despite the absence of a collection centre within the local community's borders. Therefore, the construction requirements, which are defined only by the number of inhabitants, are inadequate and bureaucratic, and in particular do not take into account other important public service objectives such as cost-effectiveness and efficiency. In 2012, the proposal for a regulation on municipal waste was already under preparation with a view to updating the regulation, and I ask the Minister when the new regulation on municipal waste will be adopted and how specific cases of local communities will be taken into account in the new regulation. The appropriate solution can to a large extent help to rationalise the costs of municipalities which are currently lacking investment funds and are difficult to ensure the performance of all statutory tasks. I request an oral reply from the Minister at the next meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u276	Mr Tomaž Lisec will now raise the question to the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u277	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Minister, other ministers, colleagues and colleagues! As early as April, I had asked Mr Cerar a question about the adoption of the Sports Act. Otherwise, Mr Cerar apologized for that session, but also because he was right, he probably didn't have enough time, so he didn't pay attention to the Sports Act. That's why I want to know what's going on with the Sports Act. I noticed in the media that on April 22nd, a draft law on sport was presented on a round table, but that, of course, it was immediately announced that it had already been in line with the Ministry's legal service in early April, but since the two ministers had stepped down, obviously this law would not be adopted before summer. Then it was said that when he received the green light from the minister or minister, whatever he was going to do, the law would go to a one-month public hearing if it was to be intersectorally coordinated, and then, of course, to the National Assembly and to the Government. And I must say, Madam Minister, when I look at the Ministry's website, which contains proposals for regulations, public announcements and proposals, I have not observed this proposed act. Otherwise, on one of the websites of one of the community community, I traced the work material from 15. 4. 2015, which is why I am first of all interested in whether the Law on public sport is actually a law on public treatment? Last time I was in Brežice at the opening of the regional office of the Olympic Committee, where there was also a debate on what local communities, the Sports Foundation, the Olympic Committees and athletes expected of this law, and in fact there was much debate. Public debate – whether or not, by the time of public hearing and so on, so I am interested in this time-table for the adoption of law. I am also interested, given that the law is without introduction and the financial consequences which you consider to be the financial consequences of this law. How will children's sports as well as older sports be reorganized? What will this law bring for sports infrastructure? When I read the law, I saw that the Institute for Sport of the Republic of Slovenia was changing, and I am also here wondering whether it was this Nordic center of Planica or a completely new matter. In short, I wonder if or how you will be involved in the adoption of this law with the Olympic Committee, with the Sports Foundation and not least with the local communities? So much for the intro.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u278	Answers Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u279	Dear President, honourable Member Tomaž Lisec! For the introduction, Minister Jernej Pikalo set up an interdepartmental working group for the preparation of the new Sport Act in the Republic of Slovenia in May 2014 after the adoption of the new National Sport Programme 2014-2023. In 2014, of course, a number of active and, of course, very constructive meetings were held with all the representatives of the working group, from representatives of the Sports Directorate to ministries and so on. The working group met at nine meetings, last time 19. 2. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. She discussed all the issues openly, of course in the field of sport and in the follow-up to the national sport programme in Slovenia. Let me highlight some of the current developments or activities carried out this year by the working group. A meeting with representatives of the Olympic Committee, the Association of Sports Associations, also with the Sport Union of Slovenia, was also organised in the Professional Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Sport, and a draft presented by the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia, as you have already referred. Where are we right now? During the following week, the working group shall meet at its 10th meeting in order to definitively round up the still open issues that have remained on the basis of this working paper of the new law proposal and, as soon as this part is also harmonised, we shall, of course, refer it to public hearing as soon as possible. I agree that it is time for us to gradually open this discussion and also to come to a new law on sport. As far as the emphasis itself is concerned, which you have already identified. The law itself provides a slightly more precise definition of the national sport programme, i.e. the content, method of adoption, method of implementation, method of reporting; also, of course, how to approach the implementation plan of the national sport programme; it deals with the way of the annual local level programme; it also, of course, with the Sports Foundation. However, I think that what we will still have to coordinate or, of course, also have a final discussion, the training programmes, the way in which training is carried out and, of course, the verification of these trainings. We speak not only from the point of view of individual sports sectors, but, of course, a comprehensive model and implementation, also on the basis of verification, i.e. certificates of competence. The law also discusses national colors, the unification of colors and, of course, the professional work, what should be included in the planning, implementation, monitoring, evaluation of the exercise process and, of course, the competences of individual bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u280	Mr. Tomaž Lisec, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u281	Thank you for a rather comprehensive answer. I want to know a few more things. I've mentioned some of them before, and you may have forgotten, so I hope the rest of the time is enough to answer. What about the financial structure of the law? What about the Sports Department? Whether it is something completely new or it is, as I have already said, the Nordic centre of Planica, because it is also defined by these articles regarding the institution in particular. That's what I'm interested in. I am interested in the role of local sports associations in this law, especially because all of us who are also locally involved in the operation – I myself have been the president of the Sport Committee in our municipality for 8 years – we know that we have always had problems with the adoption of the annual sport programme. I know that for at least the last 3, 4 years we have been very active in saying that when there is a new sport, we will probably have some new problems again, because more than once there is an inspection and she said that everything in this annual sports plan is not right. At this stage, I am also interested in how, by categorizing how this defines a new law and ultimately, whether you believe or hope that this law will get the green light of Parliament there by September, and I am asking this because not only the state, when it adopts the budget, but also the local communities, when they adopt budgets, those who put something else on sport, also put something through these local sports programmes and then even more easily start the calls, but not that the calls of June 2016 will be made for the whole year, because then those who are the main actors of this law will be clubs, societies, and sports officials, once again half a year, waiting for what the law is, what the law is and so on. In short, I want the law to come to public hearing as soon as possible and also to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u282	Answers Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u283	Thank you very much. I will not be able to answer all the questions very precisely, but I am sure that the proposal that will come to public hearing also answers all the points that you have now raised, particularly as regards financial evaluation, will, of course, be part of identifying the financial impact on implementation itself in accordance with the national sport programme. As far as Planica is concerned, you know that representatives have also been involved in the legal treatment itself, as regards the categorisation of sport and the verifications themselves, this is a part that is also linked to further training and seeks to follow the National Programme of Sport in 2014-2023. All these very precise answers, therefore, are the very draft or version that we are now hoping to bring to a final alignment in the coming week and, as your suggestion has already been, we will send it to public hearing as soon as possible. I would very much like to have in the autumn the final steps that will then also be planning all the organisations, and these are much within the sport, of course much easier and, of course, even more effective for next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u284	Now Dr Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance and Minister of the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen, who is justifiably absent, will be asked by Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u285	Thank you very much. In the case of transfer of the ownership of an economic company which has a national or municipal concession, it is also necessary to agree with the concessionaire to transfer the concession to the new concessionaire. Such an event is certainly an opportunity to verify the concession conditions and, of course, the duties in favour of the candidate. This is not possible, of course, if the concessional act is drafted in the detriment of the candidate and such an option is excluded in advance. That's why I'm asking you the following questions. In the case of the transfer of ownership of the Brewery Union, has the water-produced candidate for the production of beer issued an agreement for the transfer of the concession, and if, who has issued and signed this act, has improved the concession conditions and where has this act been publicly published since it is undoubtedly public information? When transferring the ownership of the Pivovarna Laško water supply contingent, has it issued an agreement on the transfer of the concession, and the same as before, if, who issued and signed the act, has improved the concession conditions and where has this act been publicly published? And thirdly, how was the transfer of concession rights for the use of water resources regulated to new owners of the Radenska, Kolinska and Pivovarna Union? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u286	Dr. Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, responds.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Hanžek, honourable Member. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Finance and the only representative of these two ministers cannot comment on this particular case, since the concession or water permit under the Water Act and the concessional act is issued by the Ministry of the Environment and the room for the use of the water source for the production of drinks or beer. In the case of a concession for the management of the water supply or the supply of drinking water, the concession was granted on the basis of a municipal decree, under the Law on Local Self-Government and the concessional act signed by the mayor. A more general response to concessions. First, transfer the ownership of the company. The ownership of undertakings shall be transferred under the Companies Act, the Register of Justice Act and the Regulation on the Registration of Companies and Other Legal Persons in the Register of Justice. In doing so, it is important to note that, with the change of owners, the legal entity remains the same. The mother code and the tax number are the same and, as such, continue to operate, since the latter does not depend on ownership. So his legal personality doesn't change. In view of the above, it is not a transfer of concession or water licence from one legal person to another, as the legal person, the concessionaire, remains the same. Concession contracts or concessionary acts in the form of regulations of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of water do not contain a notification clause or the necessary agreement for the continuation of the concessional relationship of the concessionaire if the ownership changes, since the latter does not affect the legal status of the concessionaire. These clauses, however, appear in contracts where a special or exclusive right is granted to an entity which is owned by a country of 100 % and which has been granted the right on the basis of ownership without invitation to tender. Only in these cases may there be a notification or even a request for the necessary agreement to continue the existence of a concession relationship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u288	Matjaž Hanžek, you have the floor for the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u289	Thank you very much. Minister, I don't think it's too right for me to continue to torture you specifically in these matters, because it's not just, I admit, absolutely your area, so I'd like to ask the Ministry representative to answer at the next meeting who's deeper into this. In particular, I am interested in the concessions of the Radenska, Kolinske, Pivovarne Union, as was done in these cases. What you've said in general is more or less well known. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u290	Then, at the next meeting, the Minister will answer with as much time as he has left, within these five minutes, and then we will continue. Now she's going to be the Minister of Culture of Mag. Juliani Bizjak Mlakar questioned Mr Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u291	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished ministers, especially distinguished Minister Juliana Bizjak Mlakar! The draft amendment to the Media Act, which is currently under public debate in Article 1, provides that the responsible editor must establish rules for the selection and inclusion of comments and publish them publicly. A comment that would not comply with these rules should be withdrawn as soon as possible. The aim of this kind of increase in the responsibility of online media editors is to limit hate speech. In our Desus Group, we are, of course, absolutely for the elimination of the hate speech or have zero tolerance for it. Of course, we support the changes or efforts that are taking place in this direction. In the media, however, we have seen that the amendment is also supported by the Office of the Ombudsman. They estimate that the proposal is being made in the direction of recommendations to limit the hate speech that the Ombudsman has already given several times. At the same time, it is also worth noting the fear expressed by the information officer that the media will reject comments out of caution, fear, fear, and the imposition of fines that are not the least. I therefore believe that these changes need to be addressed with particular caution. Madam Minister, I would like to know what the purpose of the proposed provisions on the increased responsibility of the editor of the online media is and what is the opinion of the Ministry or your personal opinion on the concerns of the information officer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u292	The Minister of Culture Mag is in charge. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u293	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Dear Member, Mr Uroš Prikl, I thank you very much for the question. Indeed, as of 22 May 2015, a draft law on amendments and supplements to the Media Act has been published on the websites of the Ministry and E-Democracy with a view to conducting a transparent public debate within a period of one month. Nevertheless, in recent days a number of interpretations have emerged in the media area regarding the published draft bill, based solely on assumptions and assumptions. The draft law, as you said, provides, inter alia, a new solution in article 18 of the current law, under which the responsible media editor would also be responsible for the content of comments and other audio-visual material by readers, listeners and viewers. According to the proposal, the responsible editor should establish rules for the selection and inclusion of comments and publish them publicly. A comment that would not comply with published rules should be withdrawn as soon as possible. The Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia has basically supported the proposal of the Ministry of Culture regarding the regulation of hate speech. The proposal goes in the direction of recommendations to limit the hate speech that the Ombudsman has already given several times in his annual reports and has supported the National Assembly. As can be seen from the explanation of the law, such a proposal is also in line with the Resolution on the National Programme for the Prevention and Suppression of Crime for the period 2012-2016. Such a proposal is also based on a number of international treaties and other documents which speak of the obligation of States to limit the spread of hatred and intolerance in the public. Special attention has been paid in recent times to the dissemination of hostile content over the Internet. Especially since hate speech is one of the emerging forms of discrimination, the Council of Europe Commission to Combat Racism and Discrimination is preparing a new general recommendation, number 15, on combating hate speech. Ms Natasa Pirc Musar, who refused to mention the information officer who wrote in public that such solutions could stifle the freedom of the press and expression and even point out their alleged non-compliance with European Union law, also provided comments. She wrote that "the defence of the boundless freedom of expression from the point of view of the public's response is safe and attractive, perhaps there is no need to put it specifically. The public is significantly less prepared to adopt rules whereby different rights and interests should be balanced. This is precisely the purpose of the work of the News of the Media Law, which has been the most widely praised and criticized in the last week." And then it very precisely defines the very grounds for rejecting this statement by the information officer and finally writes that "the amendment of the media law for the above reasons is by no means inconsistent with European Union law, but with a few delays attempts to follow the guidance of the Council of Europe and the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights." Under this document, the Institute for Privacy and Access to Information is also signed by Rosana Lemut Strle and former Ombudsman, Dr. Zdenka Čebašek Travnik. We have received some other similar comments, which will of course all be published on our websites. At the same time, with regard to the statements of the information officer you asked me about, it should be said that there is also an incorrect interpretation of a very short and clear article in which the information officer mistakenly states that the draft law should be subject to a preliminary review of the comments. The draft law clearly lays down the obligation to withdraw contentious comments. You can't ask for the withdrawal of a comment that hasn't been published yet, so that's a clear statement. You'll probably let me continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u294	Mr. Uroš Prikl, you have the floor, you request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u295	Yeah, a little bit, though. I would like to stress once again that I absolutely support and support the efforts in Desus to completely eliminate the hate speech that is truly no place for him anywhere and never. However, we are of the opinion that it is necessary, however, to consider carefully the indications of an information officer who has expressed a kind concern that these provisions may also be potentially imposed censorship or a serious threat to possible freedom of the press or freedom of expression. I wish you, Madam Minister, that this transparent one-month public debate will succeed, as you said, in trying to include as many well-intentioned recommendations as possible from this public debate in the text of the law. I am sure that the success of the Media Act has been ensured, which, according to my broader assessment, brings some other news and positive values to our media space, and I am sure that a step forward is in regulating the media space with us. But, of course, I thank you sincerely for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u296	The word is from the Minister of Culture Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u297	Thank you so much for that. In this work, in order to stifle the freedom of the press and expression that has been pointed out by the information officer, we fully agree with the statements made by the former information officer, Mrs Natasha Pirc Musar, which I have read earlier. At the same time, it is also necessary to comment on the fact that press freedom should be threatened by this new obligation of online editors. In fact, this provision does not apply to print or to printed media at all. We have therefore already invited Mrs Information Commissioner to discuss all possible concerns. It is true, however, that this area of hate speech does not fall within the legal competence of an information officer. It's about the measures. In fact, the legal provisions without measures in the case of infringements are usually not effective. This is also the only reason that virtually all laws also contain provisions on fines and measures, if the law is not respected. That is all that is meant to be done is the fines provided for there. At the same time, of course, I would like to say that I expect that we will be in public debate on a draft law that will take place by 22. 6. 2015, get all the comments that may be elsewhere, what concerns that all the authors of these comments will also try to get if they are more complicated, and on this basis then draw up a final version of the text of the bill. If possible, we will, of course, define these comments, especially those which are focused on greater clarity of the text, if it is also possible to take into account in order to prevent different and wrong interpretations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u298	Now Dr. Vinko Gorenak will ask the Minister of the Interior a question. The spring Györkös Žnidar and the Minister of Justice mag. To Goran Klemenčič, who is both excusedly absent, please also let him know whether he wants a written or oral answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u299	You guessed, clearly, that I want an oral answer at the next meeting, given that both ministers are absent. Of course, my question concerns the Minister of Justice more than the Minister of the Interior, because of this, I already have certain data, since my question concerns the end of 2012, the beginning of 2013 when in Slovenia, for the first time, there were massive and even violent demonstrations. Today, after such a time as has passed since then, however, some of the things I have concluded at the time, that, in particular, the Ljubljana demonstrations have not been — here I mean only the violent part — merely coincidental, but that they have been ordered or even paid. But that's what the data will be about. My question essentially relates to how much and what procedures the police were conducting at the time. In particular, I am interested in the number of criminal charges, the number of indictments filed by judges for offences or criminal courts and any other proceedings carried out by the police. I was particularly interested in the realisation of some of the worst crimes that had occurred at that time. First of all, I'm referring to the invitation to Barbara's trench here in front of the National Assembly, where the perpetrator was identified. This data is relatively much already available, and in the second part I am interested in the realisation of the courts. There, however, at times a person gets a feeling when information drips slowly and when individual cases come to an end that we will have 98 injured police officers, which is a fact, and no abusers. In the opinion of the courts, at least. Many cases are falling in court. What is the real situation, in fact, is my question to the Minister of Justice. So how are these procedures? Some things even go the other way. Finally, I see some complaints and some proceedings against police officers, which I find extremely unusual. I myself in that period, I also have to say very clearly because of the Slovenian public, issued mandatory instructions to the police, which were relatively clear. The use of force in the most extreme case, the most extreme cases where no other means have been able to guarantee public order and peace or prevent crime, is why the police have done so, in my opinion, relatively successfully and solidly. The question, however, is primarily for the Minister of Justice, so I ask for an oral answer at the next meeting, how is the case-law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u300	Mr Andrej Cuz will now raise the question to the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u301	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, the remaining three members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! For several months, either the issue or the topic of volunteer training in peacemaking was, of course, due to the decision we made on the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities 12. 3. 2015 adopted or adopted by a coalition to instruct the competent ministry to prepare an analysis within three months and, of course, specific legal solutions to eliminate volunteer traineeships. The product prepared by the Ministry of Labour has also come into my hands, i.e. the analysis on the good 30 pages, which has not yet been published publicly and has not shown or said anything new. The problem of volunteer traineeships still exists. Today, youth organisations have also responded, saying that the analysis that has been carried out does not mean that it cannot be a basis or a marriage solution and that we are obviously still far from some concrete solutions that we have been discussing since last month. In our parliamentary group, as much as it is in our power as the opposition party, we have proposed three concrete solutions for the abolition of volunteer traineeships. The first is in the framework of the reform of student work and then the amendment of Article 124 of the U.S.R. and then we proposed the Law on measures in the field of traineeships. In the first, i.e. the general debate in the National Assembly on 31 January this year, we can say that there was unanimous support for all Members and Members of the National Assembly and, of course, also went to the second hearing, and then, of course, there was a lot going on, not in my opinion in the National Assembly, but unfortunately in the background, I would not like to talk about it. We are still trying to get the issue of volunteer traineeships to stop the exploitation of young people, I am against the introduction of modern slavery, young people deserve respect, even opportunity and, of course, a decent payment. So, of course, I'm interested in how you comment on your product, the so-called analysis of traineeship issues, and how, of course, you will now act in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u302	The Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Dark is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u303	Mr President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. Thank the Member for the question, a nice greeting to the Members and Members of Parliament. As you have already said, Mr Chuš, we have been working together for quite some time to resolve a problem that we are all aware of and for which we are trying to find the best possible solution. The government's been like that for 11 years. 12. last year, she took note of the information on the state of volunteer traineeship and, at that time, in December, adopted the following conclusions: not to support the conclusion of new voluntary traineeship contracts in the public sector, because she made it clear that this was not admissible; insists on ministries to prepare, as soon as possible, amendments to the sectoral legislation allowing voluntary traineeships and at the same time consider the necessity of carrying out the traineeship; urges ministries to prepare changes to the field laws in order to take into account, for the necessary work experience, the relevant work experience gained outside the working environment; urges the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs to prepare, together with other ministries, a programme of employment or training for first-time job seekers, using the European Social Fund under the Operational Programme for the Implementation of Cohesion Policy for the period 2014-2020. 14. 1. The Group of Members tabled a proposal for a Law on measures in the field of traineeships. The content of your law was mainly the abolition of volunteer traineeships, the preparation of implementation policies, traineeships and exemption from payment, which the Government did not object to. The bill was not supported by youth representatives in the second reading because you did not want to talk, these are Youth Plus, ŠOS, the Youth Council of Slovenia, because they demanded a comprehensive organisation of traineeships and not just the termination of volunteer traineeships. Therefore, a decision was taken on the Committee of the National Assembly on 20.3. that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should, within three months, prepare a comprehensive analysis of the implementation of traineeships for graduates of tertiary education in areas which are mainly carried out in the public administration or in the public sector, in terms of employment opportunities and the need for training and examinations. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs is only the coordinator of the Government's activities, which include all ministries. Of course, we have taken this seriously. It is difficult for you to have an analysis because the latest versions and the Government have not yet accepted, so if you are familiar with the working draft, of course you can comment on it, but it is not yet complete and the government has not yet come to know it. The product is therefore still in the process of being created, but it already has key orisses, where we have called on all competent ministries to identify in particular to carry out a comparative analysis of arrangements in other European countries, proposals in terms of solutions and some interesting proposals in this and in the short term, perhaps in this week, but certainly in the next week, so that we will be in line with the deadlines we have received by the National Assembly, this analysis will be prepared and also proposals for solutions. That's it, thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u304	Mr. Andrej Chuš, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u305	Here. I would also like to say that as soon as this famous decision, which gave the Government three months to prepare the analysis, was adopted on the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs, I myself have asked written questions to all the seventeen members of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Within one month he collected specific data on the number of volunteers in the public sector in the Republic of Slovenia. Now I think that you can also attach this to me by the rest of your colleagues, except for Mrs Katič, who was not a minister at the time, but at the Ministry of Defence, they replied that they had not entered into any contract on volunteering. I agree with you myself that, of course, the solution or some concrete measures in the area of the abolition of volunteering are difficult materials. However, I personally believe that our proposal for a law that we have tabled and was then rejected in the second reading has improved the existing situation that we have today. Indeed, every volunteer trainee who, after that proposal of the law, would no longer do so, we have provided a compensation of 600 euros for travel expenses and lunches, of course, until the Government has prepared concrete solutions. Today, volunteers are working for free, just for travel and lunch, and if today we add a $600 compensation to the transitional provision we have proposed, many young people would be better off and, of course, many young people would appreciate the opportunity they have received. I myself did not want to talk about these so-called youth organisations, because we also met representatives of youth organisations supporting the law on the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons at the time, and they were also full members of the Slovenian Youth Council today. Of course, we all have a bitter taste today that these organizations have acted politically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u306	The Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u307	Otherwise, it was not explicit in this additional part of the question which would have been intended for me, but it was very difficult for me to comment on what and who thought or what and why he acted, but the fact is that at that time the Government, without any calculation, gave a very clear hand to the opposition in preparing this law. The government did not oppose this law, and we said that in the second reading we would be looking for common solutions, especially certain solutions regarding the policy of scholarships and others were not appropriate, amendments were prepared. I find it difficult to comment on politics or not, you may know more about how and what, but the fact was that the purpose was regulation, but there was general opposition, young people were saying that this proposal was not appropriate, and they asked for it to be rejected and for a comprehensive solution to be found. We always say that young people need to be included, listened to and cooperated with, and that is what we did at the time, and this decision was taken by the Committee for the most part. Now it probably doesn't make sense to look for what it was, whether your marriage was good or not. We shook hands, it wasn't the right solution, and now we're moving on. We are working on this in accordance with the decision of the National Assembly and once this analysis has been adopted by the Government, you will, of course, also be informed by Members and Members, because this is the decision of the National Assembly. The real closure of employment opportunities in the public sector is a key issue in terms of traineeships. Once this is resolved, most of the reasons for volunteering in our country will be eliminated in one way or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u308	Mr Andrej Chuš, you have the floor to request that an answer be discussed at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u309	Yeah, of course I do. Whenever we make a concrete proposal, of course, there is a problem with limiting employment in the public sector. In the National Assembly, I said that everyone who chimps the ZUJF and is in the government should suggest that it be abolished, not that they say something, but that they do something completely different. And what did this government do? It extended the validity of the ZUJF. And don't let me sell words like that. And I'm sorry if I'm a little harsh. The amendments proposed by the Government for the second reading of the Law on measures in the field of traineeships were such that if they were adopted they would literally destroy the law. Therefore, it may not be bad at all that what has happened has happened, but the fact is that we have had a good law that improves the current situation, which has good intentions, no political points. Jehovah’s Witnesses, 7 / 15 6. We are discussing the issue of traineeships, and we have been discussing this since the beginning of November last year. And I'm not a politician or an MP to study and analyze or just go to sit down, but I want to sometimes, because usually not what we do. The young plus said that ministers and ministers did not want to adopt them on the subject of regulating volunteer traineeships at all. Two such tables were prepared when they applied to meet the answers. One of them said we don't need to talk to you. Even this dialogue with young people is, in my opinion, just something that is said and taken into account. I will give you my thanks here, Madam Minister, because you are making an effort and paying attention to them, but if you do not take this to your colleagues and colleagues, I think every effort is too great. However, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that we, of course, hold a debate on this subject at the next meeting of the National Assembly. The problem is more pressing, and I think it is right for us to step together and find the best solutions, not give young people some false hope, but on the other hand we do not know what it is and how we will act in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u310	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday 17 June 2015 in the framework of the votes. Now the question will be raised by Mr Tilen Bozič to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u311	Dear Prime Minister and Minister, fellow Members and Members of Parliament, a good evening on my part too! The Markovec tunnel was recently opened on the coast, which, in addition to the positive effects of improved traffic on the coast, also brings a number of problems. In a particularly difficult situation, it places a section where the four-passenger is narrowed to two bands. There have been delays so far, but because of the past smoothing of traffic flows to account for the low flow of coastal road between Koper and Isola, they were not so burdensome for the surrounding population. Here, of course, I have in mind mainly Isolatians and Isolatians who live in the area of the local Jagodje-Dobrava community. This section soon follows the narrowing of the road with an even smaller circular cross, which, by the way, represents a better solution than a classic crossroad, but because of extremely small radio it still excessively reduces traffic flow. Within a few hundred metres, the next intersection, which will also be transformed into a circular intersection in accordance with the agreement between the municipalities and the Ministry as soon as possible and thus ensure safe integration from connected local roads. I am interested in the following things about all of this. What measures aimed at improving the flow of traffic and improving the living conditions of the surrounding population are provided for in accordance with the agreement between the coastal mayors of Izole, Kopra and Piran and the Ministry of Infrastructure in the area of Izola Municipality? What is the timetable for each of the improvements? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u312	Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, responds.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u313	The Honorable President. Dear Member Tillen Christmas, thank you for asking the question! The agreement concluded between the coastal municipalities of Koper, Izola and Piran and the Ministry of Infrastructure is, in my opinion, a very good basis for the integrated treatment of transport problems and, of course, for the implementation of measures that will best regulate transport in this area. I must say that I was actually very pleased that this agreement had taken place because we have actually moved in these efforts to move something forward for the better. The extension of the fast road from Kopra to Izola with a recently opened section, that is, the Markovec tunnel, of course, means that the possibility of stopping at the end of the fast road is being moved from the Kopra area to the Izole area. In order to resolve this problem, two measures are included in the agreement, namely the rehabilitation of the existing Jagoda Circle and the examination of the possibility of a solution to the assembly crossing at the so-called Belvedere site. These are two key points that could be very helpful in reducing potential congestion and improving transport safety in an optimal solution. For the Jagodje Circle, where we have found a technical solution to the increase of the circle with the municipality of Izola, there are in preparation a project task, an implementation plan and a co-financing agreement with the municipality of Izola, because the two legs of this circle represent a municipal road. We are planning to redesign the circle already in July of this year, and with a crossing at Belvedere this year we will explore the possibilities of solving the transport problem with the assembly circle. In short, it is necessary to first determine which solution will be most appropriate and then, depending on the resources available, this assembly circle would also be carried out. In addition, what is important for Isola, we will fulfil the remaining commitments as quickly as possible, notably on the withdrawal of the already adopted State Spatial Plan, which concerns part of the southern road in Isola and hampers development plans. We will also agree in this year on what will be the continuation of activities on both sides of the fast road in this area. Our decision will be reflected through an operational programme that we are preparing separately on the basis of the transport development strategy at this time in our ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u314	Mr Jan Mahnic will now raise the question to the Minister of Defence, Mrs Andreja Katič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u315	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, ministers, ministers! First of all, thank you quickly to Mr Gasperšič for listening to the calls of the local community and all the proposals and finally providing money for the Medna Bridge and the Sorico Road in Sevska Valley. Madam Minister, we have reached some starting points for a new defence law and therefore I have some questions, even though I know you probably haven't escaped well, because you haven't been a minister very long, but still. Here we have received that this new Defence Act will follow some fundamental and legal solutions related to the Resolution on the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Slovenia, which was written in 2010, the Resolution on the General Long-term Development Programme of the Equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2025, which was also written in 2010, the Defence Strategy of the Republic of Slovenia, which was written in 2012. I wonder if, in your opinion, these documents are still relevant, given how the defence system has changed in these five years, especially in a financial material sense, and how the geostrategic situation in the world has changed. Here you have mentioned one particular matter in order to define more precisely the tasks of the Slovenian Army, and I am interested in how this will go, given that the military says that, given the current financial situation of certain tasks under the Defence Act, they will no longer be able to carry out any more. You also wrote that there will be a defined way of establishing military schools. I wonder if he will give the new law a basis for finally getting a military academy in Slovenia. I wonder what this is all about? Will we then receive four general acts, as you wrote here, that the rank of Brigadier will be defined as a general act by a new act. I think it should be this way and that we should reconcile it with Nate, because I think we are the only country that has only three generalities, the other countries have four. The European acquis will also regulate the production, transport and transfer of military weapons, equipment and other defence products. I would like to know what you will do in law, so that we will also be more open in Slovenia to strengthen the military industry. At the beginning of the drafting of the law, however, you have presented problems with the regulation of labour law issues for members of the permanent structure within the public sector and with the decision of the Constitutional Court, and in view of your findings in the assessment of the status of the starting points, that the employment of military employees does not fall within the constitutional material of the type, scope or organisation of defence, I am interested in: Why did you not take this into account when preparing the starting points for a new law, since you placed four on employees' employment issues among the basic principles for the preparation of a defence law proposal of nine that almost half of the legal content in the law in force was in force? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u316	Answers Minister of Defence Andreja Katič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u317	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Mr Mahnic, Commissioner, thank you for the question. Before I go into more specific answers, I would essentially give a broader picture given that we are talking for the first time here in Parliament today about amendments to the Defence Act. At the hearing before the Parliamentary Defence Committee, I announced, as one of the key objectives of my mandate, the modernisation of the legal regime of the defence area, which is certainly the most important one, as a system law. And because of the necessary two-thirds majority, we will seek broad support in the drafting of the new defence law, there is a broad political consensus, as a two-thirds majority of those present are required to adopt this law. And here is also a warning that many of these years have changed, the Defence Act, the last change in 2004, then the basic strategic documents were adopted. And these must all be aligned with the Defence Act. Given that the starting points for amending the law at my arrival at the Ministry have already been prepared by the working group led by the Secretary of State, we have prepared positions, re-evaluated the starting points and decided to first check with the groups of Members, to what extent there is a willingness to support a new law that would take account of those starting points or those areas for which the groups propose to regulate themselves in an appropriate manner. We forwarded the starting points to the parliamentary groups and would like to visit all the parliamentary groups and also check the consensus. If the discussions find that adequate support for the new law will not be possible, we will propose a new law that will try to regulate only the most urgent matters. At the same time, it will also be necessary to amend the Service Act in the Slovenian Army, as the matter which does not belong, as you said, in the Defence Act, should be regulated in the Service Act in the Slovenian Army. As far as the fundamental amendments to the Defence Act are concerned, we would not be able to go into all the details now because only the starting points are in place and a broader consensus for their adoption needs to be found. However, if I list only certain matters, it is said that the basic purpose of the new Defence Act will be to ensure the continued operation and development of the defence system in the long term, taking into account the starting point of Article 124 of the Constitution, to regulate in particular the type, extent and organisation of the defence of the State. Particular attention will be paid to the Slovenian Army and to the specificity of the military profession, with one of the key principles we intend to implement that professional members of the Slovenian Army should not be in a worse position because of this specificity than other public servants. When preparing the law, we intend to pursue the following objectives in particular: to allow for changes in the organisation and functioning of the defence system; to harmonise the basic legal solutions with the long-term development documents you have already listed. As a last resort, this is the 2012 Defence Strategy of the Republic of Slovenia and the 2012 Doctrine of the Military Strategic Reserve and the resolution you yourself mentioned. Enable the continuation of the development of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the collective defence system and update the solutions governing the fundamental issues of the organisation and complementarities of the military and military service. In this part, it is also essentially the answer to whether, in essence, these resolutions also answer modern questions of military defence. Update the area of civil defence and align it with the solutions used by other comparable countries in crisis management and response to various crises. The Chapter governing the professional intelligence, counter-intelligence and security functions of the defence should be updated or updated with a view to clarifying the performance of the tasks and responsibilities, in particular in the area of the security verification of persons, so as to allow for greater legal certainty for all those who are being examined. The Defence Act must be aligned with the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. If, after discussions in the parliamentary groups, we assess that we can expect the necessary support for a new law, we will try to mediate the law in the parliamentary procedure by the end of this year. In fact, if I were to point out what you asked yourself about military schools, there is currently a solution to the inspection decisions regarding further education. With regard to acts, it is too easy to see this change, which is basically just a alignment with what is already being recognized in foreign armies. As for the labour case, I said, what needs to be regulated in the military system, in the Defence Act, will be incorporated into the Defence Act, and everything else will be done simultaneously. [[End of discussion warning sign]] service in the Slovenian Army. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u318	Mr. Jean-Mahnič, you have the floor to request that the answer be completed.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u319	Yes, thank you, Minister, for some answers. I hope you're aware that you're, I think, the fourth Minister in line who promises to change the Defence Act if not fifth after the reception, but no one has ever succeeded. I hope that you will be a little more skilled in this than you are in appointing a new director of the ODS, and I hear that things are getting very complicated. If I have understood you correctly, you are not thinking in the direction of expelling military personnel from the system of public servants, because there are also requirements for this, and I believe that the equation is not reform in this direction at all for an organization such as the military, which is a specific organisation. I also think that you've done things at the wrong end, as I have already said. The resolution on the national security strategy, the resolution on the general long-term development programme, the defence strategy in the Republic of Slovenia – you know, the international environment is very dynamic, and the military usually has to adapt to both internal and external threats, especially external threats. We also see inside, especially as regards natural and other accidents. Here, of course, a step has been taken in the right direction, but I think that we should first try to change those documents that are not the most direct, but they are only drawing up a framework for the country's defence policy, which will then give us the Defence Act. Therefore, it is possible once again: How does this relate to labour law? You answered the rest of my questions. And then: Would it not be possible to consider, even if, for some year, we were to extend the amendment to the Defence Act, because if anything is necessary, we would give novels, as you have already said, that these doctrines and these military documents, which are somehow accommodating and by which the Defence Act is applied?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u320	The Minister for Defence, Mrs Andreja Katič, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u321	Thank you for complementing the question. Maybe just about the public service system. I said that the basics of the Defence Act will be regulated in the Service Act of the Slovenian Army, and so far we have not thought about it. However, it should be taken into account that the working relationship in the Slovenian Army is a fixed-term working relationship, that it has specific working conditions. This should also be taken into account when putting into the system. Thank you for those words: "the courage to prepare for change." I think the time has come for the Slovenian Army to need the Defence Act. If we are to draw up a text, even if this text will serve the Minister for me to continue this work, the Slovenian Army needs a new law, including another system, it needs a new law and it needs to be resolved. If, as part of the debate, and even now, as part of the Alliance, both NATO and the European Union, it appears that the military must be able to organise itself differently, it has been decided that resolutions should be amended in this context, we will also approach that. This year, however, the medium-term defence programme 2015-2020 will have to respond to whether defence is one of the priorities of the Slovenian state. If the trend of falling financial resources for the Slovenian Army is halted, we will be able to in fact draw up a real medium-term defence programme, if not, and in fact we will have to say something here as well. As for the Director of the ODS himself, I have yet to make a proposal, so I do not know that I would have any problems with this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u322	Mr Jan Mahnic, you have the floor to request that the next meeting be held to discuss the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u323	President, I have to say that I was a little concerned when the minister said, if not me, she would serve the minister behind me. I hope he is no longer predicting his resignation or any discharge by the President of the Government. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that we hold a debate. I must say that I am pleased with the Minister's response, not that I suggest, but that I want to help her. I know that it will go to the parliamentary groups and let us now, for example, hold one general debate on this document that we have here. I believe that the Minister from one broader debate will then make matters easier to coordinate with the parliamentary groups, and that we will not have a first debate by the end of the year until the end of the year. Just a little thought. But maybe, well, I see the problem because it goes to these major solutions that you listed here, just to adjust the current situation in terms of finance, material and other means. This means, even though I know that you have said that you will try to choose as many financial resources as possible for the defence and for the military, here is the most cut from all the sources, I fear, here I have read nothing concrete, except in certain definitions or in the outline of the state of defence, and this is very clad up, I am not surprised that some or no see or they do not want to see what that main problem is in our defence system or more specifically in the Slovenian Army if they write such a starting point. Also, in here, for example, with only two sentences, it is mentioned that the situation has changed in terms of the Middle East, Eastern Europe and African countries. Now, I don't know, you've probably all been following, because of the regime in Russia, which is either not bordering, but it's practically already a fascism that is acquiring foreign territory, the United States is planning to send tanks, artillery and other heavy weapons to Eastern Europe, especially to the Baltic States, to provide security or to reassure their allies within the framework of NATO, who feel threatened by Russia. We also had a debate last week on the issue of refugees, and this is also a major security issue. If we write in just one word that they come in because of an unstable environment in Africa, it doesn't say much that I'm not even talking about the Islamic state. I therefore propose that we have a general debate to see if there is any consensus that there is any change, any change that should be made, where we see the army more westernly, unfortunately some more transparent, but let us make this clear once again, it will also be helpful to the Minister and then in further negotiations.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u324	Your proposal was decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday 17 June 2015 in the framework of the votes. Ms Andreja Katič, Minister of Defence, will now ask the question. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u325	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues! It is already clear from the announcement of my question that Minister Andreja Katič is concerned with my question in the area for which you are responsible. I will ask you a question regarding the participation of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the implementation of international military exercises in the Republic of Slovenia. I am aware that participation in international military exercises abroad and at home is also important for members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces. One such training took place last week and ended in Slovenia. There was an international exercise called the Adriatic Impact 2015 and Adriatic Strike 2015. According to the information obtained from your website, about 400 participants from 15 countries and one observer country participated in the exercise. The exercise took place at various locations in Slovenia, supported by a large number of helicopters and aircraft, also with frequent overflights this year. Ladies and gentlemen, please answer the following questions: What importance does the implementation of international military exercises in the Republic of Slovenia have for the Slovenian Army? What was the purpose of the Adriatic Impact 2015 exercise in addition to training? What goals have been achieved through the exercise? What costs have been incurred in this regard? However, in the past, there have been many comments and objections from local communities and the local population in carrying out similar exercises in the media, and I ask you to answer a question that is also related to regulating relations with local communities and landowners: Why did she exercise in several locations, i.e. outside the Slovenian Armed Forces? How were relations with local communities and landowners regulated? So much for once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u326	Answers Minister of Defence Andreja Katič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u327	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Thank you for the question, honourable Member. The Slovenian military is also actively involved in the activities of the Allied through military training processes. To this end, he participates in international military exercises abroad and in the Republic of Slovenia with the armed forces of the Allied States. The essential importance of carrying out international military exercises in the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovenian Army is to maintain and verify its ability to receive and install allied forces in order to establish connectivity with them and to maintain and verify the ability to work together in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The international exercises carried out in our country are generally more rational for the Slovenian Army, as the financial contribution is smaller and is partly recovered through the purchase and supply of participants in the exercise in the local environment. Of course, it is necessary to be aware of the limitations of the Slovenian space and therefore only a limited set of exercises can be carried out in our country, notably a smaller exercise through which the objectives are pursued in certain specialist areas. The Slovenian Army, in cooperation with its allies, has been organizing the Adriatic Strike exercise for the fourth year in a row – Adriatic Strike, 2015, with the aim of regulating air and land forces in planning organisations and implementing close air support under the guidance of United Nations firebenders. The training has already trained certified United Fire Directors, fire platform crews, squad commanders and United Fire Planners. The exercise took place from 31 May to 6 June this year. The United Fire Directors are key to working within the Alliance as they make it possible to use aircraft of all members of the Alliance through established standards. This is very important for Slovenia as a small aviation country. The main objectives of the exercise were to deepen international cooperation in the field of fire guidance training, to verify the operational capabilities and skills of the 15th Military Aviation Regiment and to pursue ambition after the establishment of a certified regional air support school for South-Eastern Europe and the Western Balkans. The cost of exercise is estimated at €80,000. 189 members of foreign troops and over 200 members of the Slovenian Army participated in the exercise. Due to the needs for the diversity of the training area and the knowledge of the entire area of Slovenia, this year's Adriatic impact exercise was also conducted outside military areas, in the vicinity of Sevnica, Murska Sobota, Gotenice and Raduha. We also unloaded Poček’s central training centre and local purchases around Poček, where the most training events are carried out. Each military exercise also acquires quality if it is carried out in wide and geographically diverse areas, in particular because it increases both the complexity and the quality of training. By exercising outside military exercises, archery and Slovenian Army ranges, our army has also come closer to the locals. A presentation of the exercise for the media and the surrounding local community was also prepared at Rakičan Airport in Murska Sobota, and the response was very well received and massive. With the assistance of the competent defence administrations of the Ministry of Defence with landowners, the Slovenian army has agreed to use these facilities, has also held meetings with local communities and all activities to inform the public in a timely manner about activities taking place on different days in different areas. The damage, which is minimal, is estimated at some 100 euros, was described by the Slovenian Army and will also be settled in accordance with the rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u328	The word has magic. Bojana Muršič to request a supplement to the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u329	Thank you very much, Minister, for a very comprehensive answer. Cooperation with the local community is crucial, as you have also stated, which is all your praise. Air traffic overflights are also increased in the exercise of larger military force, and more military equipment movements have also been seen on the roads. Given that we have a tourist season ahead of us, which we all hope will last for a long time to be successful, I would ask you to define yourself: Are international exercises still planned in Slovenia this year? To what extent will the requirements of local communities be taken into account, especially in the Poček area, to limit the implementation of exercises during the tourist season? Thank you very much in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u330	Answers Minister of Defence Andreja Katič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u331	Thank you for that supplementary question. Indeed, there will be another major international military exercise in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia by the end of the year, namely, the main exercise of the Slovenian Armed Forces in 2015, the Immediate Response or the Instant Response 2015. The exercise will take place this year from 9 to 22 September on the Poček range. The purpose of this exercise is to strengthen regional stability, strengthen cooperation with the countries of the Western Balkans and increase and test the ability to work together between the NATO countries and partner countries. A thousand 600 members of the armed forces from nine countries will participate in the exercise. Exercise An immediate response was traditionally implemented in the past in August, as well as last year. In agreement with the local community, however, we moved the exercise to the month of September and thus allowed the tourist season to continue smoothly. At the same time, we will also take advantage of the tourist accommodation in the municipality of Postojna, because it is important to stress that in all international exercises and activities of foreign armed forces in Slovenia there are indirect effects also in the local environment, since the participants are providing the offer from the civil environment, and I am thinking in particular about the trade in shops, in guest shops, in hairdressers and everything else that belongs to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u332	Mr Matjaž Germany will now raise the question to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u333	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Good evening for me, too. Good-bye! As long as we are talking about the deployment of railway infrastructure in Primorska, we are reminded of the second track. But too many times, one small village problem was neglected in the highlands, the Jurje, which has been repeatedly raped in the past by a number of infrastructure interventions that have reduced the quality of life in particular. In recent years, or almost a century ago, rail traffic in this part of Primorska was placed, and the power lines were later electrified, later in the independence of the motorway cross, but this time we are talking about a new installation, for which there is in some ways little clarity to all about what was going on during these periods, and so I am also turning to our Minister of Infrastructure at the request of the local community. In fact, in this very delicate area – why I will also explain delicately – this is mainly a very limited agricultural area, vineyards, fertile agricultural areas, touching in a kilometer away also a very important water source of Klariči, mainly a strategic and sustainable water source for the entire area of Krasa, Brkinov, we must say that in the distance of one km. The sensitivity of this environment is pointed not only by our local community but even by the Doberdob Congregation. Although it is a municipality in the Republic of Slovenia, the Italian municipality in Italy is constantly warning and should also point out that the Intergovernmental Slovenian Italian Commission for the Construction of the new Trieste-Divic has already pointed out this need. In fact, the route envisaged takes place, among other things, in the 70 km lane between the highway and the village of Žirje. The State Spatial Plan for the Construction of the Trst-Divič Railway has taken care of the great dissatisfaction of the local community. At the same time, it is not possible to cross the Italian side's point of view, which, according to the expected traffic, notes that the new route is not necessary until 2030, in order to ensure that the existing border is already upgraded on the other side of the state border. I ask you, Minister Gasperšič: At what stage is the State Spatial Plan based on the construction of the Trst-Divac railway? What measures does the Ministry of Infrastructure intend to take in this regard? Is there any reflection of the Ministry of Infrastructure on the possibility of upgrading the railway, while on the other hand, we already have a long-standing situation with regard to the required second track? What is the ratio of both projects to the priority of their construction? Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u334	The Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Peter Gasperšič, responds.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u335	Thank you so much for saying that. Commissioner Matjaž Germany, in connection with the preparation of the State Spatial Plan for the new route, the railway line between the Divisco and Trieste can say that the procedure itself is now in the stage of drawing up views on the comment from the public decommissioning that was carried out between the end of April and the end of May. Following the conclusion of the comments, a proposal for a State Spatial Plan will then be drawn up and the adoption of a regulation on this State Spatial Plan is foreseen by the end of this year. In accordance with the arrangements of the last meeting of the mixed Slovenian-Italian Commission for the new route Trst-Divič in October 2014, held in Trieste, both sides agreed and committed to complete activity II following the current decision of the European Commission on co-financing of the project, in view of the activities already carried out, namely that they would complete the stage of conceptual planning and placement in the area in accordance with the decision taken. In addition, both parties have decided that, in view of current traffic forecasts — what you have already mentioned in the question itself — and the anticipated need to build a new route only after 2030, they will not continue to produce further project documentation to obtain a building permit. However, they committed themselves to joining activities to upgrade the existing route, so that the existing track will meet the conditions of interoperability and technical requirements for a core trans-European network by 2030. By the end of 2015, both parties intend to develop a study on the variants of the existing line under the current European Commission decision on co-financing of this project, namely the Trieste-Divič line, and thus I am now talking about upgrading the line itself. The study will provide answers for optimal upgrades. It will identify the necessary measures to ensure that the existing track is sufficient by 2030 to meet these expectations of transport burdens and the requirements for the trans-European network. A public order to produce this study variants, upgrading the existing line will be published in a short time. The production of project documentation is then foreseen for the period 2016-2020 and the upgrade itself after 2020. In the light of all the above, the said route does not in any case affect the hands and priorities associated with the construction of the second rail track at the Koper-Divač section. However, from the comments made during the public segment, the new routes also appear to be the most opposed to the real population of the village of Žirje. In fact, the route is the closest to this settlement, and a great deal of attention has already been given to this part of the route at the planning stage. The route is designed to pass the settlement in a covered trench just off the highway. This would provide maximum protection for the village against negative impacts, especially the noise effects. All construction traffic is planned on the north side of the highway by completely avoiding the village of Žirje, further anti-group measures are envisaged to protect the settlement from both the noise from the railway and the highway. The construction technology itself will be determined in the phases of further design, in accordance with all the protection requirements and in order to minimise the impact on the surrounding population and facilities. However, the building, which will be overloaded by noise at the time of construction and otherwise foreseen for demolition, will also be maintained if the inhabitants agree to move at the time of construction. The inhabitants of the Jury also suggest that the route should take place on the north side, but I must say that in this case the route should be substantially raised due to crossing the highway, which would result in a greater impact of the noise, including the highway itself, on the settlement, and the route would also be more visually exposed. Maybe so much for that first part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u336	Mr Matjaž German, you have the floor to request a supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u337	Thank you, President, for your word. Minister Gaszperšič, we are both aware that it will be difficult to resolve this problem in a few minutes. We have more questions than answers, but I'm just going to try to speed up, especially to satisfy the wishes of the local community in better communication, in better dialogue. That's why I want to know: When will the DNP documentation preparers take into account the comments of the locals most affected by the fast rail? Is the opinion of these bureaucrats really worth so little? Above all, here is the concern of those who, according to certain projections, will be forced to move out. Let me ask you two more questions: Why did the Government of the Republic of Slovenia not take advantage of the provisions of the EspO Convention, which would require, within 60 days, detailed assessments of the effects of the route on the environment, in particular in view of the fact that the route on the Italian side is very close to the water cover of Klaric, from which the whole of Kras is supplied via the Brest water pipeline? Can you answer that for me, please? What is the strategic relationship between the priorities of the construction of the second track of the Divača-Koper and the construction of the Trieste-Divača? And the last question, realizing that the track might be built in the far future: Why a route that is most harmful to the population has been chosen – at least this is their opinion Do you have any communication with the local community in the near future? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u338	Thank you very much. Mr Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u339	Thank you very much. In the introduction, you also mentioned the issue of the water source Klariči, and you also highlighted this further. In this regard, I can say that the route actually takes place near this water source, but it must be said that this is actually on the other side of the border, namely the Ronke-Trist section, i.e. on the Italian side, and in this regard, and thus in accordance with the provisions of the EEA Convention on Cooperation in Environmental Impact Assessments, the Slovenian side has also included itself in this cross-border environmental assessment process of that section and has made its comments on this section. The process of this environmental impact assessment in this part is not yet completed in this section, so we also expect the Italian side to respond. So much is possible on this issue of water source Klariči and cooperation under the EspO Convention. Otherwise, I can assure you that we have already listened to the locals and their positions and the issues they are putting forward in the context of the preparation of the responses to these comments, to find certain solutions or to show why these solutions, which we know in the DNA, are actually moving away for 10 years or more, will be shown in short that these impacts will be as small as possible. Even as I mentioned earlier that impact on the building, which would have been overloaded by noise at the time of construction and for which the demolition was originally envisaged, there is a possibility that the facility would be preserved if the inhabitants were prepared to move to another location during construction. In short, I hope and count, and I will also commit myself to running this VAT in a spirit of cooperation and therefore to coordinating all these opinions. At a certain point, however, this matter will also have to be concluded, and I hope that the people will be as satisfied with the solutions proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u340	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. Mr Andrej Chus will ask the Minister of Culture mag. Juliani Bizjak Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u341	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice-President, so another time. Madam Minister, Mrs Bizjak Mlakar. As a Ptujcan myself, I must say that I am aware of culture, cultural heritage and, of course, I am very proud of it. If I go a little wider to my neighbouring municipalities, the Municipality of Ptuj, we have Slovenian Versailles in Dornava, we go to Gorišnica, we have Dominkov's homestead and so on. This time, however, I decided to ask an oral question concerning the vacant character of the Korant, some, as Mr Aleš Gačnik says, also say the Korent or the Hora, and there are still some titles, but given that I have been monitoring the efforts of a particular part of civil society for several years in the special recognition of the Koran as a particular cultural heritage, of course I have decided to ask you an oral question. We also had e-mail correspondence and I have to thank you for your response. The first official records of the Koran were already in Markovska chronicle in 1887. The Ptuj area was already on the path of the entry of cultural desert heritage on Unecs's list of intangible heritage in 2013. It should also be added that since 2012, the Korantes have also been registered in the Register of Living Cultural Heritage. Now, of course, the next important step is to declare the crown a living masterpiece of national importance. I myself have been informed that you or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Culture at the beginning of this year, at least as published in the proposal, have been presented a draft proposal for the protection of the Korant. This, of course, consisted of a special association consisting of thirty groups of Korantes from the lower Podravje, both the Municipality of Ptuj, the Slovenian Mountains and, of course, Haloz. I want to know: What are the following procedures for enrolling the Korant in Unesc's list of cultural heritage? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u342	Thank you very much. The word is from the Minister of Culture, Mrs Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u343	Thank you very much. I am always pleased to see that the Member is particularly aware of the value of cultural heritage, which is finally also a priority at the level of the European Union. So I hope that there is still a great deal of such Members, and I am pleased to answer this question of yours. Where this process, which has really been going on since 2012, has stopped with regard to the proclamation of a living masterpiece of national importance, it was, in fact, that at that public hearing that was convened in February this year, that somehow those who bear a living heritage were not present. However, if these institutions are now registered, as I understand from your statement, then there will be no obstacles to this public debate and, of course, the Ministry of Culture, together with the Life Heritage Protection Coordinator, will re-engage the public debate. I was told at the Directorate that this would be brief, so I believe it will then move faster. The aim of the public debate is to prevent any change in the scheme, since they are, of course, essential agents of this heritage and also their opinion, so it can also be written in writing, given in a public debate. Issues continue to take place in accordance with Article 20 of the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage and also in accordance with the procedure which is also on our websites, where activities are listed for the registration of intangible cultural heritage in the Register of Living Heritage. According to Article 20, a monument of national importance, a living masterpiece of national importance is dissolved by a government act. A proposal for a declaration shall be prepared by the coordinator and a decree on the declaration shall be drawn up by the Ministry of Culture. The Ministry of Culture has already prepared this decree, it has already been put into public debate, and as far as I know, there have been no specific comments on what means that there will be no obstacle on this side. Then this decree shall be adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on a proposal from the Ministry of Culture. The procedure for declaring a living masterpiece, i.e. the whole process, is expected to last for at least two months, namely seven points of this procedure. First, the coordinator, at his own discretion or at the initiative, sends a proposal to declare a living masterpiece of national importance to the Ministry of Culture, then the Ministry of Culture, in cooperation with the coordinator, prepares a decree. We've done this before. Then, under point 3, a notification shall be made of the proposal for a declaration and the notification shall normally be made in the form of a public hearing. We're still missing this. We still have to do this. The draft decree is then published on the websites of the Ministry of Culture, Coordinator and the E-Democracy portal. The time limit and address for sending comments shall be set, from 10 days to one month. The coordinator shall also inform the institutions of the publication. A public hearing shall be carried out, led by the coordinator with the assistance of the Ministry of Culture. It can be carried out in cooperation with the local community. Operators shall be invited to the hearing. The coordinator shall draw up a response to the comments and forward it to those who have sent the comments. The Ministry of Culture, in cooperation with the coordinator, shall draw up a final proposal for a decree and submit a proposal for a decree for interdepartmental coordination and then for consideration to the Government. The Government shall adopt the decree published in the Official Journal and the decree shall, as a rule, enter into force on the day following its publication. Then, of course, the following steps are taken concerning the nomination for a representative list of the immaterial cultural heritage of mankind. These steps take place in the following format. First an interdisciplinary working group is formed, then the prescribed form has to be completed, but this is, as it is said, the task of professional services, here is no longer the task of the public that they themselves should act in this way [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u344	Mr. Andrej Chuš, you have the floor to request an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u345	Madam Minister, I thank you for your guidance and to state your situation as it is. I myself want to develop culture and cultural heritage, in particular to develop the place and environment from which I come, to develop and support culture, the activities of culture and, consequently, to open up new jobs. At the same time, I think that such projects, of course, also strengthen national consciousness. Everywhere in the world I've gone in the past in my life, they've sold us everything we can, even the things we have at home in the drawer, let's say they have no value. And I think we also have a lot of reserves and potential in the area of culture in Slovenia. Rather than looking at how we could market the cultural heritage that has been given to us, exploit our potentials, we might also sometimes talk about what it is called, whether it is a Koran or a Koran, and, of course, I would also like to redirect the debate to more important content for the future. I also thank, of course, for the information on public hearing that took place this February. I'm aware of the problem that has arisen. And if you need any help, of course, I am willing to help, perhaps it would not be bad to refer to this topic to a thematic meeting of the Committee on Culture, which would take place somewhere in the lower Podravje or in Markovci or in the Municipality of Ptuj. In conclusion, I would like to ask one question, namely, some representatives and members of the said Kurent Associations, because some non-life restrictions would arise in the case of the enrollment of the Korant in the list of the world cultural heritage. I'm not aware of this myself, but I would still like to know about the continuation of the procedure: Are these concerns justified or not? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u346	Thank you very much. The word is from the Minister of Culture, Mrs Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u347	Yes, of course, what follows this entry into Unesc's list of intangible heritage is also, of course, a regular periodic report to Unesco's Committee on the Insubstantial Heritage of the Preservation and Preservation and Preservation of the Firsts and its Beneficiaries, which resulted in some masterpiece of intangible national heritage being registered on Unesc's World Heritage List. In the event that the nominations for the above-mentioned elements were not respected, which were simply recognised as the reason for the entry into Unesc's world list, a proposal could, of course, be made to delete this heritage from the prestigious Unesc list. And, of course, there is a danger that everything connected with curating will be uncritically and uncontrolledly adapted to the wishes of modern consumer time. So, of course, this can interfere with the registration of an inheritance. However, I am very pleased with your proposals, and I fully agree with you that we have a lot of heritage that we could devote to, which we could also appropriately include in cultural tourism and we would all have some of it. Thus, national consciousness in Slovenia is extremely low. I have to tell you that I was surprised when I visited a public institution when I was accepted by the rector of that institution that we were finally funding, but then he handed me over to his co-worker, that she began to explain to me in English what was actually going on in that public office. So I can say that as far as our national consciousness is concerned, and not only in this case, of course, it is far too low right now. This is probably also the reason that we need those quotas that we are now trying to get into shape to be used for the speech of the Slovenian language. In short, in other countries, for example, the Italian minister told me that they do not need quotas because the Italians have such a developed national consciousness that Italian will not be subordinated to another language, and unfortunately that is not the case with us. So, of course, it is extremely important that we be aware of this uniqueness, this cultural diversity. Cultural diversity is protected within the European Union by the Convention. When we meet the ministers in Brussels, everyone speaks his own language out of respect for another culture. So much for your knowledge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u348	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mahnic has the floor to ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, mag. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u349	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues, distinguished Mr. Secretary! There is a lot of talk in the public and also in this House about what we eat, how we eat. I have to say that I come from the countryside, and there are the words eco, it's been kind of pimping. The main thing is that the food is locally produced, that it is from a local provider, from a local farmer. I believe that we should also promote as much food as possible and introduce them into schools and schools. Mr Minister, you probably know, since you were then a minister, at the end of January you evaluated the survey on short chains in Slovenian kindergartens and schools and found that they ordered more local and more organic food. This is shown by the answers 248 elementary schools and 40 kindergartens. In 211 schools and kindergartens, local food and food are of great importance. A good third of schools and kindergartens, that is 36% in the procurement of food, participate with agri-economic institutions or advisory services, 18% with regional development agencies and local agencies, 11% with municipalities and 26% with other partners. The recommendations for the public procurement of food adopted by you in October 2013 account for 93% of schools and kindergartens. Of those who know these recommendations, about 59% have also been very helpful. The amendment of Article 14 of the Public Procurement Act for the last two years also allows for greater procurement of local food and food. Public authorities have also asked more details about the ordering of food before and after the implementation of this amendment. This change was increased by 8.6% by local food and food. Before it was 30.1 and now 38.7. It is also encouraging that it has more eco-innovated Slovenian origin, before the amendment of legislation, for example, it amounted to 6.4% and 13% after it was amended. That's why I'm asking you: Although some of your actions have already yielded positive results, how would you further strengthen to relieve some of the more bureaucratic, administrative and school obstacles, such as giving a more free way to order locally produced food from local farms? We know that now it is just some yogurts, fruits, vegetables, something else has to be eco, which is, of course, a little more expensive to go not only schools, kindergartens, and other public institutions eat as much locally produced food as possible, not just vegetables and fruits and dairy products, but also meat and other foods. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u350	Thank you very much. Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mag. Dean Jedhan will give an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u351	Thank you, Madam President, and thank you, Mr Member, for the question. You yourself have mentioned a number of measures that I have been taking, not just since 2011, before. A major leap was the amendment of the Public Procurement Act, which introduced, I think, in 2007, the principle of positive discrimination. This is one of the principles that Europe is allowed, and since then it has been weak 10%, I think, as it was years ago, we are approaching 40% in primary schools right now. Here I would also like to say that it is not just primary schools, it is also Slovenian hospitals, military facilities and so on. By the way, as information, a short time ago we agreed to meet operationally again with directors and buyers in Slovenian hospitals, showing them a similar path as at 13 regional meetings concerning primary schools and other public institutions. Why don't we jump now from this low 40% to 70%? The reasons are something. The important reason is also that public institutions have multi-annual contracts and cannot terminate them immediately, but these contracts are being phased out slowly. The second reason is that the restriction still exists in the Public Procurement Act. Do you know, Mr. Member, about this marriage? Now, basically, a change is being prepared. This means that, I think, by April 2016, the change due to European change must be in place. This change is one that goes hand in hand, as this breadth is further increased, as much as it can order directly through negotiations without public procurement. Then the following, which is important, is increasingly organised by the tenderers. In fact, there was something at the beginning of these activities, including complaints by the heads of public institutions that when they want to order, there is simply no permanent offer on the other hand. To public institutions, nothing means an offer that is, for example, only present at the height of the season. Public institutions need a certain amount of quality local food all the time. But it's moving fast here, too. What's in front of us now is two more. First, in the following year we introduce a special label in Slovenia The chosen quality, which will apply to all products that will go into this system. This system will include milk and milk products in the first phase. This is where the Slovenian producers came together. Very quickly following vegetables or vegetables, very quickly, I believe that meat and meat products as well. As an additional possibility for more rapid entry into public institutions, the Regulation on additional activities on farms is also important. This Regulation has now been sent to the Government for interdepartmental coordination. It was and is closed in public debate. The Supplementary Activities Regulation – which currently has 16 000 farms with already registered complementary activities – and this Regulation means in practice for farms also engaged in the production of yogurts, dairy products of other varieties or meat products will bring significantly less paperwork for these farms. So, there will be no more copying to the tables, the primary document will apply, which means that the farm will have more time available to sell its products. In fact, many people do not know that Slovenian farms and many others can produce good, quality products, but today a good and quality product can even be more difficult to sell, to bring to the customer than to produce. And that is why it is important to reduce bureaucratic barriers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u352	Thank you very much. Mr. Jean-Mahnič, you have the floor to request that the answer be completed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u353	Thank you for your word. Thank you for your specific answers, Mr. Minister. We have seen here from these surveys that these recommendations for public food procurement have helped as much as 95% of primary schools. I want to know: Will you prepare some new things? It is also likely that certain positive properties and results will bring this collected quality of the brand. For example, I know, in our local settings, that some are already connecting to local brands, so that is one congregation, more municipality, and then these schools and institutions are easier to buy there. But I know, I believe that the problem is, it is easier to order some elementary school in the countryside when virtually everyone knows each other than some public institution here in Ljubljana, some locally produced food. Here I found another survey or questionnaire on how and to what extent local people are included in the food chain. We asked 20 people from various Slovenian places on the primary school segment, and here they are, as I have already said, mainly fruits, vegetables and yogurts, which are mainly on the menu of elementary school meals, but they have highlighted the opportunity or obstacle to public invitations. In the public procurement system it is welcome because it is possible to penetrate local producers among school food providers, for example, in practice this means that apples would be ordered from several different local producers and thus have better quality food. [[…]] [[…]] The main obstacle to the procurement of food by local producers is, according to the food organisers questioned, the rationalisation of costs or resources available to them in individual schools. For example, snacks and lunches are subject exclusively to the criteria of local, organically produced food several times a year, even though this means a financial outage. Instead of being unorganic, only locally produced food for individual farmers and, of course, they are running out of money, I wonder if there are any measures in this direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u354	Thank you very much. The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magi Food has the floor. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u355	Thank you, Madam President. Perhaps the important measure we are already implementing is the school fruit scheme. This measure is also good because an important part of the money comes from the European Union and allows us to bring fruit to children, which is not normal, and in quantities, so that it is accessible to all and is free of charge for children. We are now trying to prepare a similar simple measure of milk and milk products. This has not been overly successful so far, because of this Slovenian system, when we have co-financing of different rates by parents, and this actually causes a serious bureaucratic obstacle. Here is our proposal, but we need to harmonise this in the European Union in order to simply follow a simple scheme, as we do for fruit. We may also pay attention to the Green Public Procurement Regulation, which has allowed us to see 10% of the group as organic or as preparations for organic procurement. I hope that we will also bring 'chosen quality' into this Regulation. I know that sometimes experts, including economists, ask whether we really need to order locally because there is a possible euro, a cent more expensive that meal for a child. And I personally, as the Minister of Food of Slovenia, find this inappropriate question when it comes to the health of our children, cannot be one euro, a cent of that limit, or buy locally, which is usually fresher, has more quality substances than imported, which is still safe, but not so quality and cannot be so part of a healthy diet for children. And I want all parents to understand that it is more possible to save on the cost of phone impulses and a little less on food for their children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u356	Thank you very much. Dr Petr Gasperšić will ask the Minister of Infrastructure Matjaž Hanžek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u357	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, from the public debate on the energy concept of Slovenia in the National Assembly in January this year, the public opinion on the preparation and construction of the second block of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant is increasingly softened. The truth is that this campaign began a long time ago by writing a consultation referendum on the subject in the coalition contract of government parties. Therefore, public opinion interventions, such as school youth magazines, energy experience parks in Kršek under the auspices of Gen, Internet public research, which, among other things, ask whether electricity seems to be an appropriate export article and so on. Electricity exports are like the export of a log. We already understand the latter as economic damage. It exports electricity, nuclear or fossil origin when the waste remains at home and the purest form of energy goes abroad, but not yet. Since I have some experience with the events related to Block 6 of the TEŠ, I can see clearly the indication of a repetition of the pattern of forced investment. The second block of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant is not found in any act that would be part of the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, as is the case with TŠ 6. We have already spent more than €15 million on various studies, and we will soon be at the limit of €20 million, which was the border for which Mr Borut Pahor, the then Prime Minister of the Government, said that there is too much money invested in the project to break it. That's why I'm asking you: Why not immediately stop all expenditure related to the preparation of the second block of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant until they adopt in our legal order the relevant social acts for the basis of this investment? Have the current financial expenditure of more than €15 million been spent in line with public procurement legislation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u358	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u359	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Dear Member, thank you for the question as well. I understand the concern that, whatever happens with regard to energy investments will be carried out properly and appropriately, which we are also working on in our ministry. However, my answer to the questions raised in connection with the construction or expenditure carried out in connection with the Krška Nuclear Power Plant will probably not be most satisfactory for you. In particular, the GEN energy, a limited liability company, is a subsidiary in the GEN group and is 100 % owned by the country. In accordance with the Company Act, this company also has a supervisory council and its assembly. These two bodies confirm the company's strategic documents and development plans. The GEN Assembly represents SDH, which is responsible for the management of companies owned by the Republic of Slovenia, and only the Ministry of Infrastructure, in accordance with the legal provisions in the area of capital management of companies in both the de facto and the de jure, does not have the possibility to influence the operation of a company managed by SDH, so I cannot provide in essence more detailed answers to your questions. While SDH must, in the framework of its competences, seek, inter alia, to create conditions that will allow for the greatest increase in value for owners while preventing excessive risks. In this light, he must also guide his policy of directing the social assemblies. Otherwise, the GEN shall carry out its activities on the basis of the following documents and conclusions of the supervisory authorities. I will give you three key documents: there is an Eles gene plan in October 2005, at which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia agreed at its 52nd regular meeting, 7. 12. 2005. Then there is the amendment to the Energy Development Plan of June 2008, which was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at its 181st regular meeting, on 1. Ten. 2008 Finally, here is the TEN development plan for the period 2015-2019, with a view to May 2014 2024, which SDH adopted as the GEN Assembly at its 5th regular meeting, on 4 August 2014. In this way, GEN is carrying out activities for the decision-making process on the possible construction of the nuclear power plant 2 project, which is analysed in accordance with the strategic direction of the company. GEN also carried out analyses and assessments of the eligibility and feasibility of all available technologies for the purpose of a comprehensive assessment of future production electricity. These are the frameworks in which GEN energy works. I can also say that, as part of the preparation of the energy concept of Slovenia, we will also outline these visions of the development of Slovenian energy, which, of course, will also need to be defined by whether we want to develop low-carbon and non-carbon energy in Slovenia or if we want to take another path that might increase this carbon footprint. This is a vision of energy development by 2055, i.e. for the next forty years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u360	Matjaž Hanžek, you have the floor to request a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u361	Mr. Secretary, of course, you answered correctly that I will not be satisfied with anything. On the one hand, there is a government that doesn't care whether we build a nuclear plant or not, and it leaves it to a company or a group of companies or whatever it says, who has plans, how it will build an object that will eventually be worth five billion. The exact same thing happened to TER 6. One company, a subsidiary of a state-owned company, in 100% of state-owned property, did something all the time, the government did not do it because it worked under its internal rules, until, of course, it ran out of $200,000 first, then half a billion, and, of course, this house also jumped, otherwise in its second composition, and helped to get these half a billion. And the same now. I am sure that the Government must have a strategy before a subordinate firm can start developing and investing in a nuclear power plant. Here they say, they invest in their own way, now we are already twenty million, and we will one day adopt a strategy for the development of Slovenia, energy development. The exact same story as before TES, from some companies forced government decision, where, of course, so much money will be spent that no one will be able to be the same again: Too bad, we must continue. [[…]] I've heard that now, I don't know if that's exactly what you're going to know, you've already ordered the third earthquake threat study because the first two aren't real. And that's how long they're going to be, and that's about how money's going to be invested in this third study, because two aren't real and so on. Of course, I cannot agree with this answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u362	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Peter Gasperšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u363	Thank you very much. I'm saying, all I can say is that we'll probably have to slowly get used to business decisions being made by someone other than the government. And this second one was set up for this, precisely defined purpose, this is the Slovenian State Holding. Of course, I agree that the strategic definitions where Slovenian energy should go, where it should go, are accepted in the Government. And, as it is said, this energy concept is in preparation, which we will strive to adopt by the end of the year. Surely no final decision will be taken at this time on investment in the second block of the nuclear power plant, you can be sure of that. We also know that the Coalition Treaty defines that any continuation of these activities at the construction of the second nuclear power plant block, that this commitment is here, that a preliminary research referendum should be carried out. In short, I don't think there's anything missing, too late. We will prepare this energy concept. In this energy concept, it will probably be necessary to determine whether the need for long-term electricity supply in addition to renewable sources is enough to do otherwise. And how else is it available in essence only two: whether we encourage fossil use, by fossil electricity production, or this low-carbon resource that we have, that is the nuclear option. In short, this decision will have to be taken in this context, and all decisions on specific investment will therefore have to be followed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u364	Matjaž Hanžek, you have the floor to request that an answer be discussed at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u365	Of course, not because I'd like to talk about it, but because we want to talk about something like that, but I don't want to be the subject of a new commission of inquiry in 10, 15 years, when they realize that we've thrown 5 billion into some project that Slovenia doesn't need. Mr Minister, I do not agree that only a possible solution between coal and nuclear energy is possible. There are many other possibilities for survival, the energy survival of Slovenia. In addition, I do not agree, 'nothing is yet missed', but at least 15-20 million have been delayed. Here we're arguing about 20, 50 thousand money that we can't give or 100 thousand that we can't give for control, monitoring water, for children's food and so on, and there we can say that 20 million is not yet delayed, that someone is throwing into different things. I won't explain any more. I think that this is absolutely enough for Members, like me, to be afraid, at least, of the future of Slovenia, at least that in 10, 15 years we will not be together on some kind of investigation, because we have confirmed the construction of a nuclear plant. Our conversation at the next session on this could be a start. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u366	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday 17 June 2015 in the framework of the votes. To the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravek Počvalšku will raise the question of Violet Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u367	Thank you for your word, Vice President! Dear ministers and respected colleagues! Recently, I was visiting again in my home White Region and there the representatives of the municipality of Črnomelj informed me of unreasonable long administrative procedures when it comes to desirable, I stress the desired transfer of property owned by the state, property and administration of the municipality. On the one hand, the state would reduce costs and, on the other hand, would allow the municipality to operate in specific buildings and maintain or even increase the value of the property, i.e. the overall increase in national property. We believe that such unreasonable delay is harmful to the welfare of Slovenia. In a specific case, the transfer of the student home of Črnomelj to municipal ownership, with arrangements with the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport taking place in such a way that the transfer would be possible in a short time and the activities of the municipality could have taken place on the first September of this year, of course, if your ministry would have accelerated its activities. That's why I'm asking you: Can you speed up the administrative and technical tasks of your ministry by transferring the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport so that the Djačina dom Črnomelj will be in the hands of the Municipality of Črnomelj before September this year so that the municipality can carry out its planned activities and have them with it on September 1st? Is it possible to transfer property free of charge from the state to the municipality if the state with the facility is unable to manage it in any way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u368	Thank you very much. The Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravko Restoršek, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u369	Dear President, honourable Member, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! The answer to the first question is yes. That's what we're gonna do, but let's be clear. The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology shall be 11. 5. 2015 received the role of the municipality, which is interested in the free transfer of state property to Črnomelj Municipality of Črnomelj. However, not all conditions for transposition have been met at the moment, as there is no precise development purpose. We are expected to call at the earliest time of the meeting where this issue will be cleared up. MGRT, according to our ministry, is responsible for conducting the procedure for the free transfer of state property. If the conditions are met, MGRT will draw up a proposal to be decided by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia by a decision confirming the text of the contract in question. The Law on the Promotion of Harmonised Regional Development in Article 29 accurately lays down the conditions to be met by an individual municipality. The second question is, is it possible to transfer free of charge from the country to the municipality? Yes, under the terms of the law. And we're interested in that happening.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u370	Thank you very much. Violeta Tomić, you have the floor to request a reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u371	Thank you very much, Minister, for that answer. I think the matter will be resolved successfully, because this is how the state property goes down. This is also the question of the municipal building, which is in the old castle and cannot be repaired as long as it is owned by the state. I think that this practice would be very useful if, of course, the state does not have the money to fix it and the local community is interested in certain buildings so that these things will be resolved as soon as possible without unnecessary technical complications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u372	Thank you very much. Mr Zdravko Počvalski, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, will ask Mr Janko Weber a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u373	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting also to the distinguished minister, Mr. Restoring. I would like to recall first of all the year 2011, when the Government reacted and adopted the Pocolpa programme to actively engage in the resolution of unemployment in both the White Region and Kočevska. However, when comparing data from 2011, when it was in Kočevska, for example, 19% of unemployment, it is already 24% in 2015. The measure was taken in order to stimulate economic growth, to create new jobs, but it is obvious that in practice it has not been enough or that some companies have gone bankrupt or relocated their activities from this area during this period, and no one has seriously, obviously, dealt with these companies. A very encouraging news in the last period was recorded in the newspaper Finance, where we could see that it is interested in building its own production in Slovenia, a Japanese company that deals with robots that are needed for industrial purposes. The most effective measure to help an area is to bring an economic programme into that environment and, in fact, do not need to look for such and different studies and activate such and different institutions that deal more or less with themselves, but need a lot of money and there is no effect. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary-General: At this point, what are the additional measures to reduce unemployment and economic development in the problem area of Kočevska? Because the law on promoting coherent regional development has been amended precisely because the government can act on its own when it sees that there are some very difficult economic conditions and that there is a high degree of unemployment and there is no need to come to Parliament with a new law, where we would say we need these and these measures. The government already has this option under this law. At the same time, I ask the Minister: Did it also include Kočevsko in the presentation of the Japanese company Yaskawa Electric? Is it possible that this production could also be organised in this problematic area, for which 150 jobs would, of course, be an exceptional solution and, in fact, a new contribution by the State to solving unemployment in the area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u374	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravko Restoršek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u375	Mr President, Mr Member, Members and Members of Parliament. In implementation, the Programme for Promoting Competitiveness of the Crop 2001-2016 is as you said. The value of the programme is €20 million, which reduces unemployment in this area. By the end of 2014, EUR 11.5 million had been used; in 2015, our Ministry of the Pocolpa Programme would have allocated an additional EUR 3 million for the following instruments: Public call to promote and start investment of enterprises and create new jobs: 1.5 million, the call was completed, eight companies were selected; the establishment of a network of enterprise incubators, instrument 1 and 2; promotion and support of the application and implementation of regional projects in Pocolpium, instrument 1.4; the call for start-up of the company in all areas of concern was not only for Pocolp. What are we planning to do in advance? We anticipate the establishment of a common programme for all problems in the area, the identification of all realistic measures, the transition from integral resources to EU funds. If we fail to achieve the objectives, the programme will be extended. The detailed programme of measures set out in the financial incentives programme for 2015-2020 is based on the possibility of prioritising problem and border areas for the following actions: Special quota of resources under a) for border areas in the implementation of measures, promotion of measures, promotion of business activities with a particular focus on startups, support for research and development projects in enterprises, promotion of investment investments in small and medium-sized enterprises, promotion of modern forms of support services for enterprises and support services for entrepreneurship and under b) more favourable conditions and criteria for projects from border areas in the implementation of measures: support for the export potential of Slovenian enterprises, support for improving the quality of business integration processes, introduction and/or development of new business models, support for demos or pilot projects, participation of companies in international trade fairs, promotion of foreign direct investment and support services for international growth. Is the Ministry aware and actively involved in the project of the Japanese company Jaskawa Electronic, which would like to build a robot factory in Kočevska? It is included in this project or cooperation with a Japanese company that already has a company with us. Our SPIRIT agency is involved in the Ribnica, but it must be said that they are studying several locations, including Kočevsko, and studying all locations with several aspects – infrastructure, human resources – and in terms of the support that countries can give to such investments. And here you are all those who are in problem areas in advantage, because we can offer modest but yet resources from the tender. And in all problem areas, we can offer 70% of the investment relief for a concrete investment and I think it is a one-year exemption for employees' salaries. Here, in this case, I think it is 150 new jobs, and here I call for a completely outspoken individual local community, if such an investment can also find any additional moments and levers for a potential investor to decide to invest in this area. We will do everything to win this investor for the next step, says for this new investment in Slovenia, and within this we treat equally as the ministry responsible for the economy, all potential stakeholders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u376	Thank you. Mr. Janko Weber, you have the floor to request a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u377	Thank you. I agree that all these areas must be treated equally, but the fact is that this area has far the greatest unemployment, and that the data in the last period are the worst in this environment. Of course, on the one hand, it can be a great advantage because it is already partly organised by this production of the company in Ribnica, and in fact it can also be one of those arguments that additional production can be organised in this environment, because there are fewer logistical problems, if I may say so. Of course, it is worrying in this programme that nothing or at least has actually happened in the field of infrastructure. Even the railway was built only to the last village in the municipality of Ribnica and beyond to Kočevje. For completely unexplained reasons, for the National Assembly has even accepted the amendment to bring construction works to the end of this road, which ends in Kočev, but nevertheless insists that money and resources be invested only and only to the Ribnica. Although this programme is very clearly adopted and the government's commitment to both your ministry and, of course, the Ministry of Transport is very clear. But since you are the custodian of this program, I am particularly reminding you of that. However, the fact is that this programme will expire in 2016. Just an additional clear answer: Can we also expect an extension of this programme after 2016, because, as I have previously presented, the effects are really very small or even in some cases negative?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u378	Thank you very much. The Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravko Restoršek, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u379	As has already been said, so far about half of this programme has been implemented within a little more than half a lifetime. I must say that there will certainly be a need to re-examine this programme before we take any new decision on the extension, what has already been done for another problem area. In principle, we do not object to this, although we would like to realize that, in spite of everything in the period ahead of us, by the end of this programme, we realize at least what is written in the programme, as far as financial means are concerned. That's why we're gonna do everything we can to make this thing happen. On the other hand, in the context of the new financial perspective until 2020, in the context of the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises, where 526 million funds are available, we would also like to try to invest in this positive sense one part of this also in all areas of concern, including in the Cologne. Here I see one possibility that, given the potential in the forest-forest chain in this area, one important step forward. Why? Because there we have Slovenian and also processing potential and knowledge, on which it would be easier and at least faster to return roughly to the way of old numbers in terms of production and employment itself. In short, before we take a new decision to extend this programme, we will try to realize this old part and will analyze the effects of what we have done so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u380	Thank you very much. Ms Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Health, will ask Miha Kordiš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u381	Madam President, thank you for your word. Mr Miro Cerar, Prime Minister of the Government, said in response to the question at the 7th ordinary meeting that Slovenian health was imported. On the last weekend, he added this description by labeling Slovenian health care as a patient. On the explicit question whether the Government will abolish supplementary health insurance and whether it will leave commercial insurance companies for compulsory health insurance, the President of the Government did not give any answer when the question was asked. For this reason, I am now also addressing the Minister of Health, specifically: In what way do you intend to abolish supplementary health insurance and replace it with public contributions? That's my first question. The second question is: In what way do you intend to impose or impose a more solidarityal burden on insured persons while maintaining as many health rights as possible? Question three: How do you plan to increase the autonomy of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia? And then question number four: What is your position on the proposal of medical organisations to change health insurance? I am talking about a document of the Strategic Direction of Slovenian Health for an exit from the crisis, Fides and some other organisations prepared it in February 2014. Just a brief comment from your side on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u382	Thank you very much. The Minister of Health, Mrs Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u383	Madam Vice President. Mr Kordish, honourable Member, you have raised four rather large questions. I will briefly try to answer all four questions in due course. The first question related to supplementary health insurance, which is essentially part of compulsory insurance in its content, as it covers the difference between full health care payments, will be recast so that the funds collected will be spent more efficiently and fully for the purpose of healthcare, and will thus represent public funds for health services. Today we know that an important part of these funds are devoted to operating costs and to creating the profits of insurance undertakings which are marketed in the Slovenian space. In the long term, it will be necessary to provide such a financing system for the Slovenian health system, which will be stable and financially sustainable. In particular, when the crisis occurs, employment increases and the contribution revenues are therefore reduced. We will, of course, take into account the fact that, by introducing a replacement resource, either a levy or whatever it is already called to maintain a high level of inclusion or coverage of the insured population, which, of course, means that a sufficiently broad population of taxpayers will have to be provided, as is the case with supplementary insurance so far, in addition to the active population of the younger population and the retired population. The size of the population covered will be about what we now have in supplementary insurance, about a million 400,000 insured. There are currently analyses of possible ways of financing and different options. We will inform you of all the details in due time because we know that the existing solution is essentially regressive because the nominal amount for all insurers is the same and does not have a solidarity component, so that all insurers are equally burdened, regardless of the level of income, although it is a compulsory health insurance service. This form is certainly not fair to the socially and economically disadvantaged, and it will also be possible to provide for different amounts of income-dependent benefits. With regard to the basket of rights, we will therefore strive to maintain as much coverage as possible, and we know that new technologies will require us to establish a long-term system of continuous evaluation of health technologies that will enable us to introduce new and abandon old treatment technologies and, of course, provide adequate financial resources. To this end, it will be necessary to increase direct and indirect supervision of the implementation of health care and to introduce the quality and safety of health services and to strengthen them consistently also through better management in the service providers themselves. With regard to the autonomy of the healthcare institution, I would like to stress that we are very different in interpretation and understand what this increase in autonomy means. Me and the Ministry understand it as an increase in the responsibilities of the Health Insurance Office, in particular in terms of the costs incurred. If you'll excuse me, because there were four questions, there'd be two more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u384	Thank you very much. Miha Kordish, you have the floor to request a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u385	Thank you. Yes, Madam Minister has answered my first three questions, which are somehow the most crucial to this issue of supplementary health insurance and I do not think I have much to stop with them. I was satisfied with the answers, but of course we're waiting in the United Left and probably people are somewhere else to get something concrete on the table and things are starting to move. And in this process of abolishing supplementary health insurance and replacing this health insurance with some kind of public donation, you can count on support from us in the United Left. We are certainly in favour of strengthening public health. I'll leave you at this point to answer my fourth question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u386	Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister for Health, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u387	Thank you. I would now like to add to this, in essence, because it is an opportunity for me to inform you all and partly answer this additional question, so that we will publish tomorrow on our website a motion for a resolution on the national health plan for the 10-year period 2015-2025 under the common slogan "Common for the Society of Health". On the Brdo we briefly presented this to all interested public on Saturday, and also Members were invited. This opens a two-month public debate on the ten-year development and orientation of Slovenian healthcare. All invited to make suggestions, comments and suggestions. This programme, of course, also lists all activities and actions. On this basis, the so-called detailed action plan will be drawn up with all the deadlines and plans for any changes to the legal, systemic and other provisions of this national plan. Let me mention as an answer that, in accordance with this plan, this key law, this is the Health and Health Insurance Act, in which the supplementary insurance and other solutions will be published by public debate by the end of the year in addition to any other amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u388	Thank you very much. Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič will ask Mr Matjaž Germany. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u389	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister Maja Makovec Brenčič, I will address you with one very current question. It's not just that you're covering the area of communication, which, in some ways, seems extraordinary, that even in education and sports they're dealing with communication, but good. In view of the current issue, I would not like to raise questions about sales themselves, sales or whatever, we are all inclined to something, but some aspect is somehow overlooked here. This is primarily the national interest in the case of the sale of our telecommunications company, the most important. In recent days, I have observed on the Ministry's website that you have published a draft amendment to the Law on Electronic Communications, which foresees changes in the resolution of disputes in the field of electronic communications. I believe that this law calls for serious reflection, a public debate on a somewhat broader scale, because the area is extremely delicate, not only from the point of view of your area, but more ministries. I therefore propose to consider an amendment to Article 160, which regulates the lawful interception of communications, in paragraph 6, which deals with the interception of communications in international electronic communications networks. The current paragraph provides that, after the first variant, the operator must, for this purpose, provide the competent authority with appropriate equipment and deliverable interfaces that allow for the lawful interception of international communications on its network. Instead, as a second option, the operator may, at its own expense, provide appropriate transmission routes to deliverable interfaces to the control centre of the competent authority. It is clear from the applicant’s explanation when adopting this law and Article that the costs of equipment and interfaces are extremely high and disproportionately burdened by the operator when they speak of the first variant. If we add to this argument the possibility that Telekom will be sold even though today we have heard promising news, such as for whom – forgive me – I am a little playful – the question arises to the foreign owner how this owner will provide such services or what his interest in something like this will be, and we must be aware that we are also talking about the behaviour of very sensitive data, which will be in the hands of a foreigner. On this basis, I am asked a logical question: Would it not make sense that the first option should simply be deleted from that Article? Thank you so far, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u390	Thank you very much. Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u391	Madam President. Commissioner Matjaž Germany, allow me first to clarify on this issue that the applicable Law on Electronic Communications, ZECOM 1, entered into force in mid-January 2013. It has also brought a number of innovations, including some improvements, and this has also satisfied the existing legislation of the European Union, which refers to the Data Storage Directive. In April 2014, the Court of Justice of the European Union declared this Directive invalid due to disproportionateity. This judgment was followed by the decision of our Constitutional Court of July 2014, which consequently annulled those provisions of the ZECOM 1 which transposed the data storage directive requirements into our legal order. The Constitutional Court alone did not order the legislator to adopt a new legislation on data storage. Nevertheless, it would be permissible to re-establish the issue of preservation in law, although this correction in the EU is not compulsory at this time, but can, of course, be in line with the findings or decisions of both courts. The initial response of the ministry or my predecessors was that before re-regulation of such sensitive issues it would be reasonable to wait for the EU legislator to respond with a possible new conservation directive. However, at the time of my predecessors, on the initiative of both the authorities, and together with certain other departments and bodies which are of course still concerned, it has already been discussed on the implications in practice and, of course, also on the possibilities and the way in which ZECOM 1 changes might be made in this work, but at this point there are still no final decisions, as you have, in fact, identified through the question. In fact, the current novel 1B is intended in fact exclusively for the Law on the Elimination of Consumer Disputes – ZIRPS and therefore does not include an amendment to Article 160. The amendment to Article 160 itself, in order to really eliminate the technical inconsistencies that have been detected here and which you yourself have pointed out, must be or will be included in the new ZECOM 1C. This one has to be ready by the end of the year. This is also a commitment that has been adopted in some way, and accordingly, of course, comes with a direct answer to your question. We agree that this is not only a sensitive subject but also, of course, a time to resolve these technical inconsistencies and then, of course, the substantive consequences of Article 160. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u392	Thank you very much. Matjaž German, you have the floor to request a reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u393	Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. It is not that I am not satisfied with the answer, but I have not been able to ask you until the end of my question because of the time constraints. I will therefore only continue to think in this direction that it is necessary to take a serious approach in the appropriate section and, in particular, in cooperation with the Office of the Information Commissioner, to prepare the text of the chapter of this Act which regulates data storage. As we know, last year, the Constitutional Court, as you have already mentioned, completely annulled this chapter of the law, since the legal regime did not pass the proportionality test and violated human rights. What do you think the timeline of these procedures will be? Do you seriously believe that this can be resolved by the end of the year? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u394	Thank you very much. Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u395	Thank you for that supplementary question. I think we need to look forward to this timeline. I hope that it will also be possible within working groups or professional views to harmonise one comprehensive view of how not only technically but also substantively to provide an appropriate solution. Let us draw a little more ambitious and, of course, try to put this ambition into practice. I am aware, however, that the issue is far from simple and that a broader professional discussion will really be needed and, above all, I would say, also to take into account some of the practices we have around us and as the European Union itself has seen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u396	I thank the Prime Minister, ministers and ministers for the answers given. Excuse me? I'm sorry. Matjaž German, you have the floor because you demand that the next meeting discuss your answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u397	My main purpose is to help the Minister. I'm happy with your answers. However, it is not a matter of problem-solving, but please see my initiative as an aid to open a public debate, to include other stakeholders, because it is only necessary because it is an extremely delicate situation that we have not yet updated, mainly because we had in terms of sales or non-sales, privatisation or non-privatisation. We often have unjustified national security in the second plan, and I hope that this debate will lead to the very first concern of national security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-15-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u398	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Wednesday 17 June 2015 in the framework of the votes. To the President of the Government, ministers and ministers, I thank you for the answers given. I inform the members and members of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy that the continuation of today's 31st urgent meeting of the Committee will take place 15 minutes after the adjournment of the meeting of the National Assembly in the large lounge. I hereby adjourn the ninth session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you very much.
