ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 12th meeting of the National Assembly. I inform you that the following Member and Members cannot attend the meetings: Mrs Ljudmila Novak, Mrs Eva Irgl, Mrs Iva Dimic, mag. Alenka Bratusek, mag. Jana Jenko, Mrs. Irena Grošelj Kosnik from 12.30 p.m., Dr. Milan Brglez to 10 p.m., mag. Matthew Tonin, mag. Anže Logar, Mr. Jean Mahnic, Mr. Janez Janša, Mr. Ivan Hršak from 3 p.m. on, Mr. Marijan Pojbič, Dr. Franc Runc from 11 a.m. to 11 p.m., Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc from 11 a.m. to 16 p.m., mag. Bojan Krajnc from 12 a.m. and Dr. Mitja Horvat. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 24. On the 20th regular report on the work of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia’s rights for the year 2014. The 20th Regular Report was submitted to the Ombudsman for consideration. I give the floor to the Ombudsman, Mrs Vlasta Nussdorfer, to further explain the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u2	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honourable Members and Members, Honourable Representative of the Government! It is certainly the day when the Ombudsman in the National Assembly presents an annual report, extremely important for our citizens and citizens who are accompanying it, and also for all of you who will have the opportunity to discuss our report; of course, the report for the previous year, while it is now being written — and is writing strongly — the report for 2015. I started last year's report on herbs and bulldozers. It seemed very important to me to explain that there are too many grass plants that bulldozers run over. Poor citizens and citizens who write and call on the Ombudsman often say that they are ignored, that they are second-rate and that their dignity is lost. This year, however, in the introduction of my report, I have given a thought from the Vienna Declaration, which is two years older than the Ombudsman's institution, which dates back to 1993; and it says that human rights and fundamental freedoms are the rights of all, that is, all. And that the task is to apply them, the task of governments, that is to say ours. I would therefore like to start by thanking you for everything you have done in the State Council, which has dealt precisely with our annual report and presented it as well; the home Commission for Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, as well as in the Government, where I have recently pointed out the most pressing issues in our country and that if the recommendations of the Ombudsman are accepted, they should also be implemented in practice. For there is much too much written down, but it is not fulfilled; or in other areas we have legislation that is unfortunately not respected. This year's report presents 114 recommendations. Last year there were 150; but we started a whole new practice to determine whether last year's recommendations, although this is a matter of other institutions, have been implemented or not. And with this practice, in my mandate, I will continue faithfully and well, because it is the only way we will be able to answer citizens and citizens whether the country respects what it accepts or does not accept and where and when it fails. It may be interesting what is seen in the tables, but what if it is sometimes difficult to read; but many do not know what the Keeper encounters in one year. And that's why I'm going to present the role of the Keeper in some eloquent numbers. Last year, in 2014, we received 3 000 81 initiatives, but it is only about the things that we have assessed so. We have also opened many of them to our own discretion because of important issues and broader questions. Thus almost 19 thousand different mails arrived to the Ombudsman, with many annexes, of course, even on hundreds of pages. This is also an indicator of our work. On a free phone number we received almost 10,000 calls, namely 9 000 982, which means that so many citizens called us and asked what they could do and what their path would be from door to door. It's all too closed. We had 13 external businesses and adopted 206 instigators and instigators. I accepted them myself during the year 126 more; and in all almost three years of my term, it is already close to 300. We had 85 meetings with various representatives of non-governmental institutions, 8 from the environment, which is very important to us; we were also on the ground. Meetings with NGOs are precisely the ones that show the problem posed by activists of these organisations; those who often work for free and see many things that the country unfortunately does not notice. We also had 330 press questions and held 21 press conferences; there were 60 important meetings with representatives of institutions as well as ministers and ministers. All the events that were presented to the public and we attended, whether many of the institutions were with us, were 376 last year; all of them internal and far over a thousand. What are the general findings of the Keeper? So what is what we find, unfortunately, not for the first time? The fundamental principles of the rule of law are often violated. A sad conclusion, but still often present. Laws are passed too quickly, without public participation, solutions would be possible in practice even with less resources; although we always stress that money is the one who makes everything. But many know that money is not always the one; that good governance, kindness, and respect for people is the one that gives them validity, power, and respect for their lives and dignity. The social sector — in no way can it be overlooked — is extremely important. That's where you get up or fall. If you fall and don't get out of here, it's very bad for many. What's the surveillance? Supervisory institutions are still not functioning fast enough and efficient enough. And here's the local government, and we often talk about it when we're on the ground, we meet with the mayors and the mayors, and we ask them how their people are being taken care of. Some at the local level work well, while some promoters and promoters claim to be too self-sufficient and do not work for the benefit of the people living with them. I'm going to go into a few areas; given the time I'm going to have, of course, I'm going to be shorter than I could have been. There is certainly a critical discourse in the area of constitutional rights, but in the spirit of freedom of speech and restraint, where you interfere with the rights of another. I would use the eloquent thought that you could pick up the spilled rice; the spoken words, if they hurt a man, even though not by blood flowing, are very difficult. We need to be aware of that. Of course, there are still many problems that affect those who are already so powerless, especially disabled, children, the elderly. These are groups of people who need special attention, especially when it comes to children and adults with special needs. Despite discrimination, the Keeper can't do a year. There are many of them, in the Roma areas, minorities and all of them that I have already mentioned. They call for extra attention – believers, unbelievers, disabled people, people who have special problems, those who are older, and those who cannot make their own decisions, as I said, children. In the area of restrictions on personal freedom, we are still talking about overcrowding in prisons and when we visit these institutions so that people who are there need work. More work is certainly beneficial to those who are on the way to training and returning to normal life. Of course, the problem is also the involvement of children in educational institutions. In particular, the media report, regrettably, also about families and children, that there is a big problem when they find themselves outside the doors of certain institutions children who may not belong there who would need different professional help. Justice is an area that the Keeper devotes a great deal of attention to. It deals with many, disgruntled citizens who feel that they have been violated their rights, that the procedures are still too long. They also reflect the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. We believe that their thorough analysis is needed to find out how we would not repeat old mistakes and how we could be better, faster and more professional in the future. So that matters for citizens coming into the justice and mills that are there will end in due course; especially when it comes to the children and the justices that they enter because of their parents. In the field of legal counsel, people continue to report that legal aid is not always available, even though it is offered by experts. And it's very hard to accept their claim that money opens several doors and better legal aid. However, we support all the days that are open in law for all citizens free of charge. However, it is certainly necessary to determine if it is ever the disciplinary responsibility of one of the lawyers, that the matter ends in due course, and that people have the answers to these questions. Police procedure. Always the Keeper — and this is one stop — praises the police, even this time. The police are structured to follow instructions, including the Ombudsman's recommendations, and are improving during the year when we warn of examples of bad practice. Its careful work, expertise, and correctness are needed. Perhaps she would only point to house investigations in a series of media lights that sometimes expose a child to blame for exposing his father or mother. Everything you do later is too late, because no one believes that those who captured the cameras weren't to blame. In the area of administrative matters, we cannot pass the Law on Registration of Residence, which the Ministry has been promising for too long. It's necessary so we don't have people on the road. So that people will know where they are; even though they have been reported to a social work center or a congregation. There are still illegal constructions, constructions that deviate from the rules, we call them incompatible. It shouldn't be for you to buy, get credit, and later find out that your executioner is knocking on your door, that you're gonna pay for the rubble, and you're gonna leave your own home with the credit you have left. We are extremely active in the field of environment and space. As I said in the introductions, we are meeting with NGOs reporting on the situation. People are extremely sensitive to excessive noise, to the smell that they are not even supposed to be able to measure; but we all know that there is a strong smell in some environment, but there are no adequate and rapid reactions, and people are hard to live. There are also heavy metals and many more, even in the fields of schools, kindergartens, it upsets people and requires quick solutions. We also encountered pollution, PM10 particles. People say that our health is important and not capital. The fast and efficient work of the ARSA services is also needed. There are also water permits, we have looked at some critical points in Slovenia, such as the Celje Cauldron. The penalties will not bring a solution; what has been imposed for years and decades or even longer must be eliminated. We were also in Zasavje, in Koroška, following the problem. Economic public services, we could talk about this a lot, but we'd stop at road ownership in particular. Down here, we had a consultation in the State Council, but we were not able to get anywhere from there. There are still many roads that are on private land. The Constitutional Court was clear. Property is property and must be respected. But unfortunately, there are too many roads running through private land and causing many conflicts. We're talking again about the fact that there's no money, but mediation is possible. I wonder why some congregations have managed to resolve the situation within a few years, while others are in the sand with their heads. The amendment of housing legislation is extremely necessary. You have talked about it, and you have hoped; but I must say it is too slow. Where are the housing units for people who can't live on the road? Like I said, the road should be no one's home. We no longer have homeless people who are middle-aged men who give in to alcohol. We also have women and regret what is worst — families. It's about 4,000 people, but it's just a number, top of an icy mountain. Working relationships — extremely tender. Health care, an extremely burning area that the Keeper pays him a lot of attention. Social, unemployment, children's rights, and ultimately, because I will have to close soon, a state preventive mechanism that keeps an eye on all persons who are deprived of their liberty in any way; a special report deals specifically with it. I'm sorry, I've exceeded the time I've been given. Thank you for your attention. I'll pick up at the end when I hear everything you say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The report was addressed by the Commission for petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities as a parent working body and prepared a proposal for a recommendation from the National Assembly. I give the floor to the Vice-President of Mrs Erika Girl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. Dear Chairman, Guardian of the Power of Nussdorfer, colleagues and colleagues! The Commission for Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities shall be held at its 8th session. Ten. 2015 considered the 20th Regular Report on the work of the Ombudsman for 2014, submitted for consideration by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with Article 43 of the Law on the Ombudsman. At the beginning of the hearing, she received the word of the Ombudsman Vlasta Nussdorfer. First of all, she mentioned a letter that she sent to the members and members of the Commission and described the plight of the investor who referred to the Ombudsman. The Ombudsman provided an additional explanation for the report in which she presented its structure and some changes in relation to previous years. The opening of the report was dedicated to the 1993 Vienna Declaration. The report presents assessments on the level of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms based on initiatives received. They also open their own initiatives when they detect a problem. In particular, they point out, for example, the poor management of the various bodies and recommend the adoption of appropriate measures. They had 150 recommendations in 2013 and 114 in 2014. This, according to the Ombudsman, does not show that the situation has improved significantly, although progress has been shown in some areas. In such cases they also commend. It noted, inter alia, that the fundamental principles of the rule of law were often violated. Laws are often adopted in an imprudent way, too quickly and without public participation. Some systemic solutions have not been adopted, particularly in the health field. It welcomed the reduction of judicial backlogs, although the right to a trial is still violated within a reasonable time. The supervisory authorities of the State are not effective enough, the problem is human resources malnutrition, especially inspection services. She mentioned a number of recommendations, some of which are repeated from year to year. Slovenia should not allow the level of the social state to fall, which is also defined in our Constitution. She drew attention to the hate speech that was still present; she also touched on Roma issues, where she highlighted the role of the congregations and the country. The Ombudsman also encourages measures to eliminate overcrowding in Slovenian prisons, supports alternative sentences and the ability of convicted persons to work. It also mentioned some of the recommendations relating to the environment and space, the field of labour law and unemployment, and health or health care. She also touched on children and their rights and expressed the need for a new Family Code. At the end of the opening presentation, it called on all three branches of government to work effectively and added that it would continue to monitor the situation in all areas. The representatives of the State Council, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice, the representative of the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for the enforcement of criminal sanctions, the representative of the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of the Environment and Space, the representative of the Supreme Court, the representative of the Supreme State Prosecutor and the representative of Amnesty International also presented the report. In the ensuing debate, the members and members of the Commission on Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities gave their views and observations on the content of the report. Among other things, it has been said that some of the Ombudsman’s findings are repeated; in some areas progress has been observed. It was also mentioned that the Ombudsman is the overseer of all three branches of government. Its recommendations should therefore be given due attention. After the end of the discussion, the members and members of the Commission first adopted a proposal for a general recommendation. In the discussion, the Commission included in the draft act additional recommendations to Chapter 2.12 Health and health insurance proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Finally, the text of the act was put to the vote and the proposal was recommended in full with the preamble and explanation adopted by the members and members of the Commission. An integral part of this report is a proposal for a recommendation drawn up by the Commission as its parent working body; today it will be addressed by the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to present the opinion. Mr Darko Stare, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u6	Honourable Chairman, Honourable Guardian, Deputy, Deputy; Honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Government took note of the Ombudsman's report on its work in 2014 and also prepared a response report detailing the clarifications and measures to implement these recommendations in the coming year. The Government’s general assessment and opinion is that the Ombudsman’s recommendations are, as in previous years, extremely rich and professionally justified, and therefore a very important and useful resource for the work of the Government and all its departments in the preparation and implementation of these regulations. As a positive assessment by the Government, many of the Ombudsman's recommendations have been fully or partially implemented. However, we are pleased to note that the Ombudsman in her report also notes the good involvement of the State authorities with the Ombudsman in addressing the identified shortcomings and making recommendations. In particular, I would like to point out, among others, my appreciation in cooperation with regard to the area of the Administration for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions and the police, which we know are working in an area which is particularly sensitive in terms of human rights. The government has prepared a response report on the Ombudsman's report because the measures are further clarified and I will only mention here a few areas that are particularly sensitive in terms of human rights. In the field of justice, we take every Ombudsman's recommendation very seriously, which also shows that last year, on the basis of the Ombudsman's recommendations or initiatives, we have drawn up solutions or individual provisions on the basis of the Ombudsman's recommendations or recommendations in the adoption of eight laws and twelve regulations. In the field of labour relations, social protection and unemployment, we stress that the Ministry of Labour will focus in particular on the most vulnerable groups in the labour market, i.e. the long-term unemployed and job seekers. In the field of environment and space, which the Ombudsman paid special attention to in the report in 2014, the Ministry responsible also responded to the recommendations made this year and in all activities – regulation preparation, individual action plans and programmes – to the maximum extent possible, taking into account the Ombudsman’s recommendations. In the area of housing, however, the Government has already approved the National Housing Programme framework and amendments to the Housing Law are being prepared. The Ombudsman notes in her 2014 report that fewer initiatives have been put in place due to hate speech in politics and that there are still fewer cases of this type. The Government certainly supports the Ombudsman's recommendation in this regard and agrees that all of us who participate in or participate in public debates should refrain from encouraging hostile speech in our statements and texts and contribute to the ethics of the public word by acting and acting. With regard to the hate speech, the amendment of the Media Law also provides for an amendment to the rules of the Media Act in order for the issuer of the individual media, which allows comments to be made in the context of its media, to develop rules of comment which will have to be published. In the event of a violation of these rules, he will have to remove such comments within 48 hours as soon as possible and at the latest within 48 hours. The Government accepts as a priority commitment that it will do its utmost in this year and in the coming period within the framework of the possibility to make every effort to implement any initiatives or recommendations of the Ombudsman as soon as possible and to the greatest extent possible. We expect everyone, either individual civil servant, official and all the state authorities, to contribute to this effort, whose duty it is to ensure and realize public interest also in the form of respect for and enjoyment of human rights. On conclusion, I would like to thank the Ombudsman once again for her outstanding work, which is also reflected in the 2014 annual report. I would like to point out that the content of this report, and in particular to recommend a truly valuable source for the government's work this year as well. I believe that we will be able to make as many recommendations as possible with our collective strengths. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Joint Left Group, Mr Matjaž Hanžek, on its behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Vice President. Hello, team of the Guardian of Human Rights! The Ombudsman's report is reviewed every year. But the government doesn't practically ever give him the right attention. I think that I can put this body, the National Assembly, here at the side of the government, where, according to the data on the presence of the meeting, we have only now reached one voice more than a majority. This means that even for members of the National Assembly, the Ombudsman’s report is not so important that they arrive at work at nine o’clock. The Ombudsman is an independent and independent body and is not part of the mechanism of authority, but a supervisor of all three branches of authority. It limits the will of all these three authorities and controls their functioning. To date, governments have systematically ignored the Ombudsman's recommendations; the government of Mir Cerar is also ignoring them, and clearly confirms the fact that 93 of last year's 154 recommendations have remained unfulfilled. This year's report also reiterated, inter alia, the frequent violations of the fundamental principles of the rule of law, in view of the imprudent and undemocratic way in which legislation is adopted, which is often adopted even without the necessary involvement of the public concerned; it is quick and reckless. We have seen many examples of such laws in this mandate. And all the warnings from the United Left have been heard. Some of the bad solutions adopted by the coalition in this mandate are also mentioned in this year's report for last year; even more are likely to be found in the 2015 report. Even in the face of reckless and unnecessary decisions, such as yesterday morning, when the right-wing coalition sent an army with police powers. We fear that such measures will increase the annual report of the Ombudsman year after year, and that the number of outstanding recommendations will increase every year. Since we are concerned in the United Left about the failure of the government, which rarely implements the Ombudsman's recommendations, we also propose some additional ones. We are proposing them because we believe that the National Assembly should do more to remedy the shortcomings that the Keeper points out. We believe that the adoption of these would further contribute to the realization of at least some of them, especially those repeating themselves from year to year; for more than 20 years, it seems to me. However, the recommendations relate to the area of hate speech, justice and working relations. As far as the area of justice is concerned, we note the increasingly poor opportunities for access to effective legal protection for the socially weak. In the United Left, we have repeatedly warned about the problem — like the Keeper. This year, for example, the Coalition adopted an unwise and harmful abolition of the free first legal advice that we opposed in the United Left and many NGOs. She was also opposed by the Keeper. For this reason, we propose that the Ministry of Justice prepare an adequate analysis of access to effective legal protection for the socially weak. However, the analysis should cover access from the point of view of appropriate legal advice and in terms of the possibility of payment and the level of judicial and administrative fees. Our recommendations also point to increasing cases of violations of labour law by employers and the problem of bankruptcy procedures. This has been mentioned several times in the Ombudsman's report in recent years, by the way, and has already been mentioned today. Among other things, we propose that the issue of unpaid wages and contributions to bankruptcy procedures be resolved as soon as possible. The government has not yet implemented this recommendation. Unpaid salaries are not yet the absolute advantage of claims in insolvency proceedings, so we propose that changes to insolvency laws be prepared immediately, which will define unpaid wages for workers as absolute priority claims and ensure adequate protection for workers. The current regime, which primarily protects owners and banks and leaves workers without everything, is unacceptable. Last year, the number of complaints about the Ombudsman's hate speech dropped, but we are sure it will be different this year. At least two events are the basis for this – the amendment of the Marriage Act and the refugee crisis, which also plagued Slovenia. In doing so, I should say that they have extended the Alliance against Hatred project in the Council of Europe, where they also place greater emphasis on the role of national parliaments in dealing with hate speech. It is also worth noting that, months ago, in the United Left, we proposed to the National Assembly that it also focus on this topic at the meeting; but we were rejected. By adopting these additional recommendations, the government and the competent ministries would still be a little more resilient in their commitment to their implementation. Since these two recommendations in the field of health have already been adopted by the competent committee, we see no reason not to accept any additional ones, which also touch on the pressing issues that should have been resolved long ago. In the United Left, we expect that our recommendations will be adopted and that the government will implement them as soon as possible. Today, the Ombudsman has also mentioned the problem of the Celje Valley among many problems. I would like to remind you that the proposal of the United Left was also rejected in the National Assembly yesterday in order to discuss this subject in the National Assembly. But as usual, we will wait for the crisis situation, and once the emergency situation is again, we will adopt system laws and not intervention laws at night sessions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, on its behalf, Mr Jožef Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u10	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice-President. Respected Ombudsman Mrs. Vlasta Nussdorfer, Honourable Deputy and Deputy, Representative of the Government, Dear Fellows and Fellows! Christian democracy is a political orientation that combines the ideals of Christianity and the ideals of democracy. One of the foundations of Christian-democratic thinking is the social teaching of the church. This is a picture of a man who attributes dignity, diversity, equivalency — equivalence — and imperfection. It brings from here fundamental values such as freedom – freedom – democratic co-decision and social justice. From here, our advocacy, among other things, of the socio-market model of the economy for better material and spiritual well-being of individuals in our country and our Slovenian families. Slovenian families, which are the foundation of Slovenian society and human society. And through this optics, which I mentioned in the introduction, we, the New Slovenia Group, are monitoring the state of human rights in the Republic of Slovenia, and we are also evaluating and analysing the indications in the 20th report of the Ombudsman for 2014. Dear, regular annual report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia has been very good to the Slovenian government and to us – Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The 20th 2014 report, which we are considering today, is no exception. Christian Democrats believe that it is most problematic that some of the Ombudsman's findings, warnings and recommendations have been drawn for years and decades. The report confirms our position that the rule of law does not work in Slovenia; or it does not work yet. It also confirms the basic starting points of the New Slovenia programme – Christian Democrats. Reforms are needed, changes are needed – decisive and effective; for the benefit of our people. We keep reminding ourselves of the necessary pension, health and tax reform. We also have solutions. Without radical changes and adjustments to these large but essential systems, the country is no longer – and will be increasingly – capable of providing each and every one of us with a life worth living. The Ombudsman's report shows that we are staggering without reform every day, and in some areas we are very backward. The Ombudsman is too often the last refuge for large citizens and citizens. When government authorities do not resolve matters within their marriage, when they do not even answer them, when they feel abandoned and humiliated, they turn to the Ombudsman. In our position, we will highlight something, in our view, of the most pressing areas of this year's report. This year, the Ombudsman reiterates the issue of the longevity of proceedings and the quality of the trial and encourages the adoption of a long-term strategy of the judiciary. In particular, it draws attention to the backlog in the work of the Labour and Social Court, in the resolution of labour and social disputes. The average working time of the dispute is 18 months. By law, however, they should be saved within six months, three times earlier. Loss of employment also means social hardship for applicants. Therefore, the trial is so much more important within a reasonable time. As regards the quality of the Ombudsman's trial, it does not warn about strengthening the effectiveness of the control mechanisms, improving transparency and publicising the functioning of the judiciary. The report also notes that the right to a fair, impartial trial is not always respected. The Ombudsman points to the growth of matters in the administrative field. Of which, for almost a third, in the field of administrative procedures. Is it still possible, colleagues and colleagues, that a craftsman, a miller on the outskirts of Ljubljana in 1998, i.e. the previous millennium, gets a building permit, builds a modern mill, goes out to two sons in the wood industry, but today 2015 does not have a useful permit because three building permits he has already obtained have been cancelled?Oh, my God! Is that possible anywhere else? I am this case, I do not want to talk about names, I also presented to the Vice-President of the Government and to the Minister of Public Administration. And I expect the matter to finally be resolved after 17 years. Of course, this is not the fault of this government; this is the fault of all the governments that have ruled over the past 17 years. And the matter is inadmissible. The worrying trend suggests that reform of the state administration is necessary. The Ombudsman points out the problem of applying for permanent residences because of the loss of permanent residence, which means the loss of a number of rights relating to permanent residence – social security rights, health insurance, the application for a non-profit residence and so on. Addressing the issue of the registration of permanent residences should be a priority for the Ombudsman; we agree. The report draws attention to the mass overruns by government authorities and public servants who remain unsanctioned. Public servants are paid from budgetary resources and also receive payment for the week. We agree with the guardian when he doubts the appropriateness of such arrangements. New Slovenia has already proposed several solutions aimed at the possibility of awarding good public servants and, on the other hand, sanctioning or cancelling the employment relationship of lazy public servants who do not work for citizens; on the other hand, against citizens. This would also prevent some of the bad public officials from throwing a bad light at everything. We regret that. "It is unacceptable that the denationalisation procedures are still not fully completed," the guardian told me. Christian Democrats, however, add that in a normal state of law such delays should also be answered by someone. In the 2013 report, the Ombudsman drew attention to respect for the human dignity of victims of post-war trials and their relatives. We are pleased, colleagues and colleagues, that its warning to the State has also helped create a situation and an atmosphere for the adoption of the law that we have drawn up and is now at the beginning of implementation. We sincerely want to provide a symbolic burial of the remains of the victims and to give them a proper monument, a landmark, and a dignified farewell. But it's a fundamental civil action. In the area of constitutional law, the Ombudsman points out the inadmissibility of the hate speech of politicians and recommends the adoption of an ethical code for Members and the introduction of a court to respond to hate speech in politics. Yet, the report does not specifically highlight the area of intolerance and hate speech and actions toward Christians, such as insults and public promotion of hatred against Christians, vandalism, and the defilement of religious symbols and objects. Christian Democrats are reminded of the obvious tendency that the criteria for naming hate speech can be very subjective. Who is responsible for determining in Slovenia what is the hate speech and what are the sanctions? In the field of environment and space, the report highlights the problem of long-term decision-making procedures on water rights and property relations in these lands; also with regard to long-term and ineffective inspection procedures. This is a more than a decade-long problem due to the fact that it is a vaguely defined competence of the Ministry or the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Environment in the case of water lands. In its economic programme, New Slovenia advocates simplifying procedures in all areas relating to the decision-making of citizens' rights. The actual situation indicates the need for change, and this is an urgent change. The State has still not amended the Law on Funeral and Funeral Activities and on the Regulation of Cemetery, which has been unchanged since 1984 and requires the immediate adoption of a new law which will also regulate the now unevenly regulated practice in individual municipalities regarding the right to rent graves, rents and the cost of maintenance of burial sites. Similarly, the unregulated area of chimney services is expected to be marketed by the end of this year. Almost no recommendation from the Ombudsman in this area has been taken into account. The housing situation is still alarming. In 2014, the government had not yet prepared a National Housing Programme, which would at least partially address housing issues; in particular vulnerable groups – young, young and older families. The great criticism of the Ombudsman, who is joined by Christian Democrats, is that no recommendation from the previous year has been implemented; neither has the older recommendations. As the Government of the Republic of Slovenia presents itself in a comprehensive manner to regulate demographic policy with such a stepmotherly attitude towards housing or family policy, we ask ourselves. The number of healthcare initiatives is in fact the same in 2013 and their content has changed considerably. Many more initiatives relate to medicines and their replacement; however, there are very few complaints about waiting periods. The Ombudsman points out that the Ministry's communication with the parties was delayed. The Ombudsman points out that the work of the Ministry of Health is not well organised and no one recognises the responsibilities of individual public servants for unworked work. In New Slovenia we say that this is unacceptable. In the Health Activity Act, the report particularly draws attention to the issue of professional supervision of children’s cardiosurgery in UKC Ljubljana. Complaints related to systemic problems. In the field of labour relations, the Ombudsman notes a decline in the number of initiatives compared to 2013. However, it is interesting to note that only one quarter of initiatives between the initiatives taken are justified. Key issues in this area include non-payment of salaries and contributions, torture, bullying and other forms of violence in the workplace, the issue of inspection procedures, long-term decision-making at the Ministry of Labour, the family of social affairs and equal opportunities, volunteer traineeships and difficulties in the appropriateness of incentives for unemployed people to seek employment. The Ombudsman is not satisfied with the fact that the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has not yet prepared an analysis of the effects of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act 2 (SPIZ-2), which would be the basis for public debate and for the preparation of changes to the pension and disability insurance system. The Ombudsman points to the increasing poverty of some people in the area of social affairs. The measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are obviously not being taken and poverty is increasing, as we have been warning for some time now. As a result, the social situation of individual families is exacerbated by the problem of violence against the elderly. The problem of ineffective resolution of complaints against decisions on rights from public funds still arises. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Complaints still does not decide within the 60-day time limit. The Ombudsman draws attention to the unfair and non-lifelike arrangements of funeral recipients under social law, which Christian Democrats have been exposed to since the extreme restriction of funerals by the government of Alenka Bratušek. The report highlights the problem of children with the most serious mental disorders and multiple disorders who, at the age of 26, lose their right to stay in a educational institution. Some regions — coastal and karst, inland, mountain, north coastal — have no centre to cover the needs of these people in their adult population. In regions where these centres exist, however, there are intolerably long waiting lines. All of this is unacceptable and unsustainable. They've been robbed of their dignity. The report draws attention to changes in the content of controversial publications of photographs and other personal data of children in the media. So far, more than victims have been shown in various stories — crimes, divorces; this time, the Ombudsman sees an increase in publications that want to help improve the material situation of the family or help organize treatment, therapy, and the like. The Ombudsman points out that the good intentions of the media do not detract from the duty to carefully weigh all the circumstances of the individual case and on this basis decide to publish or not to publish the child's personal data in the public domain, which we also support Christian Democrats. New Slovenia – Christian Democrats will support the 2014 report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia. However, when we read and deal with the injustices caused by national authorities each year, we do not feel well. The contents of the report are actually very sad. As we should be ashamed of the content of the report, we expect a greater response from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the state administration, or all the state sector. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The text shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, in its name mag. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Your Honor, hello! We already have the 20th periodic report on the work of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia. The material received for consideration by the National Assembly is certainly very extensive and represents a key analysis and a cross-section of the human rights situation in the Republic of Slovenia. The fact that the report is also very extensive this year unfortunately means that there is still much work to be done in the area of human rights protection. At the hearing of the report on the work of the Ombudsman on petitions and human rights and equal opportunities, representatives of ministries and other institutions ensured that the report was taken very seriously and that progress had been made in a number of areas. Unfortunately, however, the government should take seriously not only the report on the work of the Ombudsman, but in particular the situation that has led to human rights violations in our country and on the basis of which the Ombudsman prepares the report. Among the areas to which the Ombudsman pays great attention each year and which has been highlighted by the representative of Amnesty International Slovenia on the Commission for Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, I would like to stress in particular the rights of the Roma minority and the violations that are taking place in this area. The country's failure to address the spatial problem of the Roma community is evidenced by the fact that Slovenia was once again at the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg because of the failure of the local authorities and the government to regulate the situation of Roma. Nor has this encouraged the government to finally draft amendments to the Law on the Roma Community in the Republic of Slovenia and to regulate what is necessary in order to ensure that human rights violations no longer occur in this area. We have shown our only efforts so far in the two opposition parliamentary groups; it shows that our proposals will not be accepted. In our view, solving the spatial problem and regulating the housing situation of Roma is a process that can only be successful with the partnership of municipalities, Roma and state institutions, where each of the actors must fulfil the obligations of their respective competences. As the Ombudsman has said, I state: "Where the municipalities are kept secret, let the state speak; where the municipalities are unable to resolve, let a strong state take their place, which regulates the situation of Roma who are discriminated against." I therefore sincerely hope that the government's announcement will be realized and that the amendment of the Law on the Roma Community will indeed be considered by May next year. It is high time that at least a little bit of the report on the work of the Ombudsman relating to the rights of the Roma should be maintained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Italian and Hungarian national communities, on her behalf by Dr. László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u14	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Lady Guardian with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! With regard to the integrity of the operation of the Ombudsman, we record continuous upgrading and qualitative improvement, as also reflected in the Ombudsman's report for 2014. We consider this report to be good and transparent in our parliamentary group. In the context of the Group's position, I will focus on only the problem related to indigenous national communities. Unfortunately, the situation in this area is somewhat different. Let me begin by talking deeply to my colleague Battelli recently with the Ombudsman and her colleagues; including the Ombudsman's Human Rights Report for the past year; and in particular the Ombudsman's understanding of the Ombudsman's competences in terms of the exercise of the rights of indigenous national communities. In the context of the constructive discussion, we have pointed to the broader dimensions and historical context of the realization of the rights of national communities, particularly in terms of the problems we face. Although the Ombudsman’s 2014 report shows that few applications or problems have been reported by members of indigenous national communities. Let me tell you right now that's not the case. Such a conclusion shall be reached only in the event of a formal review of the question of the possible deprivation of so-called nationalities of rights. We estimate that members of the indigenous national community may not have come to know the Ombudsman in cases of deprivation because of the Ombudsman's limited powers, perhaps because of the lack of knowledge of her powers, and also because of the discouragement of general mistrust in all state institutions. In the framework of the organisations and institutions of the national communities, the debates on the problems related to the realization and violation of the rights of national communities are unfortunately constant. In the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group, we note with concern that, despite several cases of national intolerance to indigenous national communities and their members, many of them related to the abuse of the social distress of citizens, there is still a gap between the constitutional and legal provisions on the protection of national communities in various areas and their exercise in practice and other cases of human rights violations of those national communities; there is very little going on in this regard. The annual report on the work of the Ombudsman for last year, as I have already mentioned, only touches on the above. These cases have been dealt with on several occasions by the Commission of the National Assembly and reported them to the competent authorities. Unfortunately, we must find that indigenous national communities and their members have often been left without adequate response in the constant and multi-year manifestations of hate speech, the imposition of collective injustices and other forms of human rights violations. In our previous discussion with the guardian lady, we have specifically pointed out this. Most of the problems mentioned do not fall within the competence of the Ombudsman’s institution to avoid any confusion; however, the role of this institution can be very important. Let me say this in the end. Since there is a different understanding of the competences of the Ombudsman on these issues, which is partly imputable to the systemic nature of this institution, the Commission for the National Community, at its last meeting following the Ombudsman's report, has adopted a decision to propose to the Ombudsman that, in cooperation with indigenous national communities, he proactively implements the role of protecting their rights in informing about the role and importance of this institution. We have also agreed on other cooperation activities in the hope that the work of the Ombudsman in this sensitive and specific area will be upgraded. We believe that this would be in the spirit of a high level of protection of the rights of indigenous national communities in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The text shall be given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, on its behalf Mrs Erika Dekleva.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u16	Once again, a nice hello to you all. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The annual report of the Ombudsman, this time for the twentieth time, is an important guide for the work of all three branches of government. At the same time, it is an important indicator of the state and society as a whole. It is not unusual that the development of the institutions of the Ombudsman is inseparably linked to the relationship between an individual and the authorities, since the institutions of the Ombudsman have developed, or mainly because of the subordinate position of an individual in relation to all three branches of the Authority – executive, judicial and legislative. In its work, the Ombudsman establishes a certain attitude towards all these branches of government, and its independent and impartial action in protecting the rights of all citizens and citizens is all the more important. Let us briefly outline some known facts about the institution of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia. These are essential for understanding the work and competences of the institution itself. The Ombudsman is a constitutional category, since Article 159 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that the Ombudsman shall be appointed by law for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms in relation to public authorities, local authorities and public authorities. The Law on the Ombudsman provides that the Ombudsman shall be independent and independent in his work and shall comply with the provisions of the Constitution and international human rights and fundamental freedoms legal acts. The law also provides that anyone who considers that the act of the body violates human rights or fundamental freedoms may give him an initiative to initiate proceedings with the Ombudsman. The Ombudsman may also initiate the procedure on his own initiative or may also address broader issues that are important for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. The Ombudsman is obliged to conduct the procedure impartially and cannot be called to account for the opinion or proposal he has made in the course of his duties. In the SMC Group, we are convinced that the Ombudsman is doing his work in accordance with the facts just mentioned, which is also reflected in the 20th regular annual report that we are discussing today. We are discussing respect for human rights, freedoms and fundamental human dignity, discussing the transparency and accountability of the functioning of fundamental political institutions, as well as the cooperation of authorities with civil society. When it comes to the protection of the rights of all citizens and citizens, especially vulnerable social groups. We are pleased that the Ombudsman in the report has seen some positive steps in terms of decisions taken that seek higher standards of human rights protection. We welcome the increased responsibility of the media in reporting on sensitive topics, particularly when touching children and victims of crime. We also welcome the encouraging data on positive trends, shortening and optimising judicial proceedings. It is also important to mention positive legislative initiatives that have either been adopted in the current mandate of the National Assembly or are in the process of being examined and seek to improve the protection of the human rights of individuals and certain groups. Let us only point out some: amendments to electoral legislation that eliminate the unconstitutionality of the Electoral Law in the National Assembly on the accessibility of voters for persons with disabilities; amendments to the Law on Judicial Fees that eliminate the unconstitutionality with regard to the exemption of court fees for persons with disabilities; social changes to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance, which pursue the objective of implementing the constitutional principle of the social state and fulfilling the commitments of the current Social Agreement. However, since we are aware that the road to the final goal is still a long way to go, let us highlight just a few areas where progress and reflection on change are particularly needed. We still do not have an independent advocate of the principle of equality, nor does we have a full state institution for human rights that operates on the basis of universally accepted Parisian principles. Housing is still a problem. Workers are constantly unable to exercise their rights and are often exposed to situations where they are not paid for their work or are not provided with social security and are given various forms of suffering. It is also worrisome that the report of the Ombudsman shows that the number of cases dealt with in relation to particularly vulnerable groups of children who are in foster care or in institutional care and children with special needs has increased. We must all work together to ensure the situation afforded to children by the Constitution and international human rights law. We want and expect to make appropriate legislative changes as soon as possible in the National Assembly. Respected and respected! One of the most important declarations in the field of human rights – this is the Vienna Declaration adopted at the 1993 World Conference on Human Rights – clearly states that human rights and fundamental freedoms are inherent in the rights of all people. Their protection and enforcement is the task of all governments. Let us add to this the tasks, responsibilities and responsibilities of the other branches of government and the role of all individuals. In the SMC Group, we supported the Ombudsman's report along with the proposal for a recommendation on the parent's working body, and we will extend our support to him today.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The text is addressed to the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Franz Breznik, on its behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u18	Madam Vice-President, respectable Ombudsman, Mrs Vlasta Nussdorfer! The annual report of the Ombudsman, this time for 2014, presents an important and key document showing the state of protection and respect for human rights in the Republic of Slovenia. Dear Guardian, you're in charge. You also intervene in extremely sensitive areas where individuals are all too often violated by the most fundamental human rights which affect their integrity and dignity; whereas Article 34 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia makes it clear — everyone has the right to personal dignity and security. As you can see in the annual report of the Ombudsman, it is the issue of human integrity and dignity that is repeatedly put to the test, since individuals are often exposed to unjustifiable and unacceptable attacks against the Constitution with a certain right; this should never be questionable. It is worth noting that, regardless of the circumstances and the situation under the Constitution, which is the highest legal act, all should be equal before the law and that everyone should be guaranteed equal human rights and fundamental freedoms — regardless of nationality, race, sex, language, religion, political or other belief, material status, birth, education, social situation, disability or any other personal situation. Those who have been more closely monitoring the work or functioning of the Ombudsman for years now are certainly united in the fact that the production of some analysis of the situation in the field of human rights is a very difficult and no simple task; it affects all areas and all levels of social life. I personally expect the Ombudsman, and also in the Slovenian Democratic Party, to point out human rights violations not only in accordance with the Constitution and the laws, but that he will also be responsible for considering when a decision or intervention in a particular, particularly sensitive situation will bring about an improvement in the situation and when, despite the good intentions, it may also make the matter worse. The Ombudsman must be honest, conscientious and, above all, just in his work. It must not be politically burdened or biased. Since the Ombudsman is an indisputable moral authority in the field of human rights protection, the example of all of us is how to act in extremely sensitive situations. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia therefore established the Ombudsman in its 159th Article for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The Ombudsman is an informal form of protection of the rights of individuals in relation to the authorities. The Ombudsman, as a constitutional category in the Slovenian Constitution, is not part of the mechanism of power, not part of the mechanism of authority, but rather a kind of anti-authority, since by its operation it limits its will to intervene in human rights and fundamental freedoms. It acts in an informal way and draws its authority from its reputation and position in society and therefore recalls the importance of the Ombudsman's institutional role. If we make a short comparison, in many countries the Ombudsman is established only by law and has a significantly weaker position compared to our Ombudsman. That is why the work of the Ombudsman is even more responsible and particularly important when it comes to certain matters relating to human rights violations. We expect you, a respected guardian, in the Slovenian Democratic Party to raise your voice or take the initiative to point out that even in the article of the Law on the Ombudsman, you have a clear record of human rights violations even when that may not suit you most; it is responsible and necessary. [[…]] Opportunities with the Ombudsman have no place according to his constitutional position. In the field of constitutional rights, the Ombudsman also notes in this year's annual report, in the sub-chapter of the Ethic of Public Words, a strong hate speech in public discourse. The initiatives received have indeed decreased from 183 cases to 89. The reduction is exclusively at the expense of the minor. You see this for yourself, and you have to do everything you can to say it — no. However, in the event of an enemy speech, it should be prosecuted in accordance with the law. You all know the 100th article of the Penal Code, which is clear. Article 63 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is also clear. All of this provides the basis for appropriate sanctioning of hate speech in the Republic of Slovenia. But first, we need to know what hate speech is. I have a feeling that sometimes we don't know that in the Republic of Slovenia. Even in the National Assembly, we do not know what hate speech is and why it is so important that we know the exact definition of hate speech; especially since the definition of hate speech does not mean everything that seems unacceptable to someone. On the one hand, we could say that we have an enemy speech that can be sanctioned; on the other hand, we have a culture of speech of a particular individual, which still belongs to clearly guaranteed constitutional rights. The hate speech is an expression of opinions and ideas that are inherently discriminatory, xenophobic, racist, homophobic and directed at different minorities, groups and individuals. It is based on the belief that some people are inferior due to different personal circumstances. We can compare hate speech with social action, since it can harshly determine the social situation of those against whom it is directed. And here, in particular, the Ombudsman must have the same criteria for all because he has special power and special authority. I can tell you that's never been the case. Here I am not referring to the current guardian of human rights or only her; I am referring to all the former or former guardian of human rights. We note that in a public space, debates that are unacceptable are often more appraised on the basis of who is the one who said something than what the actual content of the speech was. We need to talk about content, not about who said or said something. We expect the Ombudsman in the Slovenian Democratic Party to participate in the Commission's petitions and human rights and equal opportunities with his view of a particular topic. I must say that, after repeated warnings by the Ombudsman, he is now participating in or is present in the debates on the Commission. At the very least, it has moved that today, at least the deputy guardians will come to the meetings of the Commission for Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities dealing with human rights, which we welcome and am very pleased with, if the Ombudsman does not come. However, some members of the coalition do not attend these meetings. Here I would expect people in their positions to believe in human rights. We don't all have to agree. There is a need for debate, controversy and dialogue; this is not enough on this committee. But this is certainly a better, respected guardian than the functioning of the coalition MPs I have mentioned. Unfortunately, all of what we have seen in the previous report and what we have warned in the Slovenian Democratic Party, the Commission's petitions and human rights and equal opportunities do not participate at all in this mandate, or only in certain subjects. And such things are unacceptable. What was the rationale of the coalition Members, why will they not be present most of the time? They said that this does not fall within the Commission's remit for petitions, although the Commission's primary task for petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities is to listen to citizens and citizens and to address all petitions and also all human rights violations equally. Today, from our colleagues and colleagues, we have most often heard quotations from the foundations of the Vienna Convention, adopted in 1993, that these human rights are born, that they are natural, that this is something that has emerged according to civilization. And I don't understand such, we can say very unilateral treatment; certain rights — yes, certain rights — don't. This is where I see the manna of serious history, of serious democracy in Slovenia, and we have repeatedly warned about this in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Article 45 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia states that every citizen has the right to petition and other initiatives of general interest. However, the point of this right is that citizens and citizens can lodge petitions or initiatives without fear of possible repressive measures by the public authorities; in particular, that state authorities can draw attention to the problems encountered in society. However, you, some respected colleagues and colleagues, deny this right, which is also closely linked to the right to freedom of expression. I fear, as it has now begun again in practice — at least in some acts of justice — that article 133 of the Criminal Code of the former, the former, is somehow coming back. Those who hoped to say something critical against the former authorities could have been threatened with imprisonment for up to 10 years. Why am I saying this? I also speak most often because the victims of the previous state, the former totalitarian regime today in some Renaissance form, come to the day people who once worked in the State Security Service and today occupy places in the judiciary, here in the National Assembly, in the executive branch of government and also in the press profession. That's unacceptable. Let us remind ourselves, for example, in 2014 and in 2015, in the Maribor trial, as pointed out by the Committee 2015, when a former member of the State Security Service later worked in Sova and is today a judge in the District Court and acting against the former mayor. I'm talking about the Kangler case. This man, this judge, has not been excluded from this case; mass, I may say, is in violation of the Bordeaux Declaration, which speaks of the appearance of impartiality of judges and prosecutors. This is recalled by the 2015 Committee. As far as I know, you have also met with them or will meet with them, so I believe that this case will also be an exclusive case of human violations, i.e. the appearance of impartiality, condemned and also in court proceedings, as with colleague Kangler, that the following report will mention. Let me also make the Ombudsman's key points in the 20th report for 2014. The Ombudsman points out that the fundamental principles of the rule of law are often violated. Laws are not always adopted in a transparent and democratic manner, mostly without the necessary involvement of the interested public, in a quick and reckless manner. In 2014 the European Court of Human Rights found, in 29 cases, that Slovenia had violated at least one human right, most often the right to an effective remedy — nineteen times. The prohibitions of torture, inhuman and degrading conduct — thirteen times; the right to a decision within a reasonable time — seven times; the right to a fair trial — five times; and the right to freedom and security — four times. The Ombudsman recommends greater coordination between the ministries and services in the search for solutions to problems related to the exercise of human rights and freedoms; that citizens and citizens do not receive dry bureaucratic answers, that they are not competent and that they turn to others. A respected guardian, even himself and perhaps other fellow Members of Parliament, is identified through our sent offices by the weak individuals who are at odds with the state authorities most often in an unenviable position; these dry and bureaucratic responses are identified. And if I go anywhere, here I agree very much on these findings; and probably also on colleagues and colleagues. The Ombudsman mentioned that he had completed the evening project with the Ombudsman, and he had 13 external businesses where he met with 206 instigators. In 2014, the Ombudsman received 3,000 81 initiatives, received 9 thousand 982 phone calls, 17 thousand 871 different electronic and other messages, and invited 123 initiators to personal talks. According to these figures, the situation on this country's system and subsystem is serious, as the colleague has already mentioned. Some systems and subsystems of this country do not work or act worse than we ever imagined. Because of all those who are talking about serious reforms in certain areas in this country, in particular certain systemic shortcomings, we are also starting to deal with serious reform proposals here in the National Assembly and in the Government. The Ombudsman is disappointed to learn that out of the 154 recommendations he made in 2013, 93 in 2014 were not implemented. It is also through this, the Ombudsman, that we note that reform measures are urgently needed in various areas. If I mention two areas in this report, which I think is extremely important to me, this is the area of justice, which we mention most. In the field of judicial proceedings, the Ombudsman dealt with 577 cases in 2013. The year before – 460, of which 106 were related to criminal proceedings. For example, in 2012 these initiatives were 73; 324 with civil procedures and relations. The year before 267, 29 with proceedings before the labour and social courts; 17, 113 with regard to offences. The number of judicial initiatives has increased earlier than the year, referring to the issue of the effectiveness of the judiciary. In particular, the public commitment to the state of justice, which was signed in June 2013, is being breached, but the situation in this area is not improving. The Ombudsman points out that encouraging data on positive trends, shortening and optimisation of judicial proceedings in relation to the treatment of initiatives in the field of judicial proceedings can be collected on the one hand concerning the longevity of certain judicial proceedings and on the other hand on the quality of the trial. [[...]] The following rights were at the forefront of the initiatives: right to judicial protection, equal protection of rights, right to a remedy, legal guarantees in criminal proceedings. The Ombudsman points out that the President of the Council of Justice has made a detailed note of efforts to improve the situation in the field of the judiciary; in particular, the long-term measures to raise the reputation of the judiciary, to which each judge can benefit most. In particular, it welcomes the revised criteria for the quality of the work of judges and the efforts of the Council of Justice to better regulate the recruitment of judges. A long-term management strategy should be adopted unanimously as a fundamental tool for its success. The Ombudsman also notes that the judicial backlog remains one of the main problems of the judiciary and that there are still problems in the area of ensuring a trial within a reasonable time. This is also reflected in the figures on damages paid, for example infringements pending trial within a reasonable time frame, as well as the decisions of the ECHR. In particular, cases that have ended before the implementation of the Law on the Protection of the Right to Judgement without undue delay and also cases where the court has found that the existing domestic remedies in this area are not sufficient. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are very pleased that the Ombudsman in the field of legal matters also mentions in her last paragraph of this report a definitive solution to the post-war beatings and a decent burial of all victims, including the situation of damages, including all those injured by World War II. [[Incomprehensible]] Let me say in this area that the Huda Cave Association, which brings together the victims and relatives of those killed after World War II, has recently been set up in this area because of a critical, very low-level attitude and a very biased attitude of state institutions. I think that there are thousands of individuals in this society who, together, including your findings, are now seeking to regulate this situation, which is unsustainable, which does not respect the Vienna Convention; where, on many occasions, a respected guardian, as I mentioned several times at the petitions Commission, we forget that there is only one human right that does not go out with its legal nature. Only one human right remains after his death, and this is the fifth right of an individual — that he once existed, that he was a legal person, that he had some rights during his lifetime. The right that remains after death is the right, the pieta, the right of him, especially his loved ones, to have a grave, so that people can remember him and sometimes light a candle on his grave. This right is being violated in Slovenia, even today. We have over 600 recorded postwar graves. Even today, we wonder, even here in the National Assembly, whether we once had totalitarian authority or not; which is unacceptable, as the Constitutional Court has repeatedly stated in its caselaw, what the Supreme Court has also said. It is also unacceptable for us to find out in this institution whether it was a virtual democracy or not in 2015 that such a discourse is taking place. And to that we have in the Slovenian Democratic Party, as you know, always zero tolerance, up to all three totalitarianisms – the Nazi, fascist and communist system. Finally, let me point out that we are extremely pleased that, in addition to the Ombudsman's recommendations, the recommendations of the Slovenian Democratic Party in the field of healthcare and health insurance have been adopted at the Commission's petitions meeting. Let me mention these recommendations, particularly that the National Assembly notes or recommends that the Ministry of Health develop systematic measures to ensure that all types of healthcare controls are more effective. In particular, the State Assembly, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities recommends that, in accordance with the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, a sub-law on the type and degree of physical impairment be drawn up as soon as possible. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in this country, we have quite a few things to resolve so that citizens and citizens have a decent life to live because they have it by the constitution. We will support the 2014 report of the Ombudsman in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We will support all the recommendations made by the Ombudsman, and we will also support those recommendations, which have already been supported by the Committee. On other substantive matters, however, we will continue to discuss the remaining time with the Slovenian Democratic Party's fellow Members in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Tomaž Gantar, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Guardian Mrs. Vlasta Nussdorfer, deputy, colleague and colleague! We have before us the Annual Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014. And this year too, the report is extensive, thorough, for which the Ombudsman, Mrs Vlasta Nussdorfer, with her co-workers, certainly deserves recognition. But the question is, do we all deserve recognition? Have the decision makers — us and the government — really turned things around for the better? Unfortunately, not sufficiently, as the report largely points out the same problems as it did last year and years before. It is true that the number of recommendations has decreased slightly, but we cannot be satisfied with the situation. As it has been shown in the current report last year, the protection of human rights is a difficult task, especially during the economic crisis and recovery, as the crisis of people always strikes at a slow pace and the economic recovery of citizens and citizens has not yet been felt. We are quite accustomed to the crisis, and despite economic growth, the country is cautious and is still saving, which is in principle right, but not at the expense of the most vulnerable. Let me just mention the difficulties we have been negotiating for an extraordinary reconciliation of pensions, although these have not been coordinated for five years and many pensioners have been living below the poverty line. The Ombudsman notes that one fifth of the population lives at high risk of social exclusion, that is 400 thousand people of all age groups. And this is where we failed the exam. Structural reforms, which are crucial for us to be able to tackle the necessary measures to reduce poverty, somehow do not see the light of the world. The Ombudsman’s report is, in a way, a reflection of our society, not the most friendly, and all the problems mentioned have unfortunately become part of our everyday life. The most affected remain older, a generation of young, unemployed, and children who share their parents’ destiny and poverty do not spare them. And despite recommendations, the situation has not changed significantly in one year. It is worrisome that today, even those with a job are struggling to survive; pensioners who receive pensions; and young people who have become a rule and not an exception. This, of course, does not allow young people to move to an adult period and there will certainly be a need for systemic change. At the same time, we are becoming a long-lived society, the life expectancy is increasing, and we also share the Ombudsman's opinion in the parliamentary group that we must answer these questions responsibly and effectively as a society. This is followed by the need for health reform; we urgently need a demographic fund and measures in the area of intergenerational cooperation. We needed the Long-Term Care Act yesterday, and we don't even have a draft for once. Let me stop for a moment with the healthcare findings. It is interesting that the number of initiatives remains the same and the content has changed. The waiting species were no longer in the foreground, but there was a significant increase in drug-related applications and replacements. Controls in health care are also very problematic. We all know the problems of child heart surgery, which is also highlighted by the guardian in her report. We could touch many more, such as low confidence in the legal system, for which they are largely to blame in the judiciary; but I believe that the issue is well-treated in the report. We cannot go beyond the chapter on violence against women, children and the elderly, which is still a pressing problem, even though it is not spoken of out loud. There is a lot going on behind the domestic walls, and we need to start paying more attention to these sensitive topics. The Desus Group will unanimously support the annual report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014; again with the hope that the future report will be shorter and more encouraging. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Ambassador of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear guardian, representative of the government, colleague and colleague! In the National Assembly, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, we make decisions every day that often make too little sense in the lives of the inhabitants and residents of this country. An examination of the Ombudsman’s report on the consequences of these decisions or, more often, a failure to decide will alert us without bureaucratic accusations and legal latours. Consciousness of the situation as it is - the report therefore, after most, is not a collection of good and beautiful, but sets up a mirror in which everyone should recognize and accept his face. But instead of admitting responsibility, we should flee to the shelter of seeking excuses in difficult coalitions or powerless opposition. As the word on time, which heals wounds, also applies to politics, we will feel better about the big financial issues tomorrow. As a memory of an unpleasant report, where each one of us bears at least part of the responsibility, the red on the disgraced faces will fade from day to day. The Ombudsman’s recommendation reminds us of what we should do in order to ensure an effective resolution of constitutionally guaranteed human rights and fundamental freedoms and, therefore, there will be cases that go on year by year and testify to the agony of individuals or groups. As the Ombudsman points out, the vast majority of recommendations remain unfulfilled. Such are 93 out of 154 in 2013. That is why there are few in the treatment that start with the Keeper – the Keeper encourages again, the Keeper recommends again, or we repeat the Guardian. Among other things, the report brings news that strikes at the conscience of those responsible; this is a collection of recommendations from the previous document, accompanied by a vivid illustration of progress. There are few areas in which the Keeper does not detect improvements. These are the areas of housing, pension and disability insurance, health care and health insurance, social affairs and most worrying – the area of the protection of children's rights. Children are our greatest wealth, we like to say; but what do we say when they suffer from violence, poverty, irregular family relationships, learning problems, or poverty. There's something I need to tell you. It was the bearing name of the Project Week of the Child. Often we do not hear them, for they are proclaimed by the calls of Brussels City or by the calls of the domestic idols of the balancing budget. Let them wait a little longer, let us hear; but the waiting is prolonged, increasingly in the age of youth and adulthood – and another generation is lost. It is similar with their Romani peers. They mostly live in inappropriate living units, which is reflected in their health condition, they face problems in education; when they grow up they are hard to employ. Will the government take care to improve the situation in those municipalities that are inoperable, as the Ombudsman suggests?Oh, my God! It also points to our National Assembly for its ostentatious criticism of the Keeper. Let it not be self-criticism that the fundamental principles of the rule of law are often violated. In doing so, it is essential that the Ombudsman firstly draws attention to the adoption of legislation. It is noted that this is not always accepted in a transparent and democratic way; often, however, without the involvement of the interested public, in a quick and reckless manner. We regret the prompt and reckless removal of some of the legal proposals that address the identified human rights violations. Let me just remind you of the efforts we have made in our parliamentary group to address the problem of housing. Unfortunately, most Members and Members refused to try to solve the housing problem of one of the weakest groups and so, without serious consideration, overcame the Ombudsman's recommendations, which reminds housewives of the injustice caused in 2013 and 2014. The watchman not only warns, but also commends. It is therefore right that we follow this example and highlight just a few of the positives that we placed among the big black dots in last year's Group of Social Democrats. We can thus express our satisfaction at the progress made in the field of child and adult protection with special needs in the draft budget for the next two years. We are pleased that after many years, however, the time has come to eliminate the unworthy living situation of children in Stara Gora and to finally start investing in a centre for people with mental impairment in the Fat Rtič. The ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence is also welcome. The so-called Istanbul Convention is the first and at the same time the largest international legal instrument that sets out fully the obligations of the Parties to prevent violence against women, including domestic violence. In view of the government's response report, we rightly hope that such observations on progress in the previously exposed areas will become much more and that the positive symbol used by the Ombudsman to indicate progress will become a constant in all areas. Respected and respected! The nature of the report requires that the National Assembly be treated simultaneously with the budgetary documents. The opportunities for the findings of the report to be more broadly reflected in the budget adopted so far have not been taken advantage of by any government. Prior to the implementation of the Ombudsman's recommendations, there is a requirement for international financial boxes, which also have their supporters in Slovenian policy. These demand public financial sustainability calls for a reduction in the scope of public services and, consequently, forgoes the obligations of respect for human rights. It would be good if the consideration of the report did not result in a loss of credibility for the institution, which is among the most respected and trusted institutions in the country. It is true that the report is extensive to cover the majority of the anomalies that betray all spheres of society; but a single statement of praise to the institution is underestimating to itself and will be underestimated until at least the bulk of the recommendations are implemented. But we can contribute to their realization — and we owe it — by all, regardless of the political power ratio. As it was written in the letter to the week of the child, talking today is a rare thing for which no money is needed. Our opportunity is to turn this conversation into action today. Respected and respected! The Ombudsman often raises the question of whether we are still a social and legal state. No political calculations shall be used to find an answer to it, nor shall it offer individual carefully selected cases. It does not give us a unique answer, even if it is what people want it to be, so that the answer is yes. In the coming months, we will have the opportunity of Members and Members to set our own expectations for strengthening the social and legal state. The right to quality public services in health, education, social welfare and a stable rule of law must remain our common concern. These are the expectations that are the fruit of the will of the Slovenian people, clearly recorded in Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. We support and respect the Ombudsman's recommendations in the Group of Social Democrats. What we understand as a single, substantive and politically impartial whole of the recommendation or report is the additional recommendations made by the Commission on Petitions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate on the report and the proposal for a recommendation. Mr Matjaž German has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u24	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. A respected guardian with a team, representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! The debate on human rights, held today in the National Assembly, takes place in a very sensitive and sensitive period. In addition to the everyday events that take place at home and abroad, we are witnessing the extraordinary events that take place in these days. We had the opportunity to see all these events with a measure of distance, but when events began to take place in front of our doors, we have become and we must be significantly more sensitive to all human rights issues than we have been before. But not to be, this is our nature of man, we should be forever. As this debate should not only take place once a year in the presence of the Ombudsman, but should live this way; not only we Members, but also people. This debate is not just for us, colleagues and colleagues, but for everyone. This is how we live, how we see, why we are here, why we are here, why we are here on Earth, what is our priority – whether it is nature, human, animal, whether it is capital, interest, whether it is an individual or a society. This is exactly the reason, and this is the power of the guardian, so that at least once a year she can knock on our conscience on all of us, and for a moment we can stop and agree on things that are really important in life. I would like to point out some of the facts mentioned in this report. According to the Ombudsman, 93 of the 194 proposals were not implemented in 2013. This is a collection of recommendations from the previous document, which are accompanied by an illustration of some progress. There are few areas in which the Keeper does not detect improvements. This is what needs to be highlighted, and we need to keep talking about it. These are the areas of housing, pension and disability insurance, healthcare and health insurance, social affairs and, in particular, human rights protection. This is what our citizens face every day; in these days you see that it is not just you. They were driven out of the war, they set out on foot, and our face is the one that shows how to accept people. But here I am not just talking about the rights of refugees, migrants; I am also talking about the rights of Slovenians, those on the border who are unable to move, who are deprived of normal life. That's what I'm talking about. About an extremely sensitive period. And right here is our responsibility and our patience to somehow promote the public about the calming of passion. And that's what I'm taking advantage of today's opportunity to talk about and stress. The Ombudsman warned that relatively good processes have taken place in the Republic of Slovenia. What is more negative is that it also reminds us of how Members act in relation to the adoption of legislation. Here we draw attention mainly to the rapid procedures that are being adopted, or we are always talking about exceptional situations and they have been. But from here on out, I think, if there are no extraordinary circumstances that knock on our doors, it is only time for the government or the National Assembly to calm down and set up the course of events that we will be able to follow, which will be more transparent to monitor by our citizens. In this place, like my spokeswoman, I must nevertheless express some kind of appreciation to the Government, that only — and because I am coming out of this area — have begun to solve the problems affecting my territory, namely Primorska, where I am, in one way or another, a resident of these districts. I'm talking about Old Mountain and Fat Rite. In the past, our efforts in our party have also been designed to save housing. Unfortunately, we have not received such consensus from our colleagues and colleagues that one of the weakest groups in our country could somehow be protected. We can also express some satisfaction at the progress that has been made with regard to the protection of children and adults with special needs, as I have already said, on the Old Mountain and the Fat Ritz. We must not forget the quality of public services, education, social care, a stable rule of law – this is the foundation that enables all groups of our country to develop normally. At this point, I would add that the Social Democrats support the report and in particular support the recommendation in the part where we will in some way speed up the procedures. I would like to thank the Ombudsman at this point for constantly warning us with a more thorough review of the activities and inactions that our country and our society have adopted and rejected in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irena Grošelj Kosnik has the floor. Mrs Marija Bachič should be prepared and Mrs Vesna Vervega should be prepared for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u26	Honourable Vice-President, representatives of the Ombudsman and respected member of the Government; colleagues and colleagues! Today we are discussing the Ombudsman's report for 2014 and the Ombudsman also mentions the phenomenon of poverty. I focused myself on this particular phenomenon because Saturday was the world day of the fight against poverty. It has been accepted by the General Assembly of the United Nations to enlighten us about this phenomenon, for we need to develop again and again the sensitivity that there are people among us who are in material and other distress. We know that the risk of poverty has begun to deepen at the time of the recession and has deepened until last year. Fortunately, it stopped last year and I expect that this will continue, that it may even begin to decrease, which would really be necessary, as we have 14.5% of people or 290,000 people living under the poverty threshold. They are most at risk, the largest group is among pensioners, followed by unemployed persons, minors and, unfortunately, some employees. It is true that last year there was a slight increase in household income available, but the rate of poverty remained at the same level. Members should be concerned that such legislation will be adopted to allow such social and economic policies to have an impact on this phenomenon. I believe that we Members have already taken a few steps in this direction this year. Let me mention that we have allowed free school meals to be released, that we have allowed the most vulnerable groups of people to apply for debt write-offs for the most pressing necessities of life and that there is legislation at the door that we will naturally support by SMC Members. This legislation will increase the level of financial social assistance, more families will be entitled to a child allowance and more children will be eligible for a scholarship. This must be some important shock absorber for the emergence of poverty. The second part of the medal is an appropriate economic policy in order to preserve economic growth in order to open jobs; I believe that employment, when you are able to take care of yourself and your family, is the best prevention and also the best sense of confidence. We have such a social policy to act on purpose. This means that it is focused on those who really need it. And I think it is, too, because we will never have enough budgetary resources to make certain rights universal; or we will not have such a good time. This is probably why our social system of social transfers is very complicated and some people find it very difficult to find themselves in this system. This system not only means closer social rights, it also affects housing, health insurance, education and more. That is why I think we would need – and this is also mentioned by the Ombudsman in his report – a point where citizens could get quality and reliable information, where they turn and how. At the same time, I would like to point out that we have already had informants at social work centres funded by European funds. Now these programmes have been completed, and I think it would be worth reconsidering the introduction of such informants, which would raise awareness more; not only for tighter social rights, but for the whole system, which, as I have already said, is very complicated for us. I would also like to point out that I believe that humanitarian organisations are working very well with us, and that they are very well complemented by a state aid system that operates and acts in accordance with the administrative procedure. But humanitarian organisations can help immediately, here and now, without making decisions and as soon as they detect the distress of the people on the ground. I think that the state must continue to support them by co-financing and allow them to function well. At the same time, I would like to point out that I am pleased to see the Slovenians show that we still have a sense of cohabitation, that we are solidarity and that we are ready to help. This is demonstrated by a number of well-organised charity actions, to which Slovenians respond very well. I'm glad to live in a country like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Bachič has the floor. Let Mrs Vesna Vervega prepare for her, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nicely greeted, Madam Guardian with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! I would like to express my appreciation to the Ombudsman for the well-prepared report. It is commendable to see the guardian monitor, warn and strive for the same and equal life of all citizens. In this report, I was more attentive to the rights of people with disabilities. I would like in particular to touch on the transport of persons with mental disabilities who attend specific education and education programmes from 18 to 26 years of age and do not belong to the payment of transport. They are in an unequal position with persons visiting the work centres. I would point out that everyone gets the same allowance for disability. Some are entitled to transport and others are not. Parents would certainly want to include their adolescents in the work centres, but we all know that they are full of waiting times. Therefore, they must have them in schools until the capacity of the work centres is relaxed. The Ombudsman correctly notes that persons with mental disabilities who attend a specific school programme with an adjusted programme or special programme are in an unequal position with those attending the work centres. Inadequate legislation constitutes a violation of the first indent of Article 6(2) of the Law on the Equalization of the Possibilities of Persons with Disabilities and Article 2 of the same Act. The following warning concerns discrimination in the transport of motorized students. We know that under the Road Transport Act, students are provided with a subsidised ticket, which unfortunately is not useful to students who are physically disabled. Therefore, there will be a great deal of warning to the need for this area to be resolved in some way. We could still talk about what the guardian is alerting us to. Lack of early treatment of children with mental disorders, children with autistic disorders, children with Down syndrome, which should be accessible throughout the country. The next problem the guardian warns about is the availability of official documents to all persons with disabilities or to persons with reading problems – these are older people, foreigners, persons with mental disabilities, deaf people, visually impaired persons and so on – in it, accessible fonts, readable techniques can be said by a corresponding increase in letters. These persons also wish to read their own decisions, medical examinations or documents. The rights of the disabled, the elderly, the vulnerable and the powerless are and must remain our common concern. Therefore, let us all work together to ensure that there is as little or no discrimination as possible; and in the 2015 report, only the star can be at all points. We will certainly support the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mrs Vesna Vervega has the word, followed by Mr Jožef Horvat, then Mag. Tanya Zink.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Respectable guardian, colleague and colleague! Slovenia and citizens of Slovenia are likely to be facing the biggest challenge so far. The circumstances in which we have come to be require, above all, patience and understanding. We will continue to work at all levels to primarily protect our citizens and offer human relations to those people who are on this path in search of a better life. Now for the annual report. I also focused more on that chapter in the annual report on children's rights this year. Compared to last year's report, I am pleased to note that some of the problems raised at the time are not in this year's report. For example, the implementation of secondary education in the hospital school is not particularly exposed. I also did not see any problems with the quality of education at home, where last year you even recommended that the Ministry of Education study the subject and possibly supplement the Basic School Act. Of course, some data in this year's report are more worrying than last year's, despite the fact that the number of children's rights cases has been reduced this year. It is concerned that as many as 44,5 % of the cases resolved are justified, which shows the exceptional importance of this area on the one hand, and, on the other, I also raise a number of questions concerning the proper protection of children's rights. I also welcome the movement in the field of publishing children in the media. Guidelines have been issued in cooperation with NGOs and the Ministry of the Interior to report on children in the media, in particular as regards the protection of their personality, which should help journalists and editors. When treating and educating children with emotional and behavioural disorders, a lack of professional authority has been identified in all areas of special and rehabilitation pedagogy and the fact that professionals are left to themselves. The problem is that there are no rules on how to deal with these children in exceptional situations. In this regard, you also recommend that the Ministry of Education prepare a protocol of conduct in these institutions where these children are involved. I also agree with this recommendation and will work towards this. With regard to the project, the advocacy voice of children, as stated in the report, is still awaiting the implementation of the conclusions of the National Assembly on the preparation of a special law that will institutionalise the defence of children in an independent and independent legal person. You are currently very successful in implementing this project under your auspices and all praises for it. In view of the fact that there are 63 initiatives this year to put in place an advocate, I believe that this should be settled as soon as possible. I would also like to touch on the Conference on the Participation of Children and Adolescents, held in November 2014 in the National Assembly. In this annual report, you recommend to the Government that it address the recommendations of the conference, so it takes the necessary measures to implement those recommendations that could be taken into account. Among these recommendations, or as young people, we have addressed some in the National Assembly; for example, the introduction of a learning class that will enable the acquisition of skills and skills for citizenship and democracy, then we have also addressed the issue of violence in school. So these things are still valid, the right to participate in children and adolescents, I would say, even more. Let me conclude my debate with the desire that the next report be even shorter, I think mainly with regard to the number of initiatives, and that as many of the recommendations as you made in this report would be implemented by next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u31	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Get ready, mags. Tanja Zink and Mrs. Marinka Levičar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President of the National Assembly. The debate on the report on the work of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia must require the greatest possible degree of sensitivity. Perhaps it would be better if this report, now number 20, had the title of the Report on the State of Human Rights in the Republic of Slovenia for the past year, because it is in fact this. This report speaks of this. I don't care how the body itself works, what the technology of work is, what the methods of work are. I'm interested in the situation. This report is actually a good report on the state of human rights protection in the Republic of Slovenia. The fact is, in our understanding, in my personal understanding, that the dignity of a human being is the foundation of human rights. It's a human rights foundation. When we ask ourselves what our relationship to the dignity of human beings is, of course, the answer is how human rights are respected in our country. It's not a static matter. We have made remarkable progress in the development of science, medicine and so on, so in fact, the view of the protection of human rights, the protection of the dignity of human beings over time, of course, is changing. I often say that people are not the same. We're not the same, we're not equal. We're not equal. But we're equal. In this context, we should also somehow understand this biggest challenge, which is not the least ahead of Europe, this refugee wave, which has also been touched by colleague Vesna. People are equal! I continue with the content that we may not have touched today, perhaps we will, this is the area of palliative care; the institution House hospic. We discussed this acute issue at a special meeting of the competent committee. The Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities then ensured that the problem was resolved. At this point, I welcome the representatives of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, because they must be watching us on television. But the problem is not solved. We are simply this part of palliative care, which in our country documents is well enough, firmly enough written, but as long as it is only in some declaration documents, as long as it is in some resolutions, then simply does not come into reality, there is no realisation and it seems that in Slovenia there is a few light years from the resolution to the realization of a few light years, if I exaggerate a little. I'm glad the Slovenians are a strange nation, as I mentioned yesterday, where the word "weird" is superlative. We have many philanthropic organisations, but they are not treated equally by the State and should be treated equally. Let's see, let's say, just the Red Cross -- we have the Red Cross Act -- and let's see Karitas! Yes, you've been treated differently! It would be good if they were treated the same way by the State. We like to boast that we have many voluntary fire companies, voluntary firefighters. I am very glad that young people are opting for voluntary firefighting. I know the cases in my village – 160 households and as many as two youth firefighters go to the national competition! Today, in some youths, it is almost a status symbol to be a firefighter. It pleases me, but we, the country, the legislative branch of power, the government – have we regulated the status of a volunteer firefighter? We didn't! No government, I will not criticize this government alone now, no government has this corrosive power to regulate this status. But all the best about firefighters when they really go into action when it's necessary, because they can do it because they're trained permanently and because they're human-loving people because they know what the dignity of a man or a human being means. I will touch another issue that may not be part of today's debate. These are various ads that we consumers experience, we absorb if you want, and they're fake, they're fake, they're harmful to us people, unless we're educated enough, they're careful enough to be ignored. So many stupid theories about a healthy life as never before today. The theory of a healthy way of life offers us many things. So, consumers are often ignorant, bought and pretended to live healthy. This is possible only one segment that I can understand as some way of violating human rights based on respect for human dignity. What is this respect for human dignity if someone, forgive me the expression, fur with some theories and products that are supposed to mean a healthy way of life? As I have already announced in the presentation of the Group's position, we welcome this report, thank you, Madam Guardian, and all your colleagues. In a way, we, colleagues and colleagues, have to make a promise, a commitment that we will also respect these recommendations. This is a very good political programme for each of the political parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u33	The word has magic. Tanya Zink. Prepare Mrs. Marinka Levičar and Mr. Škoberne.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u34	Honourable President of the National Assembly, respected guardian of the team, representative of the Government, colleague and colleague! Today we are discussing an extremely important document, this is the Ombudsman's 2014 Annual Report. In my opinion, this is a report that should be read by every citizen, and in particular every policy, because we must be aware that the protection and exercise of human rights and fundamental freedoms is essentially the first task of governments. October 17th is the international day against poverty. In Slovenia, 14.5% of people live below the poverty threshold, which is not small, and this needs to be taken with all seriousness and concern. However, the data, which nevertheless cheers up, is that the level of poverty risk in 2014 was the same as in the year after year. Another very important information is that we have an effective system of social transfers with which, according to the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, the level of poverty risk is almost halved, otherwise it would be 25 %. The report states that the biggest problem in the area of social security is the increasing poverty of those who do not have any regular income, except social assistance. I am pleased that this government is working to do everything necessary for the socially weak individuals and families. If I may recall, in the past year, a number of measures have been taken to address the most socially weak, namely debt write-offs, debt relief and the introduction of a pre-paid card aimed at directing and using social transfers. There is also a very important amendment to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance, which does not allow enforcement on matters necessary to meet the basic needs of the debtor. Looking at the situation on the labour market, we find that in September this year almost 7% of the registered unemployed were less registered than in September last year. In view of the new year's economic growth, there is also a partial abolition of austerity measures and thus an increase in certain social transfers, including monetary social assistance. This is certainly data that should have an impact on improving the social situation of those living below the poverty line, but we know that economic growth has the slowest impact on the weakest part of society. In the context of poverty, special mention should be made of children as one of the most vulnerable groups. Indeed, we must be aware that poverty can have very far-reaching consequences on the lives of children, of course, negative. Especially when it comes to already rooted poverty in families, this pattern begins to be passed on from generation to generation, and in this case we can already talk about a culture of poverty. Thus, poverty is certainly a very big challenge today, not only for the country, but for society at all. It is therefore right that the country should approach the problem in an integrated way by creating conditions for a decent life, i.e. by increasing employment opportunities, especially for vulnerable groups of the population, because this is the only way to ensure independence or financial security. Let me also mention the situation of women. Indeed, according to the Statistics Office, women in particular have a higher risk of poverty than men, especially in over 60 years of age who live alone and in women who live in single-parent families. We are about to adopt another very important document, a resolution on the national programme on equal opportunities for women and men for the period 2015 to 2020, which also aims to address gender inequalities as well as exposure to poverty. When I read your report, I was in a big dilemma about what I would specifically point out, because all the areas you cover are very important for people's lives and, above all, this content must be taught what else needs to be done or changed so that human rights violations and fundamental freedoms do not occur. As has already been said, in the SMC Group, we estimate that the Ombudsman is doing her work in a quality and fully in accordance with his mission and therefore we support him. In particular, I would like once again to welcome what I am already doing on the Commission for Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, namely, that you are doing a lot of your work on the ground where people's lives are taking place, because this seems to me to be of great importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u35	Mrs. Marinka Levicar has the floor. Prepare Mr. Jan Škoberne and the Mag. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear guardian with co-workers, distinguished representative of the Ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, welcome! First, I would like to commend the work of the guardian and her coworkers. Their work is evident from the annual report they have prepared for us, and I think they have indeed done an important job for our citizens and citizens. I would only like to see more of the work they have done get results. While I am pleased that there are a few fewer recommendations than last year and that the supply is also slightly lower, the guardian and co-workers still have a lot of work to do in the future. In particular, because we note that their recommendations are not being implemented as they should be. At the outset, I would also like to highlight the format of this report. Some of you said it was hard to understand and it was long. It's a long time, but I have to thank you from a technical point of view, and it's prepared so that you can fly over it very quickly and find only the things that are essential to you. From a technical point of view, it is truly unique, so much to commend the Ombudsman and continue in the field of how these reports are prepared not only for some long-term rejection of reading. In this case, it is really interesting to read everything at the edge, which is highlighted. Well, now for a brief discussion of the content of the recommendations. I am most sad that these recommendations have not been sufficiently taken into account at the level of government as an executive, that we, Members, have not accepted, because the government has also not proposed to us, appropriate legislation that the judiciary has not done so, as the Ombudsman recommends that the municipal authorities and other bodies at the municipal level do not take these recommendations sufficiently into account. I would expect more clarification from the Government as to why the ministries have failed to implement certain recommendations made by the Ombudsman. In this way, I would specifically ask the Government representative to answer us now or at some point further explain this response report to the Government, because he stressed that the Government has prepared a response report, but I would like to get better acquainted with it if possible, even in writing later. In particular, I would like to point out to the Ministry of the Interior why they have not settled the emergency situation, as the Ombudsman points out, in the area of the regulation of permanent residence. You know, the representatives of the Government and the Ministry of the Interior, how important it is that people have a permanent residence, because this does not give them any social rights and other rights in this area. I am pleased that a national policy strategy on housing is being prepared. I think he's in preparation now, as we've heard, and I welcome that. Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. First of all, let me commend the Ombudsman's recommendations made last year to regulate pensions or dual status between pension recipients and espouses and other gainful activities carried out by pensioners, to ensure that this is now being achieved and that this law, which will regulate it, is being harmonised. However, it does not seem right to me that so long has not been regulated in the field of disability insurance, the field of occupational diseases, when we know, especially the representatives of the ministry, that this problem has been burning and it has been going on for a very long time. In addition, the Ombudsman recommended that the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities be prepared by the end of 2014 to analyse the effects of the implementation of STIZ-2. Well, we are now the end of 2015, and we will soon be, and we have nothing in this area yet. They promise us a white book on pension and disability insurance, but I think that the analysis of the effects of PPIZ-2 would also be important to know what measures have been taken, which have not been taken and what needs to be improved to relieve the state budget in this area, and that at the same time the rights will not be violated, that pensions will not continue to decline, as is the current trend, as is the case with PPIZ-2, which also increases poverty among older people, which they have already pointed out, especially to this problem, to colleagues from SMC. Since the Ministry of Labour is also concerned with the partial operation of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office, the Ombudsman points out that it has been waiting too long for the solutions provided for in this Decision which recognise the rights under this insurance. The report on the work of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office was recently addressed by the parental committee, which is the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs, supported it, but I do not know if they were critical of this long-term resolution. I know that this is somehow excused that PIZ has an excuse to work so long, because it has too much supply of claims and because workers are too few working in this area. Therefore, other ministries should think a little about strengthening work in areas of vital importance to our citizens and citizens in order to reduce administrative work and to speed up indeed work in those areas which, as I said, are vital to the realization of the rights of citizens and citizens in all areas, of course also in the pension area. I don't mean to criticize the pension institution because I know it's really making every effort to make the procedures as short as possible, but because there are obstacles in the personnel, the situation is as it is. The Ministry of Health - the Ombudsman notes that the situation has worsened, that there is no law or area that would be better regulated than it was, which would indicate that anything is improving. That is why I am also calling on the Ministry of Health to do something to make our citizens and citizens feel better in this area. It is important to me how citizens and citizens feel, not only that some laws are being prepared, which will not have a direct impact on improving access to health services, on the quality of these services, and on everything that affects better feeling, mentally and physically, of course, of our citizens. Finally, let me express my dissatisfaction that so few Members are here by the SDS. At present, I see only one, but there were two or three of them, but the SDS has already warned many times, called extraordinary meetings or proposed extraordinary meetings to discuss how Slovenia is low on international human rights scales; today, when we can say more constructively, I see that they are not. So much for closure. Once again, thank the Ombudsman for the report so beautifully prepared and for their efforts to make the situation better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u37	Mr. Jan Škoberne has the floor. Get ready, mags. Lilliana Kozlovich and Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u38	Dear Mr President, a respected guardian, a colleague and a colleague! First, of course, the conclusion, as with all others, that this is an extremely correct report, which could probably go even further in its contents, which could raise more questions in some part, but the extent already presented is exceptional; an exceptional provision for both us, who have to consider legislative solutions in response to this report, and for the government, which this report is committed to rapid action and, in particular, that the things recorded in this report would not be found too often in the following. This is indeed the biggest problem of the culture of political decision-making and action in Slovenia that we can read too often in this report, "as we have already written in the previous year and in another year". Here we bear responsibility on both sides, both in coalition, in government ranks and, of course, on the opposition side. For example, at the Ombudsman’s family relationship point, the Ombudsman’s report notes that, like last year’s, the lack of solutions presented at the referendum is uniquely felt by the rejected family code. That solutions were presented there that could help regulate family relationships differently to protect the child more. However, the referendum was called, and since it was called on, the law could also be rejected. Here is the issue of political culture and the ability to assess the long-term decisions we make. On the other hand, we have seen through the Ombudsman's report for years that we have had a group of housewives, housing beneficiaries who have been deprived of their rights for years or years, and we have also found that there was no such thing in the congregation. In the core more than the content of the report we are discussing today, the subject of today's debate may be our relationship to the findings and the ability to prevent the findings from being repeated in the next year's report. When there is an opportunity for such a debate, however, it is also important to note the critical points where we estimate that there is little attention on certain topics. Surely one of the biggest challenges of domestic violence is that we need to pay more attention to the fact that there is still a logic in our country, that when domestic violence occurs, the victim goes away, not the abuser, that on the other hand the lack of programmes and activities for the rehabilitation of the abuser, because his or her return to the community is just as dangerous and action in this area is just as dangerous as failure to act in the event of violence itself. On the other hand, many reports from NGOs, such as in the field of human trafficking, tell and hear stories that are so shocking that it seems impossible for us not to act. And yet we still have documented known stories about forced marriages, about family trafficking in children, about extremely inhumane conduct within a family or within a community that owns a human being as a right and an object of trade. These key things need to be warned. The Devil is always in detail and this devil is in this detail that the question of when this meeting will be forgotten today until the next report. Since it is one thing to talk here today, and the other is that it often happens to us that the things that we agree on here today at all points – for example, that there must be no more interference with the social standard right, that this is part of the threat to fundamental rights, that the family relations that he regulated — not necessarily well enough — should be regulated, the law that fell in the referendum, and now years ago and before the call of this national assembly, I can still hope in these reports that they will not be found there again in the following year. [[…]] As a matter of fact, because of the urgent need to change this perception of political culture and the far-reachingness of our responsibilities, this report could be addressed several times a year also with the question of whether we ourselves are meeting the standards that we set here once a year for discussion. Successful work and as few cases as possible in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u39	The word has magic. Lilliana Kozlovich. Prepare Luka Mesec and Mr Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u40	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear guardian, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Let me first express my deep respect for both the Ombudsman and the institution and the entire system of human rights protection that we have established in the field or in the European Union, because I think it is this system that we have established that allows us to live a life of dignity and freedom. That is also evidence of the fact that many people want to come to this area. We see what the situation is. They wish they could live as we do. As has already been said today, it is right that we also offer them human rights to offer them humanitarianism and perhaps at these moments of impatience, which sometimes occurs, we may wish that you, too, with your authority, inform those who are somehow impatient that human rights belong to everyone, as you have said, both to our inhabitants and to those who come to this area. When I look at the report, I find that there are slightly fewer complaints or recommendations this year. You're wondering, of course, because there's a lot of unrealisation left if we accepted it with a fig in our pocket and confirmed it last year. Let me assure you there is no way. To be aware of our responsibilities and sense of what needs to be done, and sometimes the objective facts that make it impossible for things to settle so quickly. In fact, you have already warned yourself that political stability is of the utmost importance. It hasn't been there lately, and that seems to me to be one of the key reasons why things don't work out so quickly. This is also the case with the policy that it is trying to maintain this political stability. Undoubtedly, one of the reasons, Mr Horvat said, was that these things, or those violations, had been committed for decades as well. It is extremely difficult to establish a normal state process, it is significantly easier to cause some kind of chaotic state, so it is extremely difficult in one year to resolve even those situations that are so even more conflictsome in society. There is a need for consensus, and it takes a very long time for matters to be settled. Another reason that may have contributed objectively is the collision of two rights. Indeed, you also point out that legislation is fast being passed, that there is no public awareness, and here we do have a resolution of normative activities that we are obliged to respect. True, last year our government adopted several laws following an emergency procedure during those first months of rule. However, we have advocated, and in doing so, we are also making sure that these laws are significantly lower under the urgent procedure. Most of the laws or at least half of them are those treated on a regular basis. The fact that they are treated on a regular basis, of course, takes time, is why the solutions are somewhat delayed; it is not said in one year, but perhaps for a slightly longer period. Further, when we talk about rights, we know that sometimes they really bump into each other. Let's take a look. There has been a lot of criticism in the public sector, it says, in administrative matters. It needs restructuring, its effectiveness, but when we try to regulate these matters, we run into union freedom. We are preparing legislation that we want to regulate and, as has been said, reward good and bad punishments or deny them a certain right. However, we are running into a strong right to union freedom, unrelentingly defending the existence of certain rights and absolutely not allowing matters to be settled. These are also areas that prevent matters from being resolved more quickly. There is no doubt that there is a financial obstacle; we cannot ignore it. The economic crisis that has taken place, of course, is not solely the result of the government itself, but is certainly the whole economic situation in the world; and, on the one hand, if we want to guarantee all these rights, we must first ensure financial stability in the country. Last year we faced a budget that was drawn up in the past year, it needed to be balanced, and now that there is a slightly higher economic growth, these rights, which are linked to financial resources, can also be realized. Let me say that a number of such rights that have been violated so far are ongoing and are being resolved, in fact, on this financial issue. This is, for example, a Roma issue, for the living situation; this is where the strategy is being prepared and financial resources are being provided. An independent state institution for human rights is being prepared, as you have pointed out. Public transport of persons with disabilities – a lot of resources are earmarked for the probation service to be established. It is also in the process of regulating – but we know that this is an extremely difficult legislation that requires a two-thirds majority – and is regulated by the disabled voter and by the post office. Furthermore, the introduction of water into the constitution, which you also mention. It's a chimney service, a cemetery, a housing strategy, and a lot more. Certainly, when we consider this report — perhaps even from the consideration of last year’s report — I am sometimes a little critical. In fact, I always say that justice cannot exist without its correlation, that is, without its responsibility and that no right is absolute, that justice also has its limits. This is because sometimes certain rights are abused and go beyond what is permissible. If I look at how we understand the social state. You are also wondering whether Slovenia is still a social state. Sometimes it seems to me that expectations for this social state are exaggerated, that we may sometimes misinterpret what the concept of a social state is. Many times, too, there is expectation over what actually belongs to someone. Further when we touch the area of justice. I absolutely agree with you that there is still a great deal to be done in the judiciary. This is an independent branch of government and, unfortunately, we have a major problem in Slovenia with the notion of this independence. We also understand it as absolute independence. We face the same problem sometimes in local self-government, and in universities, in another area. Otherwise, you point out that certain measures taken against the judge should be taken in the discipline, criminal or indemnity area. I would be a little critical here: it is important that the system as a whole works, but we must maintain the dignity of individual judges. It is not important to make public whether a particular judge has been punished or not being punished, but that the system works as a whole. Here I would be referring exactly to your thinking that police procedures should not be carried out in a series of media lights, and it seems to me that we should treat justice the same way. This, however, is because it is also the political side of justice that so many times has unjustifiably discredited, and these things then make it impossible for a real opinion to be generated in public, but things are always generalised. I mentioned administrative matters earlier. In fact, there is a worrying increase in cases, for 11% more infringements you find. You highlighted it in particular, and it was also said by a colleague that the registration of residence was first. It is true that a residence application is an extremely difficult situation when it comes to those persons who lose their right to address, because they also lose all rights on this basis. In fact, we have such a system that a huge amount of rights are attached to the application of residences. But that's what I'm saying from my practice, what's going on in this area. In fact, the fact that someone has no place to apply and does not apply comes from a civil relationship that is very often disorderly and takes place behind four walls between the landlord and the tenant. In fact, it is people who do not want to allow these people to sign up, even if they live there, because of the experience they have had in the past, that individuals have abused the title, hidden themselves, or misused the address, to be in the name of execution or something else. They haven't checked out, and this is where the legislator has been dealing with this issue for years, but he's been running into a problem again. When trying to determine this area, the application of residence, which is essentially just registration, is understood as restricting the right to freedom of movement if it were to do so. In fact, it is an individual’s duty to regulate his application on an up-to-date basis, and this address has given rise to such a serious problem in this area. Here, I am also interested in how you, as a guardian, view exactly what I said in the introduction, how you view the rights holders who abuse these rights, in order to take advantage of some of their other rights, because very often these applications are fictitious, just to obtain a right, or to avoid some of their obligations. You've also exposed inspection services, black construction. The same here, if people respected legislation, this drastic problem would not have occurred much. In fact, there are two worlds; one is the world of life, one is the world of legality. We have decided, the whole democracy is true, that we will establish order and some security with legislation, but the thing also us, right holders, is that we respect it. The country is trying, changing legislation, every time it realizes that some relationships are out of order, but our people are extremely innovative, how they will not respect it again. Here I think sometimes people need to be addressed from this address. As far as the Law on International Protection is concerned, as the United Left has recommended, let me just say that this is a process, it is also essentially a regulation of the European Union which needs to be implemented in order to be in the stage of adoption, but its immediate adoption is not possible because of the legislation we have. In fact, it's a regular procedure, the whole law is changing and you can't do it in a short or urgent way, and public debate is needed, so let me just say that it's in the stage of adoption. You have also pointed out the code of ethics, that is, our responsible conduct in Parliament and it is true that we are responsible for what we say. The force is simple when we say ethics, we understand in two fields: the question of what is right and what is wrong. But when we go into this, we find that this has created a whole branch in the field of philosophy, theory, and this is an extremely difficult question, and try, even in Parliament, to adopt a code of ethics, to come across this question of the diametric view of what is right and what is wrong. Thus, unfortunately, this attempt has not been accepted in a number of references that have tried to do so. For I believe that if we could agree, and if people in general could talk, then we would not need either legislation or the state, because they themselves would know what is right and what is wrong. However, I thank you, the Guardian, for all your contribution and, of course, it is our commitment and our responsibility to realize what you are warning us about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u41	The word is Luke the Moon. Prepare Mr Jani Möderndorfer and Mrs Ksenija Korenjak Kramar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I would like first to thank the Ombudsman for his weighty report. The National Assembly, especially the Coalition and the Government, has warned that everything in it is too often read a reference to last year's, pre-Last, and so on, since unfortunately most, at least that is the practice, most of the Ombudsman's recommendations do not apply. Of last year's 154, for example, 93 remain unrealized, and that's why things, problems involving human rights violations, over the years, are chained and amassed. I, too, as a many colleague who spoke before me, care that these reports will be thicker every year, so my general call is that we all take this report seriously, that as the opposition to the things that are written here, we seriously warn throughout the year, the coalition, and this can serve you essentially as a "blue print" for the solutions that we need as a country and as a society this year. I will briefly touch just one area, I will not talk about the general, because the predecessors have already said much, and the area I will touch is labour legislation. Here we know that, especially after the crisis, after the start of the credit crunch, after the liquidity problems faced by businesses and so on, problems with labour legislation are already piling up. We have even 30,000 more companies registered than 6 years ago, this year there were 193,000, and on the other hand, the labour market situation is becoming more acute and there are increasing problems such as non-payment of salaries, non-payment of contributions, bullying on the job, black employment, chastity, we still have the unresolved problem of volunteering and so on. In short, it seems that over the years we have returned to some period before the signing of the Philadelphia Declaration on Labour and Social Rights, and it seems that even the rights that our legislation and our constitution guarantee us are increasingly denied. They may be abandoned because of their will or negligence on the part of employers, but also because of the conditions in which the companies are located. However, in every way, we must strive to ensure that the existing level of rights is defended and not just defended, that rights where workers are not adequately regulated, such as volunteering, laxative work, youth employment and so on, are arranged in a decent manner as soon as possible. For this year, we have drawn up two concrete reports in the United Left, which are quite easy to implement, the first being that, given the increase in the number of violations of labour legislation and the increase in the number of legal entities, there is an increase in resources for the Inspectorate. In fact, at the same time that the number of companies operating in Slovenia has grown from 163 to 193 thousand, the number of inspectors has decreased from 88 to 80 and we know that it is totally unrealistic for 80 inspectors to control almost 200,000 companies and possible violations of labour law in them. Therefore, at this point and later, when we consider the budget, we call for funds to be increased to this end in order to prevent violations of the labour law and of the general labour rights already adopted by the former Philadelphia Treaty more than 70 years ago. The second recommendation is to ensure that workers are paid as a priority in bankruptcy proceedings. In fact, we are now in a state where bankruptcy procedures are increasing, unfortunately, employees in companies are staying somewhere at the end of a chain of creditors when there is, if there is, bankruptcy. First, all the others and even the banks are paid, and then the people who have worked come, and many can only be wiped under the nose for their earned wages, which should be paid for due to the disorderly bankruptcy procedure that puts employees at the end of the chain. That is why we also propose that employees be given a priority, because first of all it is necessary to pay the weakest, but first of all it is necessary to ensure a decent payment for a decent job. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u43	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor. Prepare Mrs Ksenija Rootjak Kramar and Mr Primož Hainz.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u44	Thank you very much, President. I'll skip the intros and all because I have too little time and I'd rather avoid epic latitude to get to the point. I will particularly touch on the part from which you yourself mentioned it in the part where you speak about the ethics of the public word, but above all it seems very important to me because you have been reminding yourself of the so-called hate speech for years. I must say that from year to year we are becoming increasingly tolerant of hate speech in Slovenia. What's more, I think I even heard on the last board, someone said he liked it, because we said everything wasn't a hate speech. No, of course not all hate speech, I agree, and I also agree that we are in a democratic space where freedom of speech also has its purpose, its purpose, and I think that is one of the great values. Sadly, however, there is no problem with people who know what freedom of speech means. The problem is with people who exploit freedom of speech so that they can use hate speech. Here is this blinded border, which is mostly problematic and not known by some, but in fact, most people do, and they actually do. As a guardian, you have already called, especially for policies, that they should be patient and not implement or promote hatred and intolerance and thus introduce a new culture into the performance. It is true, however, that we have a problem because in reality we do not even realize that something is more powerful if one of the ordinary citizens uses hate speech, or someone who in their public performances, where the media accompany it, is even stronger, especially because then all people think that this is also allowed and that this has become a practice. In fact, we're kind of entering new patterns, so it's a new folklore, and I'm basically saying that we're increasingly tolerant of hate speech. What is the law in this area? There are extremely few cases in which to hang themselves. But what's even worse is that it's extremely hard to prove. We all know that the hate speech that began to be discussed stopped in the mills, because it is often the problem because it is not the right practice. So I really have to say that I am joining this call myself, and at the same time, I expect that we will do more on this. For, unlike the Slovenians, the Council of Europe calls on all members to do something concrete within the legislation. Actually, I think it's time to talk about zero tolerance, which concerns hate speech, not tolerance. But about zero tolerance! Especially because we know that hate speech actually touches minorities, individual groups that are vulnerable. I'm talking about poverty, I'm talking about homophobia, I'm talking about people who are out of a job, I'm talking about all of those who, for the most part, can't even defend themselves, or they don't even know. For this reason, I think this call is very important, but I expect that we can do something concrete, and that is why I also take this opportunity to call on the government representatives to do something concrete in the legislation regarding the separation of borders between freedom of speech and hate speech. Unfortunately, we find ourselves increasingly and more in a situation where something has to happen to someone, so that we can say that someone has had a really hostile speech. Finally, let me mention this part, which some also show, of hate speech on websites, especially in comments. Some websites have even started closing forums for certain topics because they have made it clear that this is the only way they can control it, so to speak, they prevent it. What are we gonna do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mrs. Xenia Krenjak Kramar has the floor. Mr Primož Hainz, followed by Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u46	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In my debate, I would first like to respond to a discussion by my colleague Luke, who discussed the treatment of workers in bankruptcy and their claims. Let me just remind you, I will not waste too much time on this subject, namely the Financial Business Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination. Article 21 precisely sets out the priority claims, including the salaries and compensations of the worker, so that I cannot agree with him that they are on the tail when we are talking about bankruptcy. The Articles of the Labour Relations Act, from Articles 97 to 105, also provide for the rights and priority treatment of workers in the event of bankruptcy and forcible settlement, which are also referred to here. So much for explaining that there would be no misinterpretation. I myself wanted to touch on three areas, namely, the legal aid voucher, effective legal advice and payment of court fees. I very much welcome and actually thank the Ombudsman for the extensive and in-depth report that we have before us and that we are discussing today. In this place, I thank you for your contribution, for such an essentially in-depth treatment, to your personal sensitivity and efforts for vulnerable groups, and I would like this to remain in the future. So truly all thanks for your efforts and for your efforts. However, I would like to say that there is certainly a fundamental concern for respect for human rights in vulnerable groups and in socially weak groups in order to ensure effective legal protection. In this regard, of course, it is also necessary to ensure, in particular our task, that there is no rapid change in legislation, as my predecessors have already warned, because it creates a secure environment and also allows for monitoring and awareness of legislation alone. It creates a space of security not only for us, citizens of individuals, but also for the economic environment. Thus, all efforts should also be directed in this direction in order to ensure such an environment and to ensure that there is a continuity and a time-consuming scope of time, that there is no change in the short term and that these are not too common, i.e. one after another. With regard to the legal aid voucher, it is necessary to say that, as far as I am aware, the Ministry will approach the organisation and offer of a legal aid voucher, as well as an appropriate analysis of the situation in the area of access of vulnerable groups to effective legal protection, which will also include social weakness, and that in this area a legal regime is in fact being drawn up which will systematically regulate this in a specific regulation and will not, of course, regulate only the free legal aid governed by the Free Legal Aid Act. I would also like to say that in the past, I think we have just discussed and discussed the Free Legal Aid Act in the past year, with which we have extended the scope and also the reasons for exceptional free legal assistance and extended this circle and have somehow made it possible to provide effective legal advice. As far as the court fees are concerned. This too has been said, and it has already joined the amendment of this law. As far as I am aware, this law is in cross-cutting coordination, and we therefore expect to have this law in the National Assembly by the end of the year to be dealt with by the Justice Committee, where we can, in fact, present our proposals and discuss them thoroughly. In particular, this law should take into account, somehow, the requirements laid down in the Constitutional Court’s decision that the full exemption from the payment of social taxes will no longer be linked to the remuneration of financial social assistance, but will take into account the criteria for a significant reduction of the means of subsistence of the parties or their family members. This, too, seems very important to me and also necessary, by taking into account the actual reduction in resources left to someone for their naked survival and ensuring not only respect for human rights, but also dignity, so as to contribute to their preservation. I expect that efforts will be made in this direction and that we will also be able to talk as soon as possible about the bono law and the Law on Judicial Fees, which will contribute to the resolution of matters in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Primož Hainz has the floor. Get Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert ready for her, Sasha Tabaković.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Dear Mrs. Vlasta Nussdorfer, the guardian, and the team, colleagues and colleagues! Of course, you should say that the darkness is dangerous in this sense, because the person whose chapter opens up has everywhere a thought that you would like to say because it is so important. That's why I'm going to try to limit myself to this desire, and that's why I'm going to start with that. I'm not going to thank myself too much, but the report is good, and I think that's what we said in our Desus report. The Password To Return Dignity to People, I think this is an important issue globally, for all the reports, but I must say that Desus, when he went to the 2014 elections, had exactly this electoral password; in this sense, I think we can be extremely complementary in how we think about today's time and space. In fact, we then resolved our dignity or tried to elaborate on the programme in this material sense, in a social sense; that is, a comprehensive programme, which, like you chapters, has analysed throughout your life the views of human rights. One of those chapters or conditions for human dignity that I am experiencing or see as a major problem is the rule of law. Of course, as you do in the report, you have the thesis that laws are adopted in a quick way, you call them hand-to-hand, even undemocratic. I must say that I hope that is not the case today, but to this day or until the latest time it has been that laws were deliberately adopted with the so-called "out souring" as it was said, so with external orders. And the one who wrote it was, of course, already doing the shortcomings of this law. That was our problem for 20 years. That is why the abuses and all that happened in the material field, of course much in the other areas, happened because it knew exactly how the matter would be resolved and how the basics would be gathered, I will say literal wealth, national wealth. That's the basic problem for me. The other is the judiciary, but that is a more detailed case, but it is that the question of instance is before the court – of course I do not like it, and I must say so – because the courts are returning cases to the basic courts. This is, of course, the way things are delayed, sometimes delayed, or usually to make them obsolete, or too many times not to use grave expressions, and sometimes also because it is much easier and more comfortable if you want. In fact, obsolescence is what we read on a daily basis; the type of things happens, but in the end they are obsolete and there are no consequences. These are excesses, for ordinary people – if I can use this term, but I know it is not the best – but if after 8 years and I don’t know how many years a case comes to an end, there is no winner. They both lost; the one who won is long overdue, which was so many years ago, and the one who lost, of course, by the nature of the matter. So we have two who have lost, we have no winner and no loser in a court of law. I also meant a few things about human rights. Forgive the children's rights. I think there's still some kind of malnourished foster care problem. I know that time is changing terribly. I just want to remember one thing. Of course, you know him well, but... In 1965, 9% of children were born to unmarried mothers, in 1990 25% of children were born to unmarried mothers and in 2013 58%, i.e. almost 60 children born to unmarried mothers, means that some things have changed completely in a material sense, in a psychological sense, in a social sense, and some would like to return to the 19th century and hinder, hinder, modernise, adjust time and space too. Matrimonial care I think is still possible for a degree too regulated to return to this moderation, for some profit than for a child. As for the social state, which is our common problem, including the problem of the party Desus, a major problem, I must say that the basic starting point, when some would like to sell all our assets to foreigners as a rule, because we make it impossible for domestics to get loans and so on, they say: I am not a social state. These two things are shutting down. This story, here inside we will have to find some solutions and some may also have to correct a little if we want to realize the social state because the social state costs. Thank you very much for your report. As I said, you have all the support in the Desus party, the task force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor. Mr Saša Tabaković, Mrs Erika Dekleva, should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Allow me first to thank Mrs Levicar for her concern about the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party. I am pleased that you have returned to the hall to explain to you that human rights need to be discussed not only when the Ombudsman's report is on the table, but not enough. It is also necessary to speak when Slovenia is found as the worst country on the scale of human rights violations against the European Court of Justice. So, you know, your concern is superfluous. We will continue to discuss this much and certainly, and I hope that we will also help to move forward in this area. I wish you good work on that, too. When there is a debate in the National Assembly on the Ombudsman's report, I will now tell the Ombudsman, I always have very mixed feelings. Why? We talk a lot about this, the guardian is also working through the year in various areas, there is a lot of writing, we have a chapter of the Constitution, we also have legislation that is supposed to regulate some things in this area, but it seems to me that we do not have one fundamental step taken as far as human rights are concerned. It is that human rights are not divided into ours and yours. That in society these are not considered to be one and that they must be repeatedly exposed, because this is our problem, and forget about those we may not like most, sympathetic, and those deliberately more forgotten. Of course, Slovenia is a post-socialist society and it is known in these that there is somehow one collision of values. It is in these societies that this is also pointed out by those who have examined these matters in depth into the intestines of these systems, that there is a great danger that some values that do not come into play democratically and of course do not have human rights at stake can be repeated. They literally come back out the window, even though they were somehow pushed out the door. They take advantage of this on the basis of convenient topics; much talk about tolerance, tolerance, the right to speak and so on. But here these boundaries are sometimes very thin, I'm going to say, we're walking along a thin line, and I'm always wondering where we really are as a society, whether we're still at that halfway point or maybe we've been able to cross it already. If I'm going in kind of a row on a case-by-case basis. When we talk about human rights, we use time and again that before marriage we are all equal, human dignity is important. It has been repeatedly pointed out that experience shows that before the law in the country we are not all alike. Some will say that we are closer to this, some that we are still far from it. But you know, reality also shows something else. When a person who has been severely violated by human rights in the past, for example by the secret police, political police, SDV – citizens know her better than Udba – some people, when you say that expression, look at the half-killer, forgive the expression, but what shakes everything. And that's right. I am concerned about something; look, people who were then violated by the operation of that service today, for example, come to the court for justice because they believe they live in a democratic society. They may also come to another body, come to school, meet Members and so on and then run into people who have recently violated fundamental human rights. Do you really believe that these citizens believe that our country is democratic? They can't. People who had violated basic human rights a few years ago may have made sure that their relatives literally disappeared from the face of the earth — to seek justice from those same people today? They can't trust me! And I'm talking about values here. This is what I'm talking about, that once in this society it is necessary to make a clear limit on what is right and what is wrong. Is it right to occupy places in repressive bodies, in bodies that are supposed to share justice, people who knowingly violated at the time – I will hardly talk about whether any report in this area is taking steps forward. We can write about it, but we can't do anything. We do not yet do so to somehow adopt a convention or declaration in this national assembly, which spoke of certain systems and violations of human rights. We're not capable. It's enough for us to get to know each other, just to talk about it as little as possible. So much for this work, Your Honor. It's a hate speech. It's true. It's big. But we deal with it again when the problem is "ours" and not when the problem is "yours". When we hear an hate speech against individual journalists, half the country jumps, or two-thirds, or the whole system. When other journalists are attacked, we don't even talk about it. We smile a little, or we even use expressions that are just a little bit of humor. When a government president is threatened with liquidation, let's do everything we can to ensure that no harm comes to such a person, even if he returns to the post of repressive authority, he gets his weapons back. When someone else, I don't know where, he says the word anymore, he gets concrete action. And that's right. But we're back at yours and ours. Mrs Levicar, I don't understand that you're nodding here because that's a fact, that's what happened. This must be faced with the fact that it is very important when we talk about an enemy speech that we are either tolerant of everyone or not. It's the only way to achieve zero tolerance. There was also a lot of talk about the fact that social image in the country is still bad to improve, and the guardian wrote a lot about it. Finally, this is also due to the state of life of children in the country, which is very important to me. Look, August's salary has fallen, nominally and realistically, that's a fact. So, in the final stage, what he gets in his wallet is very important for the citizen. So he got less in his wallet in September. We have citizens who are because others have not paid them, with all their property. He's been turning to me for months now, sir, saying, "I don't know if I should strike hungry or should," I'm literally saying what he said to me, "I'm going to start in front of Parliament because my family can't live anymore. They only took everything from me because I wasn't paid by others." That's the problem. On the other hand, we have individuals who have only picked up the phone and who have received loans that have damaged our social property, not for small amounts, respected, for fatal amounts. Is that what we're doing? No! No! It is nice to discuss when a guardian with her team prepares a comprehensive report, all of us are full of words about human rights, we are hitting the table: we need to move on, we need to work harder in this area, but we avoid fundamental responsibility. There was also quite a talk about children. As I have already said, it seems important to me here to raise the issue of health care in this area. Not just what happens in heart surgery. You know, I can't believe that our children who have made mistakes at the time of treatment – I won't say mistakes, but in the course of the treatment, there is a process of alienation, as I say, of health, because if the defect is such that it can't be fixed, and then there is some hope somewhere else that we have a system that doesn't allow it. Well, you know, that's not that high, that's the problem. Why? For on the other hand, when such a child is involved over the years in society, when he is looking for a suitable job, when he may seek his own space under the sun, he becomes a country more than he would have been if he had been treated successfully. It cost a lot more. Just look at how many people are in health care today because of the social goods. Psychiatric offices, in my opinion, do this to a large extent; they deal with people who have been pushed to the edge or under it and literally do not know what to do. There was also mention of the refugee problem and the need for tolerance and the need to speak again and again about the need for patience and the need to be alert when they are not patient. I say that any such problem must be dealt with in this way and not only in this case. But, you know, you have to be patient with those who are facing this problem that they are solving. You know, it's not enough that we're just patient with those who come to Slovenia now mass. Are we patient with citizens living on this borderline and unable to take their children to school in the morning? They couldn't because the road was closed. Are we patient with those who had to put out and burn the burning tent? Are we patient with those who work there night and day? It is a matter of human rights and it is a matter of today’s subject, respected, even if some are surprised. Yesterday I looked around the area myself and I'll tell you a story I experienced if you want to deny it or not. I went to one collection point, of course I saw a lot of kids, mothers, individuals there; you're sick of them being driven out of their homes, I'd say. However, I hope that there were as few economic migrants among them as possible, because there is only a difference as to what kind of migrant you are. I also met Slovenian police officers there. They said they were on duty, I think, for 13 hours. They also helped to share food and so on. And other employees as well. I also saw the food distribution happening directly. Then I went to a group of refugees and asked them where they came from, how long they were on their way; I also introduced myself to them. Do you know what their comment was? They said: "We walk a long time, we come from Turkey, we move, but as bad as in Slovenia, we have not experienced this. They don't give us food either." But a little while ago, I saw them share food. That was my experience. I also warned them, "You've got food, I've seen it!" "Yeah, that's not enough!" – after they see you have some information, though. It was also a human right to the one who stood two feet behind me and listened to it, and he knew what he was doing all day. So, look, let's be honest when we talk about human rights, let's be tolerant when we talk about human rights, but let's be honest with each and every one of us. Let us also approach those who think differently; absolutely, everyone has the right to think differently. It is true, however, that we have a very good history of human rights in the country, and the diagnosis will be soon, and we are still far from the right treatment. The Keeper of Human Rights himself cannot save her. A wider team is needed. Perhaps, respected ones, also help us with treatment from abroad to give us a little indication of how they are facing such a problem. In short, I wish you as much a tolerant discussion as possible. I want all of us to keep the breach as low as possible. Above all, dear ones, let us place our values in the right place! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The replica has Mrs. Marinka Lefty.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u52	Thank you, Madam President. I must answer my colleague Bah Žibert that I have every right to say that two or three Members of the SDS are sitting in the SDS' parliamentary seats or even less. That's the truth, that's the fact, I don't know why deny it. It is also a fact that today's debate on the Ombudsman's report can help to improve the situation in this area. Well, and since I'm already speaking, I would add this, that today's debate, in my opinion, has gone in a completely different direction. Today we are discussing the Ombudsman's report on their work in the past year. What you said about the refugees is happening today, now. You're talking about the events that happened yesterday. You're talking about how we need to distinguish between economic and political migrants. In terms of human rights, I see no distinction here. And I could comment on what you said today, because I'm sure it's not really part of the report on the work of the guardian and her coworkers last year. You could say something about this, but you're nothing, your debate went in a very different direction, again into politicisation and division among citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u53	Procedural proposal, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u54	President, if you have not listened to my debate, then I will protect myself with a procedural one to urge you to give Mrs Levicar a reminder. First of all, I haven't said a word about what to say or what not to say. I told you that your concern is too great and that it is important that we talk about human rights more than once. That was my speech. Thirdly, my debate focused exclusively on the agenda. And, Your Honor, where do you live?Oh, my God! Do you think they've been fugitives since yesterday?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Saša Tabakovic has the floor. Get Mrs. Erika Deklava ready for her, Mr. Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished representative of the government, the esteemed guardian with her cabinet! The Ombudsman certainly recalls in his basic mission the shortcomings of those levels of human life which are directly linked to the nationality status as such and to the impact of the State on those statutes. Thus, the Ombudsman's ethical apostolic is, on the basis of the mission, humanely oriented and, in fact, a qualitative indicator of the development of civilizations, certain civil standards, societies, and, of course, an interpreter also of some general mental code or of a nation's pattern, if you would like. Therefore, in this respect, the annual evaluation in the form of a report is certainly welcome, and I welcome it myself, but of course I also agree that until this evaluation in the National Assembly, it must be critically defined and critically responded to, critically debated. We have received a rather extensive report from the Ombudsman on the table, and in my debate I will identify myself primarily on a line of constitutional rights, more specifically on the issue of hate speech. As I have already said in my discussion at the committee's own meeting, that is, the working body that has already dealt with this report, I have already said at that time that the statistical view of the occurrence of the hate speech in 2014 was lower than in 2013, and the initiatives to deal with the hate speech itself have been much lower, but it is still important to point out that since this spring the Republic of Slovenia has been more visible, and I think more clearly in some media sense, with greater refugee and migrant flows, so that it is likely and certainly the rise of the hate speech on this subject. In fact, the refugee issue or topic has become, in fact, a public boxing ring for various intolerances, phobias, some personal fears in one part of the public, and, of course, also those of the public who strive for this issue have some social sensitivity, but still respond aggressively to this hate speech, i.e. to these inappropriate words. This creates some additional conflict, some additional tense situations which I think are the least appropriate at this time. If we look at the hate speech itself online, as I have already said, this kind of verbal interaccounting is mainly present at a virtual level, i.e. in terms of some forums, blogs and the like, but it must certainly be strictly sanctioned and removed, so that we do not all get a greater advantage in practice with some actual bullying or even with some physical survival. Hate speech is a problem; the problem is because today the hate speech is much more refined than we know it in the past, it is wrapped in some cellophane words, it is absorbed in politics, it has become part of some political agenda, and, of course, it is as much more manipulative and dangerous as it is. There must certainly be some appropriate awareness and encouragement in this place to recognize the hate speech itself, but, of course, there is some sensitive balance between the right to freedom of speech and the dictated hate speech itself. I would like to say here that I am certainly not for the puritanisation of the Slovenian language. I think that the Slovenian language is very rich, even mild - sounding, and I am not a censor of the public word, I think that this, as I would call it, public verbal delinquency has passed since we decided to take Slovenia's independence; but we have simply crossed over in another, former political system. Nevertheless, the fact that the context, when and how the hate speech appeared is always important for the recognition of the hate speech itself. Of course, to understand this context is a very important stage or way in which an individual who is touched by the hate speech itself is identified by that hate speech. This is certainly related to the mere literacy of an individual. In fact, literacy is the ability to determine how to get to matter, to hear, to see, to read, to define. Regrettably, when a study was carried out at the Ministry of Culture two years ago, this international study showed that high school students, by their literacy on the European Union's tail, are also difficult to understand and recognize as part of this understanding of the hate speech itself, because it is easy to recognize the hate speech, which is, in this sense, also important, an educational moment which is clearly too weak at this point. This gives me some fear that generations will come, which in some conflict situation will find themselves using hate speech or even worse, that they will actually be victims of this hate speech. In this context, education, awareness, education are certainly not too much, so I also once again welcome the Ombudsman's project and the joint project of the Ombudsman and the Peace Institute, entitled Answering the hate speech, which certainly raises public awareness about the problem of hate speech, and whose aim is also to establish a public independent body, which will in some quality contribute to reducing the spread of the hate speech itself. In this sense, I can also say that the government has also listened in some way to this project. Indeed, the law on protection against discrimination is, in this sense, a law on protection against discrimination, which will, in a sense, follow in substance the very points of the project of the programme, which the Ombudsman is actually preparing together with the Peace Institute. I am aware that only the Ombudsman's report is always, as I would call it, a good field for various opposition parties, who can also use this report in a flat-rate way to raise political points. However, I think that we owe the National Assembly not only for ourselves but for the electorate's sake that we should be critical, dignified and rationally defined to this report. The Ombudsman mentioned in the report that sanctioning the hate speech is particularly difficult on various social networks mainly due to overlying legislation. The amendment also attracted the United Left, which proposes to the Ministry of the Interior, in cooperation with the Ombudsman, to explore possible solutions and to prepare improvements to marriage legislation, with the aim of properly addressing and sanctioning hate speech and promoting hatred on social networks in public and public media. I would like to point out that, of course, in this case, this is the same amendment that was tabled at the working body meeting when we discussed this report. I would like to say that the SMC Group certainly does not oppose various measures that would in any way restrict hate speech. In fact, only through some quality selection or sanctioning of an enemy speech can we keep what I would call a hygiene public discourse, but the amendment of the United Left itself, in my opinion, is too perfect, too ghastly, and is unnecessary in a certain content work. Indeed, the Ministry of the Interior is certainly not the only source that can be defined in any way to an enemy speech. The problem of hate speech is a systemic problem and must also be identified at systemic level. The government is aware of this and is already operating in this sense. When I talk about systemic solutions, it is important to stress in three ways: in terms of regulation or the conduct of the editors themselves. Indeed, we already have in force Article 18 of the Media Act, which states that responsible editors are responsible for any published information. It is true, however, that in interdepartmental coordination there is also a new amendment to the Media Act, which states that the proposed solutions impose an obligation on the publisher to comment in the context of his media, to establish rules of comment and to publish them publicly in the appropriate place, in the media. A comment which would not comply with the published rules should be withdrawn as soon as possible after the application or no later than one working day after the application. There were, of course, some concerns that this also introduces censorship of the commentary itself. I do not think this is the case; i.e., the media will determine the rules of comment itself and must withdraw the contentious comment only after the application. Some online media are already using such self-regulatory practice, and now, with the proposed regulation of the novel, these requirements will become mandatory for all media that will allow commenting, which will result in more effective self-regulatory of hate speech or offensive speech online and consequently lead to its reduction, which is also one of the objectives of the Resolution on the National Programme for the Prevention and Suppression of Crime for the period 2012-2016. If I go any further, as far as the police are concerned. That the police are not in a position to sanction hate speech more effectively, even as far as online publishing is concerned. Here it should be pointed out that we have Article 14 of the Electronic Business Act on the market. It states that the court or competent authority may restrict the provision of services to the information society of a service provider established in Slovenia or in another Member State if the measure relates to the provision of services in a corroded area and, of course, if the measure is necessary to achieve the objectives of ensuring public order, in particular the prosecution of offences, protection of minors, the provision of public security or consumer protection, the prevention of hatred due to race, sex, religion or nationality and the protection of human dignity. In this sense, I think it is also necessary to understand the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace, which is directly addressed by the United Left Amendment. It should be said that, already at the initiative of the police in 2013, the Higher State Prosecutor's Office considered that the Internet space was also a public place where hate speech must be sanctioned, as the Internet space is also a public space in the way that its intention is to achieve the widest possible circle of people or the public as such. In this sense, the law itself is not problematic; it is likely that only a greater incentive is needed for the law to actually be implemented in practice, as well as at the meeting of the labour committee itself, when the report was considered, was also provided by the Director of the Directorate for Police and Other Security Tasks, Mr Lado Bradač. As regards the very level of justice or the prosecution of hostile speech as defined in Article 297 of the Penal Code, it must be said that our jurisprudence is unfortunately too modest in this regard. In this regard, the right to freedom of speech and, on the other hand, the content itself is still being weighed. Of course, I welcome, in principle, the constitutional democratic attitude of our courts, which certainly referred to the right to freedom of speech, but it is still necessary to stress the practice of European courts here. Indeed, this issue was also addressed by the European Court of Human Rights in the Delfi AS case against Estonia, where at the time of the assessment of Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights, the Estonian courts found that, in a specific case, by establishing the responsibility of the Delphi news portal for comments of extreme nature, which constitute an obvious hate speech and an appeal to violence, they did not violate Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights. This means that the court has taken sides or that in this sense it has been determined that the content of the speech cannot be above just freedom of speech. In this sense, I would like Slovenian courts to be much braver and to rely much more on the practice of European courts itself. If I finish. Of course, we can change the end of the law in a way that we turn it upside down; we can use all the repressive forces of this world and yet the world in this way we will not be able to change until we change our personal mentality and personal standards as we understand the world around us. Before the debate, I have actually learned that the Constitutional Court has allowed a referendum in relation to the article of the Family Code, I will not explain, probably this code is clear to everyone, including the public, so that at this moment I agree with my colleague Bah Žibert, who referred her ten minutes of debate to Members so that we cannot separate between our rights and their rights. I would so strongly like her to keep this thought within herself even when she takes advantage of her civic duty and goes to the referendum and will be able to define herself in this way, including her civic duty and her conscience, which she has put in our mouths today. I certainly think that only if we live by the foundations of the Constitution, that only as a nation will we be able to live all our differences and that we will be able to live in a better common and kinder tomorrow. Of course, it is a policy task to be a model in this sense and when all of this is achieved, and to this is certainly a thorny path, only then will the Ombudsman's report be much cheaper or less than we all want to be present today. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mrs. Erika Girl has the floor. Get Mr. Uroš Prikl ready, then Dr. Jasna Murgel.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. I already commended your report at the Commission's petitions session myself. I am pleased that the report, in addition to these criticisms and recommendations, also highlights some positive trends. Each chapter of the report was equipped at the summit with a table showing the number of cases dealt with, the number of cases resolved and, in particular, the number of well-founded initiatives. Personally, this information seems very important and relevant to me. This is the kind of information that can somehow show the situation, because it is clear that all the things you are dealing with are not justified and probably any initiative that comes to you is not a violation of human rights. It was interesting that this percentage, which showed the merits of the cases under consideration, was relatively low. I consider this to be positive, but it is true that we can also use other numbers for the purpose of the debate, depending on what we want to achieve and what we want to report to the public. The most well-founded cases were in the areas of discrimination, administrative matters, environment and space, labour relations and unemployment and the protection of children's rights. On the other hand, I think it is important to point out, for example, the area of justice where this percentage of cases on the ground is relatively low, only 5.9%. You also point out in the report, if I quote, "positive trends in shortening and optimizing judicial proceedings also due to legislative changes to this government". I am thinking of a legislative package of changes in the field of justice, such as the amendment of the Law on free legal aid and the amendment of the Law on Enforcement and Insurance. The maximum percentage of legitimate cases in the report relates to the area of discrimination, so I have already discussed this segment on my parent's working body. In the area of discrimination, the area of Roma issues will somehow be the most in the eyes. Although I kind of don't like that word because it indicates that everything about the Roma is a problem, I don't think so. I think that we are all aware of the plight of the Roma community, and I think that this time it is political will enough to make things right. The preparation of a new national Roma action programme is therefore one of our priorities and positive developments are also reflected in other areas identified in the Roma Community Act and in the national Roma action programme. Of course, success always requires cooperation both at the state level and at the local community level, and especially the participation of the Roma themselves. Today I decided to focus a little more on the area of unemployment. This area is also one of those where we see a relatively high percentage of the underlying issues. However, I must admit that when I read this chapter, I was a little confused because I did not know exactly whether you wanted the work of the Government to be commended or wanted to build it. Initially, you have assessed that the State does not fulfil its obligations under Article 66 of the Constitution, which states that the State creates employment and employment opportunities and provides urgent legal protection. In the introduction, you are even wondering whether Slovenia is still a social state. I am of the opinion that and this is without a doubt, although I am fully aware that unemployment is great and I also know very well what it means to be unemployed and therefore without the means to live a decent life. However, it is also true and this must also be stressed that unemployment is declining and that the results of this government's efforts are already showing that it creates conditions for employment with various measures and incentives and, on the other hand, social transfers make life easier and more bearable when a person does not have a job. In 2014, EUR 104.6 million was allocated to active employment policy measures. Of these, some 38 million were earmarked for the execution of public works. I think these numbers in themselves are eloquent enough. The report also expresses concern that the planned public works funds will be lower in 2015. Nevertheless, it must be realized that there is no means to enable the inclusion of exactly all unemployed people. In the budget, the Government provides a lot of funds for social transfers, but of course always according to the capabilities, but it is impossible to do so indefinitely. Of course, involvement in public works is not the only aid scheme. In the next year's budget, according to the 2015 rebalancing, the funds are even increasing and will focus mainly on vulnerable groups. For me, the answer to the questions whether we are still a social state is clear. I believe that yes; I believe that the country is doing its best, on the one hand, to provide sufficient resources for the social, disabled and, on the other hand, to speed up the conditions of employment. In the coming year, we will thus allocate more resources for social assistance, for some children's allowances, there will be more scholarships, there will be more places in the VDC, and since I have worked before becoming an MEP, even in a humanitarian organisation, I can say that it is possible, at any time, to devote more money to the socially disadvantaged, to direct our initiatives and energy in order to encourage people to do the best they can to make their lives better and easier. You've also given some criticism to employment agencies. You wrote that the organization of work is sometimes inadequate because the unemployed in the corridors have to wait for interviews with counselors and are thus needlessly exposed to encountering other people. I have to say that in this part of my mind I disagree with you. I don't think unemployment is a disgrace, nor is the disease, so we're waiting in the waiting room for our turn. I think that at the time we are actually meeting people who are in similar or similar difficulties, with people who have some experience of their own, and I think that one conversation in the waiting room doesn't hurt anyone, so you can exchange some experiences, some feelings that actually help, and then you can see that maybe you're not alone in this difficult situation. [[…]] When life is hard, I don't think it's the right way to lock up between the walls of your home. I will, of course, end with the Constitutional Court's decision that the referendum on the equalization of the rights of same-sex couples with the rights of heterosexual couples is now possible, so in fact people will be able to decide at the referendum whether one group of citizens and citizens may have fewer rights than the other. Despite my respect for the decisions of the Constitutional Court, I cannot help but feel that we will violate man's spiders.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor. Get Mr. Tomaž Gantar ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u60	Thank you very much for your words, distinguished Vice-President and a nice greeting to all colleagues and colleagues, and especially to the Ombudsman of Mrs Nussdorfer! We've already gotten used to it, in recent years, that this is your report on a very high quality level, which of course is right. Perhaps it is less good or less right that we are also accustomed to being very comprehensive, very detailed, not because we would not want the detailed picture that you are presenting in this annual report, but because all the over-recommendations found are all too inconsistent. What is human rights, what is fundamental freedom? This is the fundamental fundamental right that everyone must have at every step in every room and every day. So this is the individual's right, the task of the government, the task of not least the parliament in which we sit, but it is that it tries to do so, to try to make such conditions that it is not questioned whether someone can enjoy fundamental freedom, human rights or not. I think that at this point, too, I must conclude that in the future, we also have to make a possible mental leap and help make the report, in particular to make recommendations less. In some ways, I can be pleased that these recommendations are less than last year, but I cannot be pleased that some of the recommendations that were written down in last year's report do not come true, do not get them, if I may say so, from the agenda, but repeat themselves, because they have not been sufficiently taken into account; and this is of course a worrisome concern. What is the report of the Ombudsman? This is a mirror in time and space and no reason, not least a relatively poor economic situation, a crisis in recent years, can justify some fundamental rights being violated or not being exercised. What do you see? You find that the fundamental principles of the rule of law are often violated. Furthermore, laws that are always not adopted in a transparent and democratic way, but mostly without the necessary involvement of the interested public, hand-to-hand, sometimes under-thinking. Decisions thus taken that are sometimes not sufficiently clear, predictable and weighed in terms of the protection of human rights also reduce the legal security of citizens. It is also noted or noted that public authorities must do their utmost to restore confidence in the work of the institutions and judicial authorities. These must work quickly, independently and qualitatively. It is also noted that judicial decisions must be swift and enforceable. Also, we need to correct and sincerely apologize to people for the injustices committed in the past by the State. I tell you that, personally, I believe that I can also speak in the vast majority of my colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members, we are working to make laws, to make decisions in this national assembly, to act in a sound, professional, prudent manner, particularly empathetic and to put ourselves in the role of all of those – not least we are citizens and of course citizens – that all of these laws that we adopt are thoughtful; to follow a logical note and to make them enforceable, but at the same time do not create additional divisions, additional injustices and other peripetions. Of course, we want to – we like to talk about so-called structural changes – we want some changes. We're serious about this. We expect a health reform or at least a change in some of the basic health rules, but we are still waiting for them; I hope we will see them. As far as pensions are concerned. There's a so-called white book in preparation. At this point, I can look forward to finding that the reform effects of a few years ago have been visible, received and improved. At the beginning of the following year, we expect the operational and functional functioning of the reserve demographic fund as a guarantee of stability, for the sustainability of public finances or for the smooth payment of long-term pensions, without additional cuts. We expect him to live to live the long-term supply law, which guarantees long-term intergenerational cooperation. In particular, we must – as Mrs Nussdorfer points out in the report, in the segment where the labour market is concerned – take care in a comprehensive manner in this area to ensure the first employment, employment for young people, in particular what Europe has recently seen, thank God, increasingly aware of, structural, long-term unemployment. And what's extremely disturbing is that we've had more and more poor employees lately. In this area, I believe that in the coming week we will also be able to resolve this issue through some changes in the minimum wage. In conclusion, because I would like my colleague Gantar to speak on this subject, I was in Luxembourg last week. The presidents of the Committees on Social Affairs of the European Union spoke about social problems. Among other things, I hope that this matter will be further worked out in the future – on the so-called social triple A. So, the essence of the awareness of the importance of the social component, the social note that must be taken into account in any way must be infiltrated, must be implemented, if you want, in all the on-board and other sectoral policies, not that it is a bar or copata, if you want, some capitalist, neoliberalist economic aspirations. If we can get this into practice and realize it, I think we have a better future ahead of us. So, once again, I accept the report, I support it, I have also gladly read it, a little less with joy, of course, because there are a lot of conclusions where the state has to change things for the better. Above all, I would like to see fewer repeated recommendations in the coming year and to take a better path. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Gantar has the floor. Get Mr. Matjaž Hanžek ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Respectable guardian, colleague and colleague! Of course it does not surprise me, the report is once again extremely extensive, quality, I can say, well, precisely. It is likely that anyone who has had a problem has experienced a violation is seen in this report, which, of course, can be good, and on the other hand, the effect of such a report is not always the most effective. Slovenia, unfortunately, is one of those countries that cannot boast of respect for human rights; it is said that the violation is simply too much. We too often seek excuses or, in fact, we do not want to admit too often that we are, or are, among those countries that are larger violators. This is probably due to the fact that very often there is no change, that we deal with the same violations in practice year after year, there are others, although some problems have been solved, and I am afraid that the key remain inconsequential. Otherwise, I believe that the violation for that individual is equally criminal, severe, that it is difficult to bear, but nevertheless, there are such violations of a nature that some of them are in fact of this kind, that we can be concerned that they present some kind of alarm for the whole society. And there's quite a few of these. Let's say the above-mentioned violations of the fundamental principles of the rule of law, then the adoption of laws in some untransparent, non-transparent way, not least inconsistent legislation restricting the effective work of the Ombudsman himself. Then the question, which is also raised in this report, is whether Slovenia is still a social state, given all the violations that are taking place. Of course, as long as these fundamental infringements are present in society, the question is whether it makes sense to list not how many, including minor, violations, in this way, as shown correctly, but perhaps we would need a little more operational work and agreement here. Because I'm pretty skeptical, and I'm afraid we'll be discussing the same things next year. I would expect that one such report might also contain solutions in key areas, but in agreement with the government, last but not least we could discuss such solutions at such a meeting. Otherwise, this is a wonderful subject and a problem that each of us in every field can have quite extensive discussions. Here, in my view, it is simply a matter of goodwill whether to take a step forward in this area of infringement or not. Indeed, the vast majority of violations are certainly not linked to the welfare of the country, to the growth of GDP, but simply to some decisions whether we will give priority to human rights or not. In this area, I fear that there is still much work to be done, especially reflection, including by the Ombudsman and also by the Government, to make the whole matter more effective so that the same things do not actually happen again. In fact, I do not take a third of the recommendations for a major achievement, but it does depend on the content that we are talking about and the extent of the infringements that are taking place in some area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Hanžek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u64	Thank you very much. I would like to remind my fellow Member that if we give human rights an advantage over something else, we should probably not think about it. It's definitely a thing that needs to be done or not. In addition, few solutions are added to the Ombudsman’s defense, most of these things, most of the alleged problems with the Guardian’s side. But the government is responsible for this, and I will not now talk about the government, I would also talk about us, and we are also responsible for the government's work. We forget too often and would like to refer to one of our proposals for an amendment, the one thing that I always say too much in the words of some, but I think we all talk too little: hate speech, intolerance, hatred and so on. I must point out that the attitude towards human rights is related to tolerance and is reciprocal, if we are serious about human rights, we need to think equally about tolerance. Although I must give this national assembly great recognition that since then, decades ago, when I was sitting where the Lady Guardian is sitting, so far in the National Assembly, this grave, violent - many more expressions - the hate speech is very dying. Many, who were not there at the time, can neither imagine what statements they were making at the time as normal. This is, on the one hand, wonderful, and on the other hand, the question of whether it is wonderful. Because instead there is so-called hate speech in society as well as in Parliament; modern, silent, silent discrimination, but hate speech. It is said that this is the way you agree to do it, a little after the curves, but – and then you list what is needed. I'm in favour of the Roma having rights, but there won't be too many rights. So little of myself always remember one letter I received: "The law of minority rights can lead to great problems in the life of the majority. In some countries, with loud fighters for rights, they have little or no problems... " That's a man who just so thoughtfully says he's not an impatience. Previously, when I was in the State Council, and I was talking about the Roma subject, I also presented some of the statements made by experts working in the area of Roma. It has been found that 90% of them have no idea, they have not read any documents yet, and they are experts, and at the same time they report that the Roma do not know anything. Neither did she know or knew that she had expressed pure intolerance, she added: I am not impatient at all, but the Roma are one and the same, and in the end I am not impatient at all, these are facts. On the last committee when we discussed the report on the Roma, colleague Gorenak, who I do not agree with in the main, but then in almost all of the other two things that he ended up screwing up, he was completely in agreement when he talked about two tasks, and he did not tell them — because it is right — where he found that in the area that he was being investigated, they found that there was no more crime among the Roma than among the majority population, to learn more traffic offences and so on. But we all know that Roma steal. But this is known among all and this is not an hate speech, but this is of course a fact, although the data shows completely different, and I believe this to my colleague Gorenak that this is true, although many others – I believe mainly, but I agree with it. Here I would like to point out to the National Assembly that it is nice, if we accept it, and I suggest that we adopt an amendment that supports and requires some kind of regulation of hate speech. But we do know that only the harshest hate speech that's already limited to a crime can be regulated by marriage. Of course, we in the National Assembly are also quite responsible for this hate speech because people listen to us and follow our example. I think that we should also have a commitment, unfortunately in the spring on my proposal, to devote one session to getting acquainted with the enemy speech in the National Assembly as well, this was rejected. I propose that we commit ourselves to having something like this in the National Assembly: a conversation about whether we even know what hate speech is, what intolerance is, what discrimination is, and so on. If we do not do so ourselves, we are bound by the Council of Europe decision of 18 September, the Committee on Equality and Non-discrimination, which I am a member of, we have accepted to extend the alliance. No. Hate Alliance for two more years, where there are mainly five goals: hate speech, anti-Semitism, Islamophobia, anti-Gypsy, anti-Romaism, and homo- and transphobia. But now we are in the situation, as I have heard, the Constitutional Court has allowed a referendum, because the final points will have a great deal in the coming months. Islamophobia will spread with the refugees. The hate speech, however, is what I keep saying, a thing that is very home to us; without even knowing that our speech is an hate speech. That's why I think it would be good for us to decide for ourselves. I will say another part of the commitment, in which they say in the Council of Europe that national parliaments should hold a thematic conference at least three times a year, a seminar on the limitation of hatred together with experts from the Council of Europe. I think it is good for us to know this and to make a decision; in addition to committing ourselves to avoid as much hate speech as possible, hatred, intolerance. To do this, we need to know for ourselves what it is. Although I made little use of this for other things, I am sure that the guardian does not mind because she is alone — and not only her, but all her coworkers keep reminding her. In the end, I have to say what I had forgotten before, and it is in itself that I am very pleased with the report. I'm afraid it's getting thicker. Not only is it because there would be more things, but they're probably more thoroughly processed than they used to be and so on. With it, I want a higher percentage of the recommendations to be made next year or anything that is impossible to make. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u65	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which a representative of the Government and the proposer will be given the floor. Mr Darko Stare, State Secretary, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u66	Thank you, Madam President. I must admit that today's debate has also opened up to me the reason for my thinking, particularly in the direction of ensuring the most effective conditions for the best possible work, in this case the executive branch of the Authority, so that we can make the recommendations of the Ombudsman as much as possible or fully implement them. These last discussions, particularly Mr Gantar, I thoroughly liked the content. However, I must say that in practice, at least now, what I am in this job, cooperation with the guardian or her co-workers is taking place. It seems to me that we need to find out in some way what is behind the fact that the recommendations are only partially implemented or completely unfulfilled. And the reasons are usually – this is what I see in my experience, in my personal opinion – as a result of mentality, the way officials or officials operate, which I often tell them – have been taught to be ineffective. There is always a reason that there is no reason for us to be able to implement or ensure something in a lack of legislation, in regulations. Personally, I believe that this is in a minority of cases and that we, too, have the biggest problem in implementing existing legislation, which is not bad; I am sure, because of the way in which we operate, mental schemes and mentality at all, culture also in a narrower sense, political and official terms. One Member also discussed very well the hate speech, the regulation, the media law, the current future Law on Services in the Electronic Market, the Penal Code and so on. We've defined all of this. The question is whether we, as the executive branch of power, — no matter which authorities — make these letters of law live in concrete procedures, in concrete cases. And for this reason I can tell you, because sometimes when I am sitting in this esteemed national assembly, I am reluctant to say to her what we have done in these three months; even though I have written sixteen measures, in fact reinforcement, systematic, normative to ensure the human dignity of human rights in the field of justice, where I have the opportunity and in some way the privilege to work. Notwithstanding the fact that the findings of this report relate to 2014, that is, only three months of the existing government period, but that is not the point. As one of the debaters said, this is a modern ideology, it is a universal right that is not only bound to time and space that is less important. An individual who carries this, that is, a man, is important. And for this reason, I can only assure you, it was also at the last government meeting where a respected guardian was invited. The whole government, especially the Prime Minister of the Government, has made a commitment, a direction to all of us, to all of us, that in this year's work we must pay priority attention to all recommendations and to respect as much as possible what is recommended and is also, as the Government's assessment, more or less highly justified and welcomed. From our point of view, it is now important at work to determine that we will try to implement this, whether the reasons for some rights of individuals being violated or not are indeed in law. I believe and I am sure, at least in our field – minimal. Or it is the fact that it is the ignorance, irresponsibility and negligence of those who are responsible for implementing these rules that ensure respect for human rights. I remember a lot of times, I think that many reports have also highlighted what has been highlighted in the debate today – that it would be nice if we once again had an information point at social work centres in order to raise awareness among individuals who give roles and rights. The Law on Administrative Procedure has been in force for many years, and it is very clear that rights must be given to uneducated people who are asking – because the administrative procedure is by definition intended to exercise certain rights that go to someone – that they are being exercised by the government. And we are obliged to proactively inform people of their rights, of their potential. And why isn't that happening? There's more than one reason. We may not know it, we do not know it, so we need to train more, we need to educate ourselves; we can not do it out of negligence, but we can do it consciously. But everything I've listed is unacceptable and manages within management and management. And here I think we have the most opportunities. For me, too, it is a command to do much more on organisational measures here, on management measures. It's not hard to change the law, but obviously we have a problem making it happen. This is also warned by the international institutions, including the United Nations, that we have difficulties in implementing. And this is about some kind of mentality. This may sound harsh, but you'll understand the message because it's well-intentioned. I have a feeling that we are somehow weak in the realization of that belief expressed by an individual regulation, the law as an expression of public interest, or the sense of what is right. And the easiest thing to do is to run — I can’t, someone else is competent or we have to adopt a law. And that's also reflected in this interinstitutional cooperation or interpersonal cooperation, because there's always a reason for us to say - her, because this is what we could do if this body did it. In fact, an organ or an institution can do something and then we do not respect it. Our minister often says that we are less respectful of ourselves, of our own institutions, of our own country's organs and in some ways even cynical. And I will give you two examples from our common practice, which we have been able to experience together in the legislative procedure. One example is, I am sure today and also at the stage of the procedure, everyone agrees that the protection of human dignity must be ensured in the case of the enforcement of the Law on Enforcement, in the event that individual commercial banks have intervened in the social assistance of an individual with a charge of EUR 30, for example, and received EUR 60 of social assistance. In principle, we said that this was unacceptable, that it was fundamentally humanly unacceptable and illogical, that such a law could be so interpreted as to be acceptable. We were all in favour of going into a change of law; thank God you've accepted it, it's now in effect. But in the debate, it's seen, and that's democracy, legitimate. Individual lobbying, institutions have also legitimately argued through Members and other stakeholders in the procedure, the position that this is, in fact, unacceptable or that it is an infringement of entrepreneurial freedom. I want to say that if you want to either as an individual, either as an institution, or as an authority to exercise some public interest, which is already defined by the applicable regulation or feeling right, you need to have essentially the will, the energy – this must be your value – and, of course, the power. That is why energy and persuasion are needed. In order not to be too long, I can only assure you, as well as the government's guidance, that, to the best of our ability in this year, we will, in cooperation with the Ombudsman and her co-workers, try to ensure that as many recommendations as possible are implemented; also those not only bound by regulatory changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Ms Vlasta Nussdorfer, the Ombudsman, has the floor as a proponent, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u68	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, Representative of the Government! For almost five hours, the debate in the National Assembly took place, and it is very important to me that I did not leave this Hall for a moment, because it would be a shame to lose a thread and not listen to any of you. So I have a good review of what you said and promised here in the hall today. You have been extremely constructive, supporting our report for the past year and also our recommendations. I am confident that when the vote is taken, there will be here in the Chamber all the Members, including those who are obviously not here today due to their obligation. I am also convinced that all of you, who are here and also of those who are not, have read the report carefully; perhaps not only the parts that you are particularly interested in, and therefore you have an extremely good review of our work, as has been said, but also of the state of human rights in the Republic of Slovenia. You have touched on topics also addressed by the Ombudsman, not only in this report, but also in the past, because some of the recommendations have not been implemented. You talked about reforms that are urgently needed, about justice, about the legal security of citizens, about values that are important, and about equality and equality. Some of you also touched the judiciary and, like the Ombudsman, felt that it was necessary to do so fairly and quickly. I believe that, in particular, in areas that touch the most vulnerable, i.e. children, as well as in the area that touches social and labour rights, because people can be exposed to even more problems there; if there is no justice – because justice is known, they usually say, it is not justice. Like the Ombudsman, you have also been critical of the health sector that requires reforms. In the opening part of my performance, I have not been able to say what the government already supports, that there should be no temporary management of ministries. This has proved to be inappropriate in the field of health in recent years; therefore, it is the Minister who can lead the ministry in a sovereign and also an effort to amend the legislation that is necessary. The right area of health is one that requires a quick response to irregularities. The crisis, poverty, employment, or better - said unemployment and social issues are subjects that you are still interested in. I hope that in the future, as the representative of the Government has also provided, there will be changes that the Ombudsman will closely monitor. And I am therefore convinced that the next or at least the next report that followed will be the one that will talk about progress, that a lot has changed for the better and that the crisis will not always be an excuse for not accepting. The national community – in fact, in our report we both did not pay such attention because we have not received a large number of initiatives. But I have to say, we've always been active in the field. And whenever we went to places where communities reside, either in Prekmurje or in Primorska, we met with representatives. Recently – this goes to the report to be published next year – we also had a special meeting with both representatives of the Ombudsman. With regard to the merits of initiatives – calculations are not always a reality, because even if the Ombudsman finds that an initiative is not justified at the time of submission and rescue, it does not mean that it would not be later. However, some people do not yet make full use of all the remedies when they come to the Ombudsman, and at that time we cannot tell how the matter will take place; especially where they are open, perhaps in justice, a number of legal ways that they will take advantage of, even on our advice. There are no less valuable citizens; they are all equal, equal. That is why, in the introduction to my report, I also quoted the Vienna Declaration as saying just that. Ten. 12. When we celebrate the day of human rights this year, we will focus on a topic that has been discussed in some of your performances – youth, unemployment, difficulties in payments, disciplines and more. These are topics that are very, very topical. I believe that on Human Rights Day this will certainly be the right topic not only for the Ombudsman but also for vulnerable groups in our society. The discussion was also about the abuse of rights. In fact, it is true that sometimes legislation, particularly in the social field, is adopted or adopted and is also spoken of because of some abuses. And yet the Ombudsman believes that it is important to be careful that the supervisory institutions operate and that the abuses that occur also sanction that people see that abuse is not worth it. Because if you abuse your own rights and gain more, then surely someone suffers. And then you can ask yourself where ethics and morality are. Therefore, simply adopting such legislation to avoid being violated without sanctions can also be a question of whether it is most appropriate; and when we have control, when we have institutions that need to act. And it is the supervisory institutions and also the inspection services that must do their work quickly and effectively, and especially to answer people's questions. Education – the talk was also about how the Ombudsman is monitoring this area. Believe me, very much. The subject will also be the subject of a future report, meeting with home schooling, about which we have already taken our stand. This year we also carefully monitored scholarships for deficit professions and detected irregularities there. As you yourself have found, the advocate – the voice of the child does not yet have its own legislation that is appropriate, but for the time being, we are also able to provide the Ombudsman in this area to those children in whom parents cannot unite, what is right and what is wrong with them. And usually they're not the subject of the event, but they're the object. There was also talk of palliatives. This area of the Ombudsman is also concerned and will certainly be in the future – some of the themes are in the past, and the immediate past, have also opened up the necessary topic of palliatives for us. In our report you have also been able to see praises, for so far there are not many. But we did our best, and where someone was willing to remedy the violation of human rights, we wrote at the edge that it was commendable and touched on it. We'll be monitoring everything the government will be, all the ministries. Indeed, it has been promised that we will also actively cooperate in this, keep an eye on what is happening, and what our recommendations are, that we will not write new ones if we do not have to; and if we can close some chapters. I would like to conclude by saying that it is always necessary to have a person who deserves a large beginning in front of him; for sometimes he falls to a small beginning because of the conduct of certain organs. And he deserves dignity; many times today have been mentioned, the dignity that belongs to him; from birth to death. Thank you again for all your contributions, thoughts, ideas, even for our future work. This is certainly an important day for the Ombudsman, and I am sure that the field of hostile speech will be much smaller also because of all the contributions you have already mentioned, also because Delphi's judgment against Estonia does not only mean a solution for one country, but the European Court of Human Rights has communicated something important to all. Thank you for your care, attention. As the rapporteur for this report, I am pleased that we have been able to discuss it for almost five hours, and I also look forward to your votes in favour of the recommendations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u69	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate and turn to the debate on the amendments tabled to the proposal for a recommendation to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 21. Ten. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate the amendments of the Group of Members of the United Left for a new Chapter 2.1 of the Constitutional Rights. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate the amendments of the Group of Members of the United Left for a new Chapter 2.4 of Justice. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate the amendments of the Group of Members of the United Left for a new Chapter 2.6 of the Administrative Affairs. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate the amendments of the Group of Members of the United Left for a new Chapter 2.10 Working relations. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. The amendments and the proposal for a recommendation will be decided on Tuesday, 27, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. Ten. 2015, in the context of the votes This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. On the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Audiovisual Media Services, on the basis of a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture, Mr Anton Persak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u70	Madam President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The main purpose of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Audiovisual Media Services Act is to fully comply with the Audiovisual Media Services Directive, as requested by the European Commission in 2013, which also initiated a pre-trial procedure called the EU Pilot in 2013 to verify the appropriateness of transposition of the Directive. While the Ministry of Culture, in the course of previous talks and coordination with the European Commission, has duly rejected most of the comments which were of a particular terminology and editorial nature, and a written agreement has been reached with regard to the remaining ones to deal with the amendment of the law, otherwise an appropriate judicial procedure will be initiated against the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of the comments of the European Commission, the following provisions of the law are being amended: definition of European audiovisual works, the competences of the Republic of Slovenia, cooperation between the regulatory authorities of the Member States, the freedom to receive audiovisual media services from other countries, the protection of children and minors, the prohibition of advertising health activities and services, the prohibition of sponsoring reports, the prohibition of television sales of alcoholic beverages and the right to short reporting. In addition to the comments taken into account by the European Commission, the proposal for a law contains several other editorial corrections aimed at greater clarity and clarity of the regulation; and a few minor substantive actions in the field of child and juvenile protection, short reporting, the right of the public to monitor the most important events and criminal provisions. It also introduces thematic programmes that have not been formally made possible in Slovenia so far, which has placed the Slovenian media house in an unequal position with foreigners who distribute their programmes in the territory of Slovenia. In the area of the protection of children and minors in television programmes, we move the time limit for content suitable for children after 12 years of age, from 21 to 20 hours, which is traditionally established on Slovenian TVs as an hour at which more difficult content begins to be broadcast. With this change, we will achieve more appropriate labelling of content and at the same time align the conditions of operation on the market between Slovenian and foreign issuers. However, in the case of services on request, we specify more precisely the technical protection already in force against content that could harm children and minors and the responsibility to ensure this protection. In the definition of short reporting, additional conditions relating to the frequency and time limit of short cuts shall be introduced on the basis of the European Commission’s comment. With regard to the right of the public to monitor the most important events, the proposal for a new law lays down the way and criteria for the establishment of a list of the most important events and the procedure for mandatory consultations between stakeholders. We have also revised the penal provisions by means of the bill, for individual offences which are smaller by their weight, we have halved the fines. Finally, we would also like to point out that the proposal for a law has been the subject of a thorough public debate and cross-cutting coordination. In particular, with regard to the public debate, I would like to stress in particular that there have been a very large number of opinions, proposals and comments from different stakeholders in this area, which also speaks in itself of the fact that nothing could be taken into account because they were sometimes at odds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Culture to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Maria Antonija Kovacič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u72	Good-bye, everybody! Allow me to present the report of the Committee on Culture, which is held at its 5th regular session. Ten. 2015 discussed the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Audiovisual Media Services Act submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. At its 35th regular meeting on 11 September 2015, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner. In the light of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects, the proposed law has been examined by the Legislative and Legal Service and has made some comments to it. Her representative pointed out, in the context of the general comments, that a third of the amendments had been made with the proposed amendment, which would require the drafting of a new law in accordance with the Nomotechnical Rules. However, the comments were also made on the inadequacy of amending several articles of the current law with one article. With regard to the comments to each article, it raised the question of the practical exercise of direct and continuous access to the impression, the uncertainty of the distinction between the prohibition of audiovisual commercial communications and the prohibition of television advertising and the sale, incomprehensibility and internal non-compliance of Article 18 and the absence of an appropriate explanation in Articles 19 and 20. The opinion was also presented by a representative of the Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport, which in its opinion endorsed the bill. Among other things, the Commission has proposed some additions relating to information content that could harm the physical, mental or moral development of children and adolescents. In the course of the course of business, the amendments were tabled by the SMC, Desus, SD and the NSI Group of Members. The Minister of Culture explained the purpose of the bill and presented the major substantive changes affecting the protection of children and adolescents in audiovisual media services on request, the right to report on television programmes, the right of the public to monitor the most important events of the so-called thematic television programmes and the recast of criminal provisions by reducing fines for individual categories of offences. The discussion focused on the protection of children and adolescents in audiovisual media services on demand, annual reports on the proportions achieved and on the right of the public to monitor major events. With regard to the protection of children and adolescents in audiovisual media services on request, some discussers said that in such services, which could harm the physical, mental or moral development of children and adolescents, a sufficient visual symbol in the catalogue of programme content, as proposed by the novel proposer, was not sufficient. In their view, this would reduce the level of protection of children and adolescents. They found it more appropriate to have the current arrangement, which provides that these contents should be equipped with an appropriate acoustic and visual warning and appropriate visual symbols throughout the course of the content playback. Others felt that there was sufficient catalogual labelling on request, since the label indicated what the content was and what was appropriate for children. At first, we know what someone's gonna be watching. With regard to the provision of the novel, which requires broadcasters to send to the Ministry and Akosu by the end of February each year the breakdown of the percentage of European audiovisual works achieved during the annual broadcast for the previous year. I'll be done. Following the discussion, the Committee voted in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Secretary of State Mr. Tone Peršak, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The reason for the amendment of the Audiovisual Media Services Act, which we are considering today, is the full harmonisation of the Slovenian acquis with the European legal order in the field of audiovisual media services. In our opinion, this is an important law, since in its provisions, the protection of children and minors in audiovisual media services is affected by demand, the right to short reporting in television programmes, the right of the public to monitor the most important events of so-called television programmes and the recast of criminal provisions by reducing fines for individual categories of offences. New Slovenia supports some proposals for solutions, namely the shift of the threshold for the so-called premium rate of content at an early hour, from the current 21st to 20th hours. The result will be greater protection of viewers, equal market conditions between programmes registered in Slovenia and those licensed abroad. We also support a more precise definition, while already in force technical protection measures against content that could seriously harm children and minors by restricting access to these content to exclusively full-year persons through the PIN code system allocated. Access to these contents will be by default locked. The responsibility for this protection lies with the provider of audiovisual media services, which we think is correct. Christian Democrats are also pleased that, after a high-quality debate on the parental committee, our amendment, which preserves a high level of protection for children and adolescents in the field of programming services, has been adopted on a request that may harm the physical, mental or moral development of children and minors. As you know, we place our family at the highest level of values, our family is sacred to us, and we give our children the utmost attention in the family. The current regime, which provides that these contents must be equipped with an appropriate acoustic and visual warning and appropriate visual symbols throughout the performance of the content, which is good. The Christian Democrats will vote in favour of the amendment and the amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mag. Branislav Rajić will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre; please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u76	Good day to you all! The proposal for a law before us aims at ensuring compliance with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the European Council of 10 March 2010 on the coordination of certain laws and regulations of the Member States on the provision of audiovisual media services, which was transposed into the Audiovisual Media Services Act, which entered into force in November 2011. Furthermore, the proposal for a law to remedy the shortcomings identified in the implementation and to address certain editorial and nomological shortcomings. The proposal for a new law regulates the definition of audiovisual works. According to the new report, European audiovisual works are all the works produced in co-production under agreements concluded by the European Union in the audiovisual field with third countries in which audiovisual works of the Member States of the European Union are not subject to discriminatory measures and which meet the conditions laid down in each of these agreements. This dictatorship eliminates the difference between majority and minority European co-productions with producers from third countries. This means, in practice, that audiovisual works in which producers from European countries have only a minority share have the same status as, for example, 100 % of European works. This change is important due to the participation of such productions in various programmes for obtaining European and national support. At the meeting of the parent working body, we adopted an amendment to Article 9 of the Law in the direction of greater protection of children and minors in the case of programme content through audiovisual media services at a request that could seriously harm the development of children and minors of all kinds. These may only be made available by means of technical protection through an assigned PIN code system or other equivalent protection which ensures that children and minors will not normally be able to hear or see them. The draft law introduces a more precise definition of short reporting. In addition to the conditions for the short reporting of the 90-second cut from the broadcaster's exclusive transmission signal, and that such a cut can only be used in general information broadcasts, the restriction conditions are added in a new way. First; the condition of the frequency of playback that the cut can only be played once; and secondly, the condition of the time limit for the playback to be broadcast no later than the day following the end of the event. The draft law also regulates the right of the public to monitor major events. It sets out the method and criteria for drawing up a list of the most important events and the procedure for mandatory consultations between stakeholders. The substantive substantive change is a clear criterion for the inclusion of each event in the list of the most important events for television broadcasting, since the current regulation does not yet provide for these criteria. The process of developing the list would be simplified and could be more quickly developed. The proposal to amend the law will be supported by Members of the Modern Centre Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Čuš will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u78	Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We are looking at the novel of the Audiovisual Media Services Act. We have also discussed this proposal for a law at a meeting of the parent working body, which is on the Committee on Culture. At the meeting of the Committee on Culture, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service and said that the amendments of the coalition groups followed their opinion; some comments were still present in some articles of the bill. In the context of general comments, it was pointed out that the proposed amendment exceeded a third of the amendments, which would require the drafting of a new law in accordance with the Nomotechnical Rules. Comments were also made on the inadequacy of amending several articles of the current law with one article and on the use of a language of conversation in several places. With regard to the comments to each article, the question of the practical exercise of direct and continuous access to the impression was raised in Article 6, the uncertainty of the distinction between the prohibition of audiovisual commercial communications and the prohibition of television advertising and the sale in Article 13, the incomprehensibility and internal non-compliance of Article 18 and the absence of an appropriate explanation in Articles 19 and 20. When we talk about this proposal for a law, the main objectives of the bill are to ensure full compliance with the European Directive and to address the individual editorial and nomological shortcomings identified in the implementation of the law in practice. The areas of regulation to which the European Commission has made comments in compliance with the European Directive and which are subsequently addressed by the proposed legislation in question are: the definition of European audiovisual works, the jurisdiction of the Republic of Slovenia over television programmes which are disseminated via satellite channels, cooperation between the regulatory authorities of the Member States, the freedom to receive audiovisual media services from other countries, the protection of children and minors in audiovisual media services on demand, the prohibition of audiovisual commercial communications for health activities and services, the prohibition of sponsoring reports and informational content, the prohibition of television sales of alcoholic beverages and the right to short reporting on television programmes. With regard to the right of the public to monitor major events, the proposal for a new law sets out the method and criteria for establishing a list of the most important events and the procedure for mandatory consultations between stakeholders. The essential substantive change in the current regime is that the clear criteria for the inclusion of an event in the list of the most important events for television broadcasting are laid down. The process of creating the list itself should be simplified and therefore faster. In the case of the protection of children and adolescents, the technical protection – i.e. the PIN code – is suspended in accordance with the Commission’s comment on the protection of children and adolescents in television programmes; and in audiovisual media services, upon request, the obligation to publish an appropriate acoustic and visual warning before the programme content is started. We will not oppose amendments to the Audiovisual Media Services Act in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u80	Once again, a nice hello, distinguished secretary! The Audiovisual Media Services Act, which entered into force in November 2011, transposed into the Slovenian legal order the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the coordination of certain laws and regulations of the Member States on the provision of audiovisual media services. Since the European Commission, in verifying compliance with the provisions of the Audiovisual Media Services Act with the provisions of the Directive, has found that there are minor inconsistencies which are mostly of a terminology or nomotechnic nature, a new law should be adopted to remedy these inconsistencies. The proposal deals, inter alia, with solutions concerning the definition of European audiovisual works, cooperation between Member States' regulatory authorities and the freedom to adopt audiovisual media services from other countries. At the same time, it prohibits audiovisual commercial communications for health activities and services, prohibits sponsoring reports and informative software content and television sales of alcoholic beverages. However, substantive substantive changes concern the right to short reporting in television programmes and the right of the public to monitor major events and the protection of children and adolescents in television programmes and audiovisual media services on demand. On the parental committee, we focused on the most debates, in particular, on the latter solutions. In order to better label programme content and in particular to increase the protection of children or adolescents, the time limit for content after 12 years shifts from 21st to 20th hours; that is, to the time when films and other content suitable for adult viewers are started on Slovenian television programmes. With a view to protecting children and adolescents in audiovisual media services at the request of the amendment, the proposal further specifies the technical protection measure through the allocation of a PIN code system which must be by default locked against programme content that could harm children and adolescents more seriously. It should be borne in mind that it is difficult for children and adolescents at a time when electronic technology is accessible to everyone and the inclusion on various social networks to prevent access to all content that is harmful to them. Hence, parents who need to exercise control over the content of their children’s access to it play a major role. In the Desus Group, we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Bacič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u82	Mr Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! Based on the conclusion of the National Programme for Culture that no comprehensive analysis of the state of Slovenian media landscape has been carried out after independence, we are concerned about the way in which the legislation in the field of media is being amended. Instead of drawing on the previously implemented strategy and taking measures to strengthen the autonomy of the work of journalists, improve their legal and social situation and create a regulatory environment of transparent ownership, we face mainly bureaucratic corrections under pressure from directives and assessments by European institutions. This results in changes that do not follow social and media progress. At times, however, the controversial debate at the meeting of the parent working body has clearly shown that the substantive changes are important from the point of view of the providers and users. Notwithstanding the introductory criticism, which is unlikely to be overlooked even in the debate on any other media proposal, at least two important substantive contributions from the novel proposal should be highlighted. The first is the more precise definition of an independent producer to remove the confusion caused by the more looser definitions in the current text. Another important substantive novelty is the definition of thematic programmes. The provision is more than a post-festum legalisation of the existing state, as certain television houses already offer content of a single genre. The offer of operators includes specialized sports, music, film and other programmes. Although the law's proponents are very optimistic about the creation of new such programmes by Slovenian publishers. We share this hope ourselves; we note that Slovenian publishers are in an unequal position compared to foreign ones. Various thematic programmes that can be monitored in Slovenia attract Slovenian viewers and viewers with subtitled programmes. They also help to achieve the results of the economic efficiency of the business by advertising services and products of Slovenian suppliers. They thus consume the advertising cake to Slovenian publishers and thus weaken their position on the market, as the extent of their advertising is not legally regulated. In this place, we therefore join in calling after a comprehensive arrangement of thematically specialised programmes in the roof law. Special attention is paid in the Audiovisual Media Services Act to protect children and adolescents from inappropriate content on television programmes and on-demand services. We are also reminded of the importance of protecting children and adolescents and of training in media literacy by, among other things, the Ombudsman in annual reports. Aware of the importance of the topic, we have supported the amendment of opposition New Slovenia, which preserves the way of labelling inappropriate media content for children, as has been the case so far. We believe that intervention in the current state of labelling with acoustic and visual warnings and visual symbols would be unnecessary, or in the proposed direction, whether it is television programmes or services on demand, would constitute a step backwards in the pursuit of the objective of protecting children and adolescents. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the proposal for a largely nomotechnic novel of the Audiovisual Media Services Act. However, we expect the competent ministry to provide everything necessary for the adoption of the media strategy this year, as foreseen by the National Programme for Culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mrs Violeta Tomić will present the position of the Joint Left Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u84	In the United Left, we will not support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Audiovisual Media Services Act. The reason is simple, the changes are not sufficiently prepared, in some places they are superficial and inadequate. At the same time, the situation in the field of audiovisual media services is becoming more and more glamorous. Again, we are dealing with the law created by the pressure of the European Commission; this is primarily a patchwork, but not a thorough regulation of the area, which we would certainly need. From a formal point of view, there is also a lack of legislation. It is not just a matter of ignoring the rule that the novel should not change more than a third of the articles and that it does not change the articles of the current law by one article. These are some apparent indiscretions and breaches of the basic rules of the drafting of legislation, even constitutionally disputed provisions. The text was hardly read and understood because of linguistic irregularities and obscenities. The coalition has written almost a new law with amendments, but this does not change the fact that this legal change is not a consistent and progressive regulation of the area, but rather a chaotic ceasefire and inappropriate and uncritical adaptation to European legislation. The law proves that saving cuts into culture are not the only reason to play the cultural sphere. Cultural policies cannot be successful if they are prepared in the way this law is prepared. It is clear that the Ministry of Culture from the highest to the lowest instance lacks abilities, ideas and insight. We do not have media legislation; in some respects it is obsolete. The situation in practice is even more problematic. At the legal level, we have certain shares of European and Slovenian audiovisual works of our own production and audiovisual works of Slovenian independent producers, which publishers must place in their programme. Surveillance is extremely weak, it is clear that the provisions are not being met, nor in public broadcasting. If the provisions are unrealistic, they must be amended. But if there is another problem, it should be actively solved. One of the most important aspects is content on request, which already represents an important part of audiovisual content. The law tries to regulate them, but a number of questions have arisen during the examination on the appropriateness of these regulations. Some provisions, such as the ban on commercial communications for health activities and services, the ban on television sales of alcoholic beverages and so on, are worthy of support. However, there is no positive deterioration of the short reporting restrictions. It is a matter of pursuing profitable interests at the expense of public interests or at the expense of public information. The reduction in the frequency of the broadcast and the restrictions on the day following the end of the event are contrary to the right of the public; at the same time, they are inanimate when we consider how structured information television programmes are. Even when it comes to the protection of children and minors, we can see a lack of regulation, especially when it comes to an extremely sensitive area. Because of everything listed in the United Left novel of the Audiovisual Media Services Act, we will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u85	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made on Tuesday, 17. Ten. 2015, in the context of the votes I'm breaking up with the fourth item of the agenda. We're moving on to 19. On a daily basis, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Infrastructural Information in another defence within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary Mag. Tanya Rich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u86	Well-welcome, distinguished Presidents, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The Ministry of Environment and Space shall endeavour to fulfil Slovenia's obligations in the area of uniform and easy access to quality and standardised databases of spatial and environmental data. To this end, we are building a common infrastructure for spatial information that will allow users at national and European level to access data and services for efficient space and environment management. The legal framework for these activities is the INSPI Spatial Information Infrastructure Act, which has already laid down the Directive on European Spatial Information Infrastructure, the so-called INSPIRE Directive, in our legal order since 2010. You have before you the text of the amendments and additions to this Act, which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has drawn up in particular in view of the European Commission's findings on certain shortcomings in the transposition of the INSPIRE Directive into the Slovenian legal order. The draft amendments and additions prepared shall remove the following notices of non-compliance or irregularities. This is the determination of the conditions for spatial data sets covered by ZIPI, i.e. the amendment of Article 4, the definition of network services in accordance with Article 11 of the INSPIRE Directive, the amendment of Article 13(1), the provision of a connection to the national communications network, the amendment of Article 14, paragraph 2, the regulation of restrictions on public access, the amendment and supplementation of Article 15, the arrangements for the sharing of data in accordance with Article 17 of the INSPIRE Directive, the amendment and supplementation of Article 17 of ZIPI and the addition of monitoring of the establishment and use of the national spatial information infrastructure in accordance with Article 21 of the INSPIRE Directive. This is a complement to the first paragraph of Article 19. The European Commission is already 17. 1. 2013 opened an EU Pilot inquiry procedure on a specific matter and determined the consistency of the transposition of the INSPIRE Directive into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. The Republic of Slovenia explained to the Commission its position and opinions on this specific investigation in several responses, namely five, and in a report on the state of fulfilment of the obligations of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space at the time concerning the transposition of the INSPIRE Directive into ZIPI; then the Ministry of Justice and Public Administration or the Ministry of Internal Affairs in cooperation with the Information Officer concerning the transfer of articles governing restrictions on public access to spatial data sets and services related to spatial data and restrictions on the sharing of data and services. The expected changes and additions to ZIPI have been sent by the Republic of Slovenia to the European Commission in the annex to the reply already 10. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The latter has also confirmed and notified that they will ensure the completeness, appropriateness and appropriateness of the transposition of the INSPIRE Directive into the Slovenian legal order. In the Interdepartmental Treatment, the text of the bill was harmonised, and the Government therefore proposes that the National Assembly adopt the draft law in the text, as it is prepared, together with the proposed amendments, which came from the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. As a candidate for the Government Act, the ILO agrees with the findings of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly that the terms used in Article 17 of the ZIPI and the proposed amendments to this Article, namely Article 6 of the ZIPI-A, do not fully reflect the language used in the Slovenian legal order; however, the terms in which the European Commission insists on the consistent application of the terms of the INSPIRE Directive are used. In our view, it is less difficult to change and harmonise ZIPI with European Community law. By means of the INSPIRE Directive, the European Commission has expressed its expectation that these amendments and additions will be referred as soon as possible to the legislative process, thereby regulating our legal order and thus fulfilling Slovenia's obligations to the European Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Igor Zorčič, President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u88	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Honorable representative of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is at its 13th session. Ten. 2015 as a parent labour body, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Spatial Information Infrastructure Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a regular procedure. Representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development and representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service participated in the meeting of the Committee. In its supplementary explanation, Mrs Irena Majcen, Minister for Environment and Space, explained that the European Union had adopted Directive 2007/2/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the establishment of spatial information infrastructure in the European Community in 2007, aimed at ensuring the integrated design of the European Union's environmental policy and the achievement of a high level of environmental protection. The European Commission is in an exploratory procedure, which is 17. In January 2013 it opened on its own initiative, alerting the Republic of Slovenia to the alleged incomplete or incorrect transposition of certain parts of the directive into our ZIPI law, this is the Spatial Information Infrastructure Act. In order to address these deficiencies, changes are being prepared, additions to certain provisions of the ZIPI; setting the conditions for spatial data sets covered by the ZIPI, definition of network services, provision of connections to the national communications network, regulation of restrictions on public access to spatial data sets and network services, regulation of sharing of data, services, and addition, monitoring, establishment and use of national spatial information infrastructures. The Minister expressed the view that there are some derogations in the language between the European Commission and the Slovenian acquis, which will need to be aligned with the European Commission in order to avoid further agreement and implementation of the directives into our legislation. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, who was present at the meeting of the Committee, said that this service had also made certain comments, which had been taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition groups, thereby making the proposal for a law in the light of the powers of the Legislative and Legal Service appropriate. The President of the Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development stressed that the Commission supports the bill. Some Members expressed their concerns that the proposal for a law fully represents the transposition of the European Directive into the Slovenian legal order and does not contain any other substantive solutions. A statement from the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on the additional costs to be incurred by the municipalities following the adoption of the proposal for a law was also highlighted. In this regard, the applicant explained that the proposal for a law would not entail additional costs to the municipalities, since the costs they had with the preparation of the data were not the result of this law. The Committee adopted the amendments of the SMC, Desus and SD groups to Articles 3, 5 and 6 and, in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, voted on and adopted all the articles of the proposal together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Vesna Vervega has the floor and will present the position of the Group of the Modern Centre Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The INSPIRE Directive was transposed into the Slovenian legal order in 2010 by the Spatial Information Infrastructure Act, which regulated the establishment, management and maintenance of spatial information infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia. For contacts with the European Commission with regard to this Directive and for the effective implementation of spatial information infrastructure in Slovenia, a national point of contact was established for the tasks of the Geodetic Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. In January 2013, the European Commission opened an informal inquiry into a possible infringement of European Community law with regard to the transposition of the Directive due to the alleged incomplete or incorrect transposition of certain articles of the Directive into the Slovenian legal order. In its replies, Slovenia stated to the Commission that in order to ensure the correct and complete transposition of the Directive into the law, amendments and additions to certain provisions were necessary and that this Act on amendments and additions should therefore eliminate all published non-compliances or irregularities. These are: the setting of conditions for spatial data sets covered by the law; the terminology harmonisation of the definition of network services; the elimination of discretionary decision-making in order to enable third parties to establish a link in the national communications network; the regulation of restrictions on public access to spatial data databases and network services; the arrangements for the authorisation of access to spatial data databases and services related to spatial data due to the prevalence of public interest; the arrangements for the sharing of data and services and the arrangements for access to environmental information; the complementary arrangements for monitoring the establishment and use of national spatial information infrastructure. The proposal to amend this law has no financial implications for the state budget and other public financial resources. The amendments shall not affect the content or scope of the tasks performed by the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia under this Act. These shall be implemented under the resources already provided for in the State budget. For these reasons, we decided in the SMC Group that we would support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Spatial Information Infrastructure Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u92	Dearly beloved, all of you have a lovely greeting! The proposal for a law amending the Spatial Information Infrastructure Act complements the lack of transposition of the 2010 Directive, as pointed out by the European Commission. This supplement deals with: the establishment of conditions for spatial data sets, the definition of network services, the provision of connections to the national communications network, the regulation of restrictions on public access to spatial data sets and network services, the arrangements for data sharing and the establishment of the use of national spatial information infrastructure. On the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, we drew attention to the inadequacy of the financial implications for the municipalities when this law was adopted. The records and spatial data transferred to the central spatial database are also not up-to-date and therefore the databases are not accurate enough at the moment. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we will not oppose the law; however, we note that this law does not contain any substantive solutions. We therefore call on the government and the competent ministry to proceed as soon as possible with the preparation of substantive proposals regulating the construction of buildings, spatial planning and the placement of infrastructure of State importance into space. The procedures for placing and obtaining individual licences are too long, which is reflected negatively in the fact that the country is becoming less interesting to foreign and domestic investors.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, chairman. Honourable representative of the Ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We have before us the proposal for a new Law on Infrastructure for Spatial Information, which is being amended in view of the European Commission's finding that Slovenia has not properly implemented the INSPIRE Directives in its legal order. The proposal removes the following publication of non-compliances or irregularities: the setting of conditions for spatial data sets covered by the law; the definition of network services in accordance with Article 11 of the Directive; the provision of a connection to the national communications network; the regulation of restrictions on public access to data; the arrangements for the sharing of data and services in accordance with Article 17 of the Directive; the addition of monitoring of the establishment and use of national spatial information infrastructure in accordance with Article 21 of the Directive. On 20 February 2015, the European Commission confirmed and announced that they would ensure the completeness, appropriateness and appropriateness of the transposition of the INSPIRE Directive into the Slovenian legal order. As can be seen from the text, these are mainly solutions of a nomotechnic nature and relate to a different understanding of the translation of the directive from English to Slovenian. This is one of the reasons why Members and Members of the Desus Group will support this amendment. The second reason is that the proposal will not result in additional costs for the municipalities, since the costs they have with the preparation of the data are not the result of this law. Only databases of the intended use of space from municipal spatial plans are within the jurisdiction of the municipalities, for which the Ministry of Environment and Space is responsible under the spatial information system. At the same time, we would like to point out in the Desus Group that the transfer of spatial data from municipal databases to the central spatial datasets carried out by the authorised institutions is not up to date due to the lack of budgetary resources. Therefore, the databases are not being updated, which means that the central spatial datasets are not sufficiently accurate. The Desus Group supports this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Škoberne will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u96	Dear Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! In 2007, the European Union adopted the so-called INSPIRE Directive, aimed at supporting the development of the European Union's environmental policy and ensuring the highest or highest standards of environmental protection. As a result, the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia established the Slovenian INSPIRE geoportal in 2011 in accordance with the content of the new law and the transposed directive. The Government has also adopted the relevant regulation and other necessary acts. Despite the work done, the European Commission in 2013 pointed to Slovenia's alleged misdemeanour or incomplete transposition of part of the articles of the INSPIRE Directive. In fact, the novelty ahead of us is a corrective measure that responds adequately to the criticism or warning of the European Commission and is also an answer to the Commission. It amends and complements articles laying down conditions for spatial data sets, definition of network services, provision of connections to the national communications network, regulation of restrictions on public access to spatial data sets and network services, regulation of data sharing and services, and monitoring of the establishment and use of national spatial information infrastructure. As this is an appropriate and expected response from the Government and the European Commission's meaningful comments, we will support the proposal for a novelty in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Ms Violeta Tomić will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u98	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Members, we support the Joint Left proposal of the Law on Infrastructure for Spatial Information. This is a minor amendment to the existing law necessary because the European INSPIRE Directive was not sufficiently transposed into the Slovenian legal order for the first time in 2010, according to the European Commission. The government and the Commission have apparently finally succeeded in harmonising, and this novel is the result of this coordination. But while we support it, this does not mean that we have not had serious concerns in our decision-making on support. Let me introduce you two. The first is that it is another type of novelty, which is also pointed out by the Legal and Legislative Service, which literally transposes the European directives into the Slovenian legal order without listening to its specifics. And it is another type of novelty that only stains the existing law, even though more thorough renovations are needed. However, this novel is a special case in this respect. In order for the basic law to be rectified, it has been known at least since 2013, i.e. the entire mandate of this government. However, the government has only done minimal work in the necessary substantive changes, since it has not been able to complete the structure of the database and the way the data was transferred and has also not included the professional public in the preparation of the novel. However, the second major concern, which is related again to the broader and longer practice of this government, is feasible. As the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development points out, due to the lack of resources, i.e. savings cuts at all levels of the country, transfers from municipal bases to central collections are not up to date, which means that these collections are not refreshing and are currently not accurate enough. Of course, this is not only within the jurisdiction of the municipalities, as the representative of the Government rightly pointed out at the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space. Savings also go hand in hand not only to municipalities, but also to all parts of the country and also to the Ministry of Environment and Space. If the government is already proposing laws, then it should also provide for the means to be able to implement them at all. Let me draw some general conclusions. We expect the government to rationalise the number of legislative proposals, and above all better quality proposals that we will be able to implement in practice. It is not about defending work as Members, it is about transparency and the quality of legislative changes and additions and ensuring the conditions for their implementation. If it were up to anyone, the government could show little sympathy for our legal and legislative service, so that it would not have to be reminded in any novelty or new law of the million points that need to be amended to make its proposals acceptable; at least on purely nominal terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Jernej Vrtovec will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u100	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr President! Not only are we talking a lot at this meeting about the transposition of European directives into our legal order, but we are also correcting the mistakes made in the implementation already made. This is therefore nothing new in the field of environment and space, except the harmonisation of the content of the Directives. The European Commission is, therefore, often reminding us of late deadlines or of inadequate transposition of the directives themselves. One such is the Directive on the establishment of spatial information infrastructure in the European Community, the so-called INSPIRE Directive, which ensures the integrated design of the European Community's environmental policy to achieve a high level of environmental protection. It was transposed into our legal order in 2010 by the Spatial Information Infrastructure Act. However, because the work was done superficially and flawedly, today we are again writing our homework with the amendment of the law. Not because of a different understanding of the translation of the directive itself from English to Slovenian or because of the derogations in the language between the European Commission and our legal order, as the Ministry states; but because of our inconsistencies. That's the only reason. The proposal for a novel merely brings about nomotechnic corrections, but does not refer to any substantive solutions that would also be necessary in this area, the means of data transfer, but especially with regard to the faster placement of spatial arrangements of State importance into space. Today, we are only talking about overcoming the shortcomings, limiting public access to spatial data sets and network services, and also laying down the conditions for spatial data sets covered by the law. The connection to the national communications network is ensured. Although the law does not directly affect the obligations of the municipalities to maintain databases on the intended use of space from municipal spatial plans or does not mean an increase in the cost of the municipalities referred to in this title, particular attention will have to be paid to this issue in the future. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in New Slovenia we will support the amendment because we are aware of our country's tasks in this area and because we do not want the lack of implementation of the European Directive to constitute an obstacle to the very implementation of the provisions of the Spatial Information Infrastructure Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u101	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place on Tuesday, 27 October, in the framework of the votes. I'm putting an end to the 19th item of the agenda. We're moving on to 25. Agenda item, this is on the proposal for a resolution on the National Programme for Equal Opportunities for Women and Men 2015-2020. The motion for a resolution was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. To further explain the motion for a resolution, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary Martini Vuk; please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u102	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to present in this address some of the key starting points that led us in the preparation of a new resolution on a national programme for equal opportunities between women and men. Slovenia has committed itself by adopting and ratifying a number of international instruments — including the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women — to respect obligations in the field of equal opportunities between women and men. This year, exactly 20 years have passed since the Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing, which adopted one of the most important strategic documents of the United Nations to promote equality between women and men. This is a document that requires the developing countries to develop specific national strategies with a clear objective – to improve the situation of women. The basis for the adoption of the resolution that we are considering today is 13 years ago, which is the Law on Equal Opportunities for Women and Men. However, Slovenia does not seek gender equality only because of laws and international obligations, but mainly because we truly believe that this means better society for all. The evaluation of the first such resolution showed that its adoption offered a comprehensive basis for adopting gender equality objectives and measures that contributed to greater visibility and sensitivity to these issues, greater data availability and enhanced research work. Measures have been taken, such as paternity leave, changes in electoral legislation, measures to prevent violence against women and in the family, which have contributed significantly to gender equality. The new resolution is also a strategy setting out the main objectives and measures and key policy makers for achieving gender equality in various areas of life. However, individual activities will be more precisely defined in two-year periodic plans. In general, we have taken an important step forward in 20 years on gender equality. International indices measuring gender gaps place Slovenia among countries with a relatively high level of equality. Compared to other countries, Slovenia has one of the best kindergarten systems, extended-stay schools and child nutrition, which is reflected in the fact that the employment rate of Slovenian mothers is among the highest in the European Union. We have one of the lowest wage differences between men and women, and the proportion of MPs in the National Assembly increased from 8 to 35.6% between 1995 and 2014; and the share of saints at local level from 11 to 31%. We have half the ministers in the government today. Despite this progress, inequalities between businesses are still present. Although women are more educated than men today, this educational capital has not been fully exploited. There are significantly fewer men between entrepreneurs and decision-making structures of companies. Sexual segregation remains a problem in education and in the labour market, resulting from persistent gender stereotypes. In the area of prevention and elimination of violence against women, we have adopted a special law, we are implementing prevention and assistance programmes, we have ratified the Istanbul Convention. But in practice we are still far from zero tolerance to violence. Trends show that, for the time being, we are on a good halfway path to equality between women and men and that without further measures to achieve real equality in society, it would take at least another 80 years. Therefore, we need to maintain or strengthen public services, kindergartens, schools, health care, social services and take measures to better harmonise professional or public and family life as a basis for the full participation of women in the labour market, in public life and in decision-making positions. We need to adopt quotas for decision-making venues in the largest companies, strengthen awareness-raising, education and training, and strengthen national mechanisms for gender equality and the fight against discrimination. Thank you for the important changes in Slovenia's legal and other fields and the introduction of new practices goes to a number of actors – NGOs that are and are still doing exceptional work; to you, that is, to the National Assembly, which has adopted legislation that has made progress, particularly in the field of political representation; to all those who have incorporated the principle of gender equality into individual sectoral policies, and to all those people and people who apply gender equality in everyday life. The resolution is not the only promoter of gender change; however, the objectives and measures associated with it will certainly contribute to the further development and progress of Slovenia. With the support of the resolution, you will give gender equality issues greater weight in society and an additional political commitment to take the necessary further steps. Therefore, honourable Members and Members, I call on you, sincerely and firmly, that it will bring us all progress, to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The motion for a resolution was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Uroš Pikl, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u104	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. All 15, if I understand you correctly, I welcome the Members; I also welcome all the others who accompany this meeting. At its 16th meeting, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons considered and adopted a motion for a resolution on a national programme on equal opportunities for women and men for the period 2015-2020. Initially, the Legislative and Legal Service reviewed or examined the document from the point of view of its competence and identified some of the shortcomings that have been addressed by the amendments adopted. The Commission of the Council of State for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons also supported the motion for a resolution and concluded that the motion for a resolution was prepared on the basis of an analysis of the situation and the assessment of progress towards the achievement of the objectives set; and assessed that the document was substantively at a very high quality level. It was pointed out on the Committee that the adoption of the Resolution on the National Programme for Equal Opportunities for Women and Men was established by the Law on Equal Opportunities for Women and Men. The areas concerned include: labour market and employment, family and partnership, education, culture, sport, science and higher education, poverty reduction and social exclusion, decision-making in politics, the economy and other areas of social life, physical, psychological, sexual and economic violence against women and the international activities of the Republic of Slovenia to empower women, and the implementation of gender equality objectives. In these areas, key objectives are identified to address gender imbalances and gender segregation in employment and the elimination of unemployment, to improve the situation of women and men in the field of social inclusion, to remove obstacles to achieving easier coordination of family and professional life, to bridge the gap between gender and gender segregation in education, to eliminate inequalities in science and higher education, to eliminate stereotypes in society, in particular the media, culture and sport, to improve the health of women and men, to remove obstacles to achieving balanced gender representation in various areas of political and social life, to end gender-based violence, to strengthen gender mainstreaming in Slovenian development, peace and other foreign policy initiatives. In the context of the debate itself, the members and members of the Committee agreed to support the motion for a resolution and several questions and comments were raised on the objectives, measures and indicators. Some have pointed out in the debate that some measures are too eloquent and are insufficiently concrete, that it is difficult to follow their implementation and success on this basis. The feminisation of professions, positive discrimination in parental protection and parental leave, representation of women in decision-making positions, easier coordination of professional and family life and could also be listed. The individual actions to achieve the objectives will be detailed and presented in more detail in the periodic plans, action plans to be prepared for a period of two years. The debaters agreed that these documents were urgently needed because the resolutions should be followed by implementing acts. Following a discussion on the individual chapters of the motion for a resolution, the Committee adopted the amendments already mentioned. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted on all parts of the motion for a resolution together and adopted them together to our satisfaction; with the wish and hope that the resolution will be a step forward in achieving equal opportunities for both sexes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Jelka Godec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u106	Thank you. Your Honor! Despite different laws and national programmes, gender inequalities still exist. To reduce these gaps, let us today adopt a new resolution, a new strategic document entitled Resolution on a national programme for equal opportunities between women and men. It sets general priorities for improving the situation of women and men, which should allow for the sustainable development of gender equality in the Republic of Slovenia. Emphasis is given to eight areas: equal economic independence, coordination of professional and private life, society without gender stereotypes, social inclusion, health, balanced representation of women and men, violence against women, gender equality in foreign policy. The motioners noted that the new resolution contained fewer objectives and fewer measures; the objectives and measures set out should be more concrete and clear. Indicators should aim at measuring changes in achieving equality between men and women. Unfortunately, though, the view — and if we read the resolution well — convinces us the opposite. The objectives are general, and the same applies to actions. The indicators are far from measurable. The representative of the proposer at the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities could not answer the specific question of how the competent ministries would make it possible to reduce gender differences in education, social and health professions. In this area, particularly in the field of education, 78% of women, in health and social services, are almost 81%. This is one of the areas where there are marked inequalities. However, the action taken to eliminate sexual stereotypes in decision-making for the profession has a wide range of answers. Nor did we get an answer as to what concrete measures the government will make it easier to harmonise professional and private life or family life. In preparing the resolution, the analysis showed that older female, middle-class women and ethical women were more permanently affected. In this area, measures such as the implementation of projects and programmes to increase social inclusion and reduce the risk of poverty are recorded. However, the resolution does not contain anything or anything about amending legislation in the field of social benefits. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we hope that the action plan or implementing acts will be much better and more concrete in the light of the resolution, so that we can see in the meantime that the resolution is not just a piece of paper that is needed. Let the Resolution on the National Programme for Equal Opportunities for Women and Men be a step towards achieving gender equality in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Peter Wilphan will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u108	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and four colleagues! Slovenia promotes principles that do not allow for any form of discrimination. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia recognises equality between women and men, which is also a fundamental principle of democracy and respect for human rights. In Slovenia, we are constantly working to achieve gender equality in all areas of social life. According to various international indicators, which provide reliable comparisons and accurate assessments of where the greatest gender inequalities are across countries, Slovenia is placed among countries with a relatively high level of equality. It is noted that the visibility and sensitivity of gender equality issues has increased in recent years, and more statistics on the situation of women and men in various areas are available. We are also witnessing progress in some areas at legislative level and also in practice. All of this makes us happy in the Desus Group, but at the same time we are aware that, as a result of this further activity in this area, which would improve the situation in the future, we should not take sides. Still the same opportunities for women and men in some areas are not sufficiently implemented. Ambassadors and Ambassadors of Desus are concerned about violence against women; he would point out the same economic dependence in terms of the labour market and employment, and in this context the coordination of professional and private life or family life. In the Desus Group, we will, of course, support this strategic document, which is ahead of us today, which aims to improve the situation of women and men and stresses the sustainable development of gender equality. We considered the motion for a resolution, which is already the second such document in the Republic of Slovenia, to be well prepared. Of course, it is good to attribute the substantive quality of the document primarily to the fact that the text is prepared on the basis of an analysis of the situation and the assessment of progress towards achieving the objectives set in the past, the evaluation of the effects of the previous resolution, the findings and proposals of the profession and the participation of non-governmental organisations. It is crucial for us that the integration of the principle of gender equality brings real results in everyday life as well. In addition to our well-established actions in this direction, it is essential to ensure, at the declaratory level, the quality of implementation of the written and laid down in practice as well. To this end, the resolution gives guidance to ministries and other government authorities and local communities for the planning and implementation of their sectoral policies. In our Group of Members, however, we are convinced that each individual and society as a whole can do the most in this regard. As has already been said, in the Desus Group, we support the draft resolution on the national programme for equal opportunities between women and men 2015-2020.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Bacič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u110	Thank you again, Mr Vice President. Hello, Secretary of State. I'm having a little laugh. We are talking about a very important strategic plan for equality between men and women. And look – men are more equal than we women, that's what it looks like. Equal opportunities for women and men are one of the fundamental human rights and the principle of democratic societies. The principle of equality before the law is enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia as the first of the principles of human rights and fundamental freedoms. The Constitution provides that everyone is guaranteed the same human rights and fundamental freedoms in the Republic of Slovenia; regardless of nationality, race, sex, language, religion, political and other beliefs. Equality between women and men is also one of the fundamental principles of European Union law, whose aim is to ensure equal opportunities and equal treatment between men and women and to combat all forms of discrimination based on sex. The national programme is a strategic document aimed at improving the status of women and men and achieving gender equality in various areas of life in the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2015-2020. According to various international indicators, Slovenia is placed among countries with a relatively high level of equal opportunities between women and men. In recent years, visibility and sensitivity have increased for issues related to gender equality. We are also witnessing progress in some areas at the level and practice of legislation. Nevertheless, the same opportunities for women and men in everyday life are still not sufficiently implemented. Among the areas where we have made major moves and possibly the most steps forward during the implementation of the previous national programme, political decision-making, violence against women and health should be highlighted. In the future, more attention will also be paid to achieving gender balance in the economic field, eliminating stereotypes in the field of professional and family life coordination and measures that improve the situation of neglected groups of women and men. However, the review across areas has shown that there are still significant gender differences in the labour market, particularly with regard to the employment rate of young people with high education. In the field of education and science, the educational level has risen for both sexes, but the differences between women and men in the type and level of education are not diminishing. Both have a significant impact on labour market segregation. Mechanisms to monitor and promote equal opportunities for women and men in the field of culture have been put in place over eight years, but they should be upgraded, specified and quantified in the future. In the area of social welfare, women still have a higher risk of poverty, especially older women and single mothers. With regard to the sharing of power between the sexes in society, progress has been made in particular in the political field, while the socio-economic area remains a major challenge. In the area of family life there is still an unequal division of household and care work; in the area of violence against women, positive movements have been achieved in partnership with NGOs, but women are still too often victims of violence in the private sphere. Taking into account the progress made and the situation in individual areas, the Resolution on the National Programme for Equal Opportunities for Women and Men sets targets and measures in eight areas. We stress the importance of gender equality policy, particularly in the labour market, in the family, politics and public life in general; therefore, in implementing the national programme, we support efforts to achieve the following objectives: to address gender imbalances and gender segregation in the field of employment and the elimination of unemployment, to improve the situation of women and men in the field of social inclusion, to remove obstacles to achieving easier coordination of work and family life, to address gender gaps and segregation in education, to address gender inequality in science and research, to address stereotypes in society, in particular in the media, culture, sport and science, to achieve zero tolerance for violence against women, to strengthen gender mainstreaming in the Slovenian development, peace and other foreign policy initiatives. The resolution on the national programme for equal opportunities between women and men is an important strategic document of the Government, followed by an action plan with specific objectives and measures and key policy holders for gender equality in various areas of women's and men's lives in the Republic of Slovenia, and by which we will build a society of equality and equality. The proposed resolution will be supported by the Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Hanžek will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u112	Thank you, Vice President. Hello, Secretary of State! In the United Left, we agree with the definition of the problem in the proposal. The situation is particularly worrying in the following areas. Women, especially single mothers and women over 60 years of age, are at great risk of poverty. The division of household work is still markedly uneven; women are disproportionately burdened. The representation of women in leading positions in the economy is far from the recommended 30%; it is even more worrying that very few women are in leading positions in the public sector where the government actually employs. Our support for the resolution is certainly conditional. The measures are not strong enough. It is clear that the heads of the ministry, which is also the Ministry of Equal Opportunities, lack both ideas and political will to actually move something. In particular, in the three areas where inequality is most acute, measures are insurmountable, they are largely relegated to awareness rather than changing social relations themselves by amending legislation. In particular, I stress that resolutions can also be very specific if there is a political will to do so. In this proposal too, we have very concrete changes to the law on the one hand and, on the other hand, only some marketing actions to raise awareness. The resolution foresees, for example, the adoption of new legislative provisions in electoral legislation to increase women's representation in political functions. He's even talking about stopping the robberies. However, in the field of economic societies and even the public sector, it promises only activities to promote balanced representation. In short, where there is knowledge and political will, the measures are very practical and binding; where the will is due to different interests, usually capital ones, there is no, there is only some kind of awareness. Our initiatives to address inequalities differ greatly from what is stated in the resolution. I'm going back to those three areas. The Ministry is well aware that poverty in single mothers is twice as high as in the general population; in single women over 65 years of age, it is almost three times higher. But all they propose are specific programmes to reduce the risk of poverty, monitor and analyse poverty. In fact, the solution is to increase social assistance and increase accessibility. The largest number of poverty is in older women living in rural areas who today renounce the protective supplement. It is therefore high time to lift the prohibition on the sale and restriction of property inheritance. However, the third necessary measure is the introduction of compulsory public and solidarity insurance for long-term care. The Ministry is aware that the proportion of women in leading positions in the economy and the wider public sector is too low, but the resolution provides only for analysis and encouragement. In fact, we need legal obligations, even if they are opposed to the interests of capital associations and management. The Ministry is also aware that women still do most of the household work and care for children. It is therefore not sufficient for the resolution to provide for the promotion of active paternity, but it must be provided by law that part of parental leave must be made compulsory by the father or that part of the leave is failing. Here the Ministry must not be intimidated by the response of the patriarchal part of the public. In the United Left, we will support this resolution because it is an official recognition that women's inequality is a problem; but also because it is possible to interpret its general orientations in the direction I have directed and that would actually improve the position of women in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Jernej Vrtovec will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats; please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u114	Dear colleagues, President and representative of the Government! In theory and practice, Christian Democrats are implementing the principle of equal representation between women and men. This can also be seen by the representation of both sexes in our client bodies. We Christian Democrats are particularly pleased that one of the priority objectives of this resolution is to harmonise professional and family life. For the country should follow the objectives set out in the resolution in a scratch; unfortunately, it is too often the opposite. We must note that we have in consideration a proposal for a law extending the reduction in parental leave measure from including the fourth month of parental leave. In the resolution, we want to make it possible for young parents of both sexes to have the best possible conditions and, in particular, to encourage men to make more use of their leave to care for and to protect their children. Preschool education is extremely important for young parents, and we are all aware of that. How difficult it is for the parents of the child to trust no one in the care of the child after the expiry of the maternity care; on the other hand, unfortunately, the state is increasingly reducing funds for the municipalities. Since kindergartens are the responsibility of the congregations, this will eventually affect the number of cities and probably the quality of preschool care. There is a big gap between the theory in this resolution and in practice. We must also draw attention to the difficulties of young parents in exercising the right to hospital leave due to the care and protection of the sick child. Employers are not very fond of young parents on too many occasions. We believe and propose that Christian Democrats should introduce incentives for employers to hire young parents, as is already the case with some other vulnerable groups. Young parents need to be protected and consider the example we set, the National Assembly itself, in enabling their parents to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, what message do we give to young women; that is, if you want to be officials, Members of Parliament, not having children. This is not right, in our view, we would like to see a child vote with one of his or her colleagues, as we can see in the European Parliament. Members of the New Slovenia Group will not object to the motion for a resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Ms Erika Dekleva will present the position of the Group of the Modern Centre Party, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. Nice hello to you all! The resolution on the national programme for equal opportunities between women and men for the period 2015-2020 is one of the key documents that can bring us closer to a society where, as stated in the resolution itself, sex will no longer act as an influence on access to rights, opportunities and participation in the results of social development. Today, when we adopt a second resolution on a national programme for equal opportunities between women and men, some still wonder whether we really need this document. For we have a good regulatory framework in the field of gender equality, but there are still gaps between the sexes. The resolution that we are dealing with is certainly necessary because there is still a reluctance to employ young mothers because there are still prejudices about which professions are suitable for women and which for men, because some are still convinced that a successful career in women is not possible while caring for families or children at the same time; because in 2012 we had the Office for Equal Opportunities, whose importance and social role due to the alleged rationalisation of costs and increased efficiency was not recognised and it was abolished in the same year. And because today in the Slovenian Parliament there would not be as many as 31 MEPs or 34.4% of all representatives of the people if they did not introduce sex quotas by law, which have a significant impact on the proportion of elected women. Many other elements suggest a gap between regulatory regulation and ensuring gender equality in practice could be listed; however, at this point it is more important to point out that this gap has been identified and its reduction is defined in the resolution in ten key objectives. If I only list some, these are: the elimination of gender imbalances and sexual segregation in employment and the elimination of unemployment, the improvement of the situation of women and men in the area of social exclusion, the elimination of obstacles to achieving easier reconciliation of work and family life, the elimination of inequalities in science and higher education, the zero tolerance for violence against women and more. The evaluation of the implementation of the first national programme for equal opportunities between women and men showed that significant achievements were made during this period. Among other things, increasing visibility and sensitivity to gender equality issues in society. Nevertheless, the motion for a resolution points out that there is still unequal participation of women in the labour market, which is linked to disproportionate distribution of care for children and other assistance needed by members and members between women and men. Worrying information is linked to wage policy. Although the wage gap between women and men in Slovenia is not high, according to the draft resolution, it nevertheless emerges in particular sectors and activities where wage differentials are even more than 20%. No less important phenomenon that we encounter every day is linked to the choice of profession and the subjective assessment of its suitability for women and men. In this context, we welcome measures to reduce the differences between professions which should be considered as typical men and those which should be more suitable for women; and measures to ensure a more evenly dispersed presence of men and women within the professional hierarchy. The resolution among the most important targets by 2020 highlights an increase in social inclusion and a reduction in the risk of poverty of the most vulnerable or excluded groups. According to the latest figures of the Statistical Office, pensioners represented 26% of all persons below the poverty line in 2014, with 18% of women and 8% of men. People with the highest risk of poverty in 2014 also represented women over 46 years of age, of whom 21.6% lived below the poverty line. The data submitted require action. I believe that all of us here are committed to the same objective and we will support the motion for a resolution. We're definitely going to be in the Group of the Modern Center Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-22-SDZ7-Redna-12.ana.u117	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. No amendments to the supplementary motion for a resolution have been tabled. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place fully on Tuesday, 27 October, in the framework of the votes. I hereby terminate the 25th agenda item and the 12th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed on Monday 26 October at 10 a.m. Thank you very much.
