ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 22nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened under the second paragraph of Article 58 and the second paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Ljudmila Novak, Mrs Iva Dimic, Mrs Eva Irgl, Mrs Jelka Godec, Mrs Irena Kotnik, mag. Matthew Tonin, mag. Mr Anže Logar, Mr Janša, Mr Janez Janša, Mr Matej T. Vatovec, Mr Marijan Pojbič, Mr Tomaž Lisec, Mr Roberto Battelli, Mr Jan Škoberne, Mr Ivan Škodnik and Mr Saša Tabaković. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 22nd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda today, 20 October 2015 by reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of the item from the agenda or for the extension of the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 66 votes against 1. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 22nd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. Period of the day, it's on the motion for a law supplementing the law on defence by emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor first to the Prime Minister, Dr. Mir Cerar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u2	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! You have before you the Proposal for a Law on Complementation of the Defence Act and I would like to brief you on the circumstances in which the Government has put this proposal into the legislative procedure, and only briefly will I take the substance of this law into account. As we have repeatedly explained publicly in recent days, the Government is, of course, gradually stepping up police action, and now the armies in relation to the refugee or migrant problem. You know that we are faced with the great arrival, the influx of refugees by Croatia, and of course we have been preparing ourselves, but this arrival of these people in large groups, in fact in large masses, if so expressed, is such that, of course, the Government, through the Ministry of the Interior and even now the Ministry of Defence, is stepping up those measures that are absolutely necessary to ensure that these refugees or migrants are properly monitored at the border, that if they are crossing the border, the border is being monitored, that they are actually directed to these assembly centres and then after some procedure against the Austrian border, where they are actually heading and where they want to go. The government has also adopted a plan of cooperation between the police and the military, and we are already implementing this plan, so there has already been some escalation of measures in this context. Thus, the military has been involved in these processes for several days, working with the police in a way that helps it, particularly logistically, and aligns with it as provided for in this operational plan. However, in order to ensure effective protection of cross-border crossings and, in particular, the protection of people, property, order and peace, even if this attack of refugees or migrants would further increase, we must also foresee this possibility in order to supplement the Defence Act as proposed, by requiring security conditions - as it has been said - in such a case they may certainly require - on a proposal from the Government, the National Assembly may decide that the Slovenian Armed Forces, exceptionally in the broader protection of the state border, in accordance with the plans and following a preliminary decision of the Government referred to in Article 37(4), may, on a proposal from the Government, the following powers or tasks: they may therefore alert and travel, temporarily restrict the movement of persons and cooperate in the management of groups and crowds. Of course, these powers shall be exercised under the conditions laid down for police officers and the powers and tasks conferred on them, and members of the military shall immediately inform the police, with these measures being in place in a timely manner. They shall, as it is said, be adopted by the National Assembly with the required majority, and the National Assembly shall also set the period within which these measures are to take place; they may only take the necessary time and for a maximum period of three months, and only in exceptional circumstances will the National Assembly decide to extend that measure. The National Assembly, the People's Representation, you are the one who decides on a proposal from the Government if such a situation occurs. If, and I hope, this law will receive adequate support – because you know that this influx of migrants is really very large, the situation is in some way difficult, although we still have it under control, for all of this, we must also foresee this situation as envisaged by this proposal of the law – and, of course, if there is in practice this excessive burden on police and military officers in the current operation, the Government will take a decision on the basis of the legislation so adopted that the police will also be activated with these tasks that I have mentioned, and then the State Assembly will, that is to say you, decide again with the required majority whether this happens. So, of course, there are a number of security guards here, and of course the functioning of the military and the police is in some way already defined differently. However, it is only those additional tasks that are really necessary under such specific circumstances, which therefore require specific security measures. We need to anticipate the situation in such a way that we can react in a timely and correct manner to protect our people, our assets, if this beach or, as we say, the influx of migrants is even greater and too difficult to control so far, I would say, the structure we have on the ground so far. This is the essence of this proposal, of course, in the debate by the Government, we will explain as much as necessary. Of course, I hope that the proposal will receive the necessary support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u3	I also give the floor to Mrs Andreja Katič, Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u4	Mr President, honourable Members and Members, President of the Government, representatives of the ministries! If possible, I can only root out a little of the procedures for the resolution of the migrant crisis, which the Ministry of Defence is also facing. It should be pointed out that internal security and the protection of the state border clearly fall within the purview of the police and that the Ministry of the Interior is the one who is always coordinating all procedures related to the resolution of the migrant crisis. The Ministry of Defence has therefore already been involved in the preparation of a contingent plan, in particular with this humanitarian note, through the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue. 20. 9. The Government has adopted a decision which somehow activates the Civil Protection Staff and thereby provides logistical support to the Slovenian Armed Forces. 17. 10. The Government has decided that the Slovenian Armed Forces shall cooperate with the police in the wider protection of the State border within the State territory and in the protection of certain facilities or areas. And according to a plan of police action prepared on the basis of the police in cooperation with the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces and defining the forms of cooperation between the police and the Slovenian Army in the wider protection of the state border, the Government has also adopted rules of action of the Slovenian Armed Forces in supporting the police in these tasks. The Slovenian Armed Forces also provide assistance to the police in controlling the state border, both through their material and technical means, and can also give them these funds directly for use. As can be seen, the Slovenian Army is currently involved, and I can say that cooperation between the police and the Slovenian Army on the ground is good. On this occasion, I should like to thank all members of Civil Protection, all voluntary societies, humanitarian and other non-governmental organisations involved in civil protection, and of course all members of the Slovenian Armed Forces who have already participated in the resolution of the migration crisis. Today, because the government believes that more effective support for the Slovenian Armed Forces in the resolution of the migration crisis is needed, it is true that the police are supported, we are proposing an amendment to the Defence Act. The activation of the Slovenian Armed Forces to assist the police in the wider protection of the state border is therefore taking place in a two-phase manner. In the first phase, the Government has already decided on the cooperation of the Slovenian Armed Forces with the police on the basis of Article 37, paragraph 4, of the Defence Act, with the preparation of a plan to establish an area in which the Slovenian Armed Forces operates, as well as the way in which the police and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces act in a coordinated manner. According to the law, if the Government decides to activate what it has decided, members of the Slovenian Armed Forces do not have police powers, which means that their cooperation is limited mainly to so-called logistical support and to the monitoring and transmission of observations to the police. And this cooperation has already been decided by the government on Saturday. In the second phase of the activation, if the bill you have before you is adopted, if the security situation we unfortunately have before us so dictates, the Government will decide on a proposal from the National Assembly. The National Assembly will decide that members of the Slovenian Armed Forces may also exercise the tax-related powers when working with the police. The National Assembly will decide on the exercise of those powers, which must be clearly and unequivocally explained in this Decision, by a two-thirds majority of the Members present and Members present. It should also be pointed out that the time for carrying out this task of the Slovenian Armed Forces is limited in time. The time limits are two, namely, the powers may only be exercised during a period when it is strictly necessary for the performance of the tasks but not more than three months. And if, even after the expiry of this period, the security situation is such that the cooperation of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the police and the use of the powers provided for in this Article are still necessary, the period of cooperation may be extended for the same time. We estimate that appropriate cooperation and the exercise of the powers of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the internal security system are properly regulated in the proposed way, that the necessary steps are taken to engage forces, that there is a certain way of rules and the extent of cooperation, and that there is also an appropriate control mechanism. The proposed involvement of the Slovenian Armed Forces will, according to our assessment, ensure greater efficiency of the forces involved in protecting the state border. In particular, I would like to stress that it is not a matter of taking over the security tasks of the Slovenian Armed Forces, and that it is only a matter of complementing and assisting the forces with which the police are at their disposal. The Government proposes that the law be adopted in accordance with an emergency procedure for the sake of the security of the State. It is indeed a systemic measure that will enable the effective management of exceptional security situations related to the protection of the state border, such as the current crisis. Today, there was a thorough debate on the Defence Committee, proposals were modified, adopted. However, I agree with what has been found that, on the basis of this, if the proposals are to be adopted, the Slovenian Armed Forces must, in cooperation with or on a proposal from the police, draw up a more detailed plan of action to complement the rules of operation of the Slovenian Armed Forces so that it is clearly clear when the tasks of the Slovenian Armed Forces are carried out. And I also propose in the decision if this proposal is adopted that the Government also clearly clarifys these explanations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u5	The draft law was treated by the Defence Committee as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Marjan Dolinšk.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, Council of Ministers, colleagues, colleagues! The Defence Committee is at its 16th emergency session. Ten. In 2015, the draft law supplementing the Defence Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly was considered as the working body with a proposal for the consideration and adoption of the draft law by emergency procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 41st session. Ten. 2015 decided that the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Defence should be dealt with on an urgent basis. Representatives of the proposer, Minister of Defence Andrej Katič and co-workers participated in the work of the committee, and the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of Andrej Kurent. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects and made specific comments to Article 1. During the business term, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group tabled an amendment by qualified proposers. On the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, a proposal for an amendment of the Committee to Article 1 was also proposed, which was adopted by the Committee as its own. The representative of the proposer presented the objectives of the bill. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that the Legislative and Legal Service had drawn up an opinion in writing in accordance with the business powers on the proposal for a law and explained their comments in more detail. Due to a brief explanation and accompanying material, some questions are raised regarding the proposal for a law and comments are also made by the nomotechnic nature. In their view, Article 1 of the legislative proposal should be partially corrected, which is presented below. The debate stressed the need to support the proposal of the law, but it is possible to assume that this measure will not be sufficient. Some discussers felt that this measure was unfortunately not timely, that there was no assumption of what was necessary, that we were always solving the case backwards and that the law should already be in force. All the discussers, with the exception of the representatives of the United Left Group, who felt that an intervention law would be needed, announced that they would support the bill in spite of everything, since this is the only option in these circumstances. In the discussion below, the Minister agreed, on the basis of the proposals of the debaters, that the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, may decide on the exceptional powers of the military with a two-thirds majority of the votes of the Members present. Some discussers pointed out that the powers in the draft law were unclear and indeterminate, so they wanted a precise provision in the draft law, which would be legally clear. By a two-thirds majority of the votes of the Members present, the Committee adopted its amendment, which is included in the amended draft law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u7	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the United Left Group, for which Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u8	Thank you for your word and a nice good evening to you all! The law is to be adopted today in order to allow the military to be involved in the resolution of the refugee crisis. But as the Minister told me before, and as the head of the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces said on the home labour force, the military is already involved in the resolution of the refugee crisis. However, former Defence Minister Ljubica Jelusic made a public statement this afternoon that the current legal basis in the current Defence Act is sufficient to carry out all the tasks that the military would have to carry out within the resolution of this crisis in order to assist the police. However, if there are shortcomings, we should adopt an intervention law. In fact, for specific situations as we have today, yesterday, and we will probably have a few more weeks or months, intervention laws must be passed, as we passed the law on the acorn at the time of the floods, the law on strengthening the capital adequacy of banks in the Republic of Slovenia at the time of the floods. But this time the government has decided the opposite, not the intervention law, but the change in the system. And this is not a systematic one, but a change to the Defence Act, which is also a constitutional category. But this is where things get very complicated. In fact, the military is, according to the Constitution, a repressive apparatus of the state that defends the state from the outside. To defend the country on the inside, we have a police force to regulate the civilian situation. And this division, which has been established historically, is not debatable, is very important because we have a number of bad practices from the past when the military began to interfere with the internal affairs of the countries. Without a public debate – the law or bill was drafted yesterday as a decision by the Government at half past four o’clock in the morning – it was already one day in public that a full of experts pointed out, for the first time, the possible unconstitutionality of this law stems from the dilemma that I have just described, for the second time, the possibility of abuse in the past. Now the two-thirds majority of Members will be able to involve the military at any time in solving the problems in the police domain. And here we're essentially taking less than 24 hours of systemic change, which won't last three months, but will last for a long time. The question is, when are we going to get the two-thirds majority back together again to reverse it, if it turns out to be lifeless or possibly even dangerous and harmful? In addition to this, the imperfections found in the law on the working body during the afternoon are added. In fact, it introduces a number of new terms that are not defined at all. Let's say we just look at the new 37a. No one can explain what the security situation means, whereby the National Assembly can essentially activate this law. But the security situation is 5,000 refugees, whether the security situation is perhaps 100 protestors in Celje or in Ljubljana, or whether the security situation is third. Then no one can explain what the wider protection of the border state means. Does this mean that a soldier with police powers can take action in the centre of Ljubljana? Does this still fall under the broader protection of the state border or not? Then, between the powers exercised by the law – it is said that soldiers can warn, travel, temporarily restrict the movement of persons and participate in the control of groups and crowds – so far, in our legal terminology in use only the first, it is "warning", all the other three laws are new and do not define them, does not explain what they mean. Then it's a matter of control. Who will oversee the work of the army? The minister said that surveillance would be carried out in the same way as police work, but the civilian sphere in the military must not interfere, and we all know that. Then there is a question of the coercive means they can use. Can soldiers use police coercive means, or can soldiers use, as the representative of the Legal and Legal Service has pointed out, her own coercive means and exclusively her own, are called firearms? These are all the inconsistencies in this marriage. Therefore, in the United Left, we estimate that the law is simply too prepared, too vague, too misplaced, and, as we have heard from some coalition partners, we would not have supported it until one month ago, and we will also reject it today. However, we suggest that the others do the same and that tomorrow we make a solution that is actually the answer to such situations. And that's the intervention law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u9	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u10	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government, Minister and Ministers! The New Slovenia Group will, of course, support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Defence Act, as we are aware that such a change in the law in this crisis situation is more than necessary. The situation is changing from hour to hour, exacerbating, and there is a legitimate fear that this situation will soon become completely uncontrollable. The police are operating at the upper limits of capacity and it is therefore necessary to actively include the Slovenian Armed Forces in the resolution and protection of the Slovenian and Schengen borders. The problem of the law that we have on the table is its inadequacy or what powers the military will actually have. However, I must also point out that the Government is too slow to adopt measures to effectively manage the migration crisis, as we have before us the adoption of extremely important amendments to the Defence Act, which we Members received on the table only a few hours ago, despite the fact that it was possible to assume that the current situation would arise. For Hungary began to set up fences on its borders at least two months ago. The Government could have prepared much earlier on this extremely important amendment to the law, which is now being addressed by the National Assembly ad hoc and on the basis of an intervention in the legal design of the State's security mechanisms. Today, respected colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, is not the moment for political accounting if you want, politics, political games; the situation is very serious and this moment is also an important so-called political unity. But given the extent and number of migratory flows and the fact that a solution of origin cannot be expected for a long time, in New Slovenia we want the Government to consider setting up a fence to help our security authorities carry out their work in connection with ensuring the safety of Slovenian citizens and also refugees if the situation deteriorates, which is also indicated. The situation when more poor refugees are found in the middle of a cold stream or a river is to be avoided. Slovenia is also a member of the European Union, and in New Slovenia we expect the Government to seek assistance immediately, financially, logistically and also human resources, the European Commission and the special units Frontex, which are intended to protect the Schengen border. If Austria and Germany tighten the conditions for the transition to their territory, there is a legitimate fear that the Slovenian Army, which we are currently engaging, will not be able to keep this kind of pressure on the border. At this point, however, the issue is how the Government is prepared to tighten the entry of migrants in Germany and Austria in its country. What we will do in this, an increasingly probable case, when only the so-called transport to the Austrian border will no longer be possible. In Novi Slovenija, honourable Prime Minister of the Government, we are proposing three proposals to deal more effectively with the migratory wave and to protect the Schengen, for the first time, as has already been said, by setting up a fence at the southern border, even if the situation deteriorates. Because given the extent and number of migrants' flows and the fact that the solution to the crisis itself cannot be expected for a long time, and the growing likelihood that the migration of migrants to the desired country will no longer be possible because they will no longer be accepted, and under other foreseeable circumstances, the setting up of a fence is the right measure that can stabilise the situation and make it more predictable in particular. Secondly, we must immediately ask for the help of the Frontex unit and also the European Union, because if Austria and Germany tighten the conditions for entry into their territory, Slovenia will find itself in a so-called pocket that it will not be able to protect itself. And the third proposal, honourable Prime Minister of the Government, is for you to request a meeting of the European Union summit on addressing the migration crisis and protecting the Schengen border, because Slovenia cannot solve this problem alone, the EU needs systemic measures in this case. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected Government, it is time for decisions, that is what the situation requires of us, that is what citizens require of us, and we must decide today, tomorrow will be too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u11	The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u12	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, all those who follow this session! The Group of Non-Aligned Members will adopt and support the proposed additions. But in doing so, we would point to the facts. We had indications, we had warnings on the basis of which we could make a risk assessment, based, of course, on risk assessment scenarios, what could happen and what solutions would be proposed. That way, we could have this debate done a while ago and have such a law prepared for the day we need it. And other solutions, not just you. This would allow us to take action in a timely manner and act proactively, and so we always act reactively, backwards, with many mistakes. We've been alerted to these mistakes on the committee today. It is that there are incomplete powers that will bring further errors in the implementation of the procedures. We have also warned that some procedures will not be able to be carried out the way we want it to be done, so we will support the proposed measures, but we expect that, once the situation is resolved, we will assess the damage, because the damage has already occurred and will continue to occur, and then we will find out who is responsible for such damage. At the same time, we call for at least now to start assessing risks, making scenarios and proposing measures. Of course, I also expect the Government to play an active role in drawing attention to the causes of the crisis. If we don't deal with this, these fugitives will be more every day. And one more thing — to start putting an end to the pressure on other countries in Europe — those factors that attract these people to Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u13	The word is given by the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group, Dr. László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Ministerial Assembly, Colleagues and Colleagues! In the opening, let me say that we believe that the adoption of the Proposal for a Law on Complements of the Defence Act is necessary in the present circumstances. Otherwise, we estimate that the enormous change in circumstances in the field in recent days is likely to have led to the drafting of the law in haste. This led to some formal and substantive shortcomings in the drafting of the text. However, we hope that the members of the Defence Committee have been able to satisfactorily correct at least the formal inconsistencies that the Legislative and Legal Service has also pointed out. Notwithstanding the foregoing, I should say that it can be speculated and party disputed as to whether the Government of this type of activity, including the preparation of this law, could have done so as soon as it saw what scenario would have occurred at the Slovenian-Croatian state border. But that doesn't help us much right now. Due to the urgent need for immediate more intensive assistance from the police on the part of the military, the bill needs to be adopted today. We have also seen disturbing scenes from the field in today’s reports. At the same time as the adoption of the amendment of the law, however, it is necessary to call on the Government to take immediate action to find other, systemically and substantively more complete, and in particular effective solutions. The closure of the borders between Austria and Slovenia or between Germany and Austria is also discussed. We can only guess at the consequences of such an action today. Until there is a comprehensively coordinated solution at European Union level to the protection of the border between Turkey and Greece and to the effective provision of assistance to accelerate the resolution of problems in the origin of refugee migration processes, Slovenia must at least try to prevent such intentions from Germany or Austria by clearly requesting the two countries and the European Union to take immediate joint action in the consistent monitoring and protection of the Slovenian-Croatian border, which is within this geographical area of the Schengen border. Otherwise, Slovenia will become the so-called pocket, where in fact the refugee-migration crisis will certainly cause unpredictable long-term problems. In addition, by closing internal borders, the European Union's intensive dispersion process, which has longed for and has only come to life after the fall of the Berlin Wall and democratic changes in the eastern part of Europe. I am convinced that no one wants to break those values that are useful and progressive for Europe in the 21st century with partial actions in a moment. There is no doubt that we now need decisive but at the same time calm steps and decisions mainly by the Government. This is what citizens and citizens expect, especially in the municipalities or in areas where problems are faced directly because of the enormous, uncontrolled crossing of the external Schengen border. We must be aware that our existing human resources contingent is not sufficiently sufficient, so aid and upgrading of the current Schengen border protection system are essential. Nevertheless, it is also now possible to express all recognition to the police and humanitarian organisations and other actors in this process, to all those who perform their tasks in a consistent and self-sacrifice. So once again, let me stress and conclude that the proposed amendment to the law needs to be supported and an intensive approach to even more effective short- and long-term solutions so that unforeseen circumstances do not surprise us again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u15	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, for her by Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Hello, President of the National Assembly, colleagues, colleagues, ministerial assembly! In those days, the Republic of Slovenia is at the very heart of the new refugee or migrant wave in Europe. Our country and our citizens have come to the scene of an extremely difficult situation. On the one hand, we are facing one of the greatest civil and humanitarian crises of the modern world, on the other hand, a major security issue. We are aware that the eyes of our citizens, our neighbours, the European Union and also the works of the wider world are at stake with us and that we are facing one of the greatest self-sustaining trials of our country and nation. This requires us to respond to the situation with a state-of-the-art attitude. Today, at an extraordinary session, we consider the adoption of the amendment of the Defence Act as one of the systemic step-up measures prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in order to adequately respond to our country's current migratory situation. The adoption of an amendment to this law, which is one of the basic laws of our country, requires broad two-thirds support from the National Assembly. This fact in itself is important because of two elements. Firstly, because of the required majority itself, it expects and requires the excess of normal coalition and opposition divisions, and secondly, because the National Assembly, as a parliamentary body, ensures that, alongside the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, it is close and finally decisive to tackle this particular migration issue. The Parliamentary Group of the Party of the Modern Centre unanimously supports the amendment of the Defence Act because we believe that this amendment of the Slovenian Army law will temporarily allow additional powers to assist the Slovenian police in the coordinated operation of ensuring the safety of both migrants and consequently the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft amendment of the Defence Act provides for temporary additional powers of the Slovenian Army, which are primarily focused on logistical assistance in guiding and controlling migratory flows and will only be in force if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia requests them, and only for a period of time when this is absolutely necessary, but for a maximum period of three months, with the possibility of extension for the same period. In the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, we would like to reiterate that Slovenia has successfully followed all the prescribed international and domestic legal procedures to ensure that the institutions of the State and local communities, civil society, humanitarian organisations cooperated closely with each other, and that the negotiating kindness, solidarity and humanitarianism of the Slovenian people has also been confirmed through individual responses and assistance from our citizens and citizens. Our response has been given to the respect and approval of the international community, especially the neighbouring countries, and also to the European Union Summit. The second migratory wave that we are facing today is more difficult than the first, unfortunately also due to insufficient cooperation by the Republic of Croatia. The current migratory wave is becoming difficult to control and is on the verge of capacity, as pointed out by the competent institutions of the country. For these reasons, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as a follow-up to the effective management of migration flows and the smooth functioning of the State, proposed these amendments to the Defence Act. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, support for the proposal of the Defence Act is understood as a state-of-the-art act that will ensure the continued smooth functioning of the country and thus the safety of its citizens and migrants in entering and passing through our country. Finally, allow me to reiterate that in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre we believe that the migration flows of today can only be successfully dealt with together with cooperation within the country, while at the same time following the principles of solidarity and assistance between the countries, particularly neighbours, the Member States of the European Union and the European Union's supreme political institutions. That is why we join the calls of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to actively involve the international community in the resolution of the crisis, both by addressing the causes of the migration issue and the common mutual cooperation and assistance. On the inside of the Republic of Slovenia, we will, as has already been said, show our constructive and country-building attitude of the Member and Members of the Modern Centre Party with the unanimous support of the proposed amendment to the Defence Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u17	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that. This is a key security issue. This is how the government defined it in the new law. However, when this matter was dealt with a short time ago by the Defence Committee, neither the President of the Government nor the Minister of Home Affairs nor any other minister was present. Here, when more or less pear matters are under way, because the Government has only 20 minutes to discuss, and in all five hours, the entire Government has been painted, which I think is a major substantive problem in particular. If the President of the Government, ministers and others looked at what was happening in other countries with these refugee waves that they had achieved, if he had seen what migrants were bringing with them and what things were happening, and if the Government were also able to listen to the warnings you received from the Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, our President, on the working bodies of the National Assembly, say the Commission for the Monitoring of Intelligence and Security Services or the SNAV and elsewhere, then the Government would have prepared such a solution and some other areas would have been ready and ready, and now that the difficult conditions for Slovenia have arisen, these laws would actually have been enforced. So the government practically came in fast, overnight with some sort of solution. If the members of the government coalition were consistent, they would say, frankly, that this is a non-systemic and comprehensive solution and they would reject such a law themselves. Thus, with all the legal capacities that the Government has on and under the ministerial team, it came with a solution that did not drink water, according to the household. And what happened on the committee is a sort of problem, and it shows what the government coalition is willing to do to process government laws that are, to say the least, under every criticism. Migrants are a major problem, not only for our country, but they would also be a major problem for some larger country with much better, much more human and technical security resources than Slovenia has. Clearly, however, all these warnings were ignored. What we have been alerting to is that the exit part is slowly closing, crossing the border to Austria and further limiting and likely to be limited, while at the southern border we are witnessing a virtually free flow of migrants to Slovenia. This is a major problem for the country, a major security problem and, above all, a major problem for those local communities that are directly involved, whether it is the congregations, the southern or the northern borders. In particular, this will be a major problem when the number of migrants in these centres will be several times higher than the number of inhabitants in that environment. Such a situation will be unsustainable and it will be difficult to protect and ensure the security of citizens' property and their personal security. We are of the opinion that the entry of migrants must be monitored, that the Government must do everything in its power to ensure a controlled entry, if necessary, with physical obstacles. We should, in fact, do this and we just have to do it, whether it will be military engagement or someone else, but it will show time. However, protection must be provided and the matter must be dropped across the border as far as this country can absorb it. We cannot simply drown ourselves because of migrants in the problems they bring with them. We proposed an amendment to the law. Unfortunately, he wasn't accepted. This amendment is now being repeated. I hope you'll listen to it now. For with these imaginary solutions, which you have written down in marriage, there is likely to be a great problem in implementation. All I can say here is that we will support the marriage. At the same time, we point out that the Government has not carried out its mission, and it is time that some ministers and the President of the Government involved – we note that the combination of impropriety, pompousness and incompetence – leave their seats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u19	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr. Franc Jurša has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u20	President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the President, as well as to the President of the Government and the Council of Ministers! Good evening, colleagues and colleagues! The first migrants came to us in September. We expressed fear that the second wave would be even stronger and more difficult. This is what we are witnessing today, because only from Friday to today have more than 20,000 people come to our country. I must point out that monitoring of the situation is becoming increasingly difficult, affecting mainly the non-operational behaviour of neighbouring Croatia, which sends a large number of migrants to us daily. In recent days, this average of migrants has exceeded what we can and can accept. At first, when about 2,000 migrants arrived in our country, the situation was still manageable. But when about 8 thousand people came to us yesterday – and even today, we can most likely expect similar numbers in the coming days – additional measures must be taken to manage the situation. Once again, I stress that neighbouring Croatia is inoperable. Not only on a political level, but also on an operational level. In neighbouring Austria, the reception capacity of migrants is limited, which could lead to additional problems for Slovenia. The Government and the National Assembly are responsible for protecting the state border, protecting citizens and at the same time protecting all migrants coming from Croatia. On the one hand, we must provide assistance to migrants and, on the other hand, to our security. This, however, can only be done effectively if we control the situation and accept only as many people as we can and provide at least basic humanitarian assistance. Above all, we need to take care of emergency care for the sick, the children, the women and, of course, the elderly. For all this, it is essential that we adopt the proposed amendment to the Defence Act. If the situation so requires, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government by a two-thirds majority of the votes of the Members present, will be able to decide that members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, exceptionally in the wider protection of the State border, will obtain the necessary powers to carry out the tasks associated with the migration crisis successfully. The powers and tasks laid down in the proposed law will be exercised by members of the Slovenian Armed Forces under the same conditions as they were for police officers, but only if this is strictly necessary and not more than three months. We believe that the government will continue to monitor measures in the future in view of the situation on the ground. In the Desus Group, however, we point out that comprehensive political solutions will have to be taken as soon as possible within the European Union. Slovenia cannot solve the problems caused by Syria. In order to resolve the situation in Syria, the European Union will have to become more involved in the search for a political solution. The European Union action plan with Turkey is the first step in the right direction. It is also necessary to provide assistance to countries that first face immigrants. Here I mean Greece, Macedonia and Serbia. We must ensure better cooperation between countries and prevent the burden of this crisis from falling only on transit countries, including Slovenia. Croatia's action is not in the European spirit when migrants are easily brought to the Slovenian border and sent uncontrolledly to Slovenia. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we also advocate the establishment of a refugee office as soon as possible, which will coordinate all necessary activities in relation to the migration crisis. In short, we must do everything we can to protect our country's borders and at the same time offer effective care and assistance to migrants. In the Desus Group, I will support the proposal for a law, as it is essential that we continue to monitor the state border and thus the security of citizens, while at the same time calling on the Government to examine and prepare a proposal for the necessary financial resources to enable the authorities involved to function normally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u21	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u22	Your Honor, good evening. Both presidents, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Due to the difficult refugee problem, which has moved to the borders of Slovenia to a greater extent these days, we need to adopt the necessary legal changes in this house – amendments to the Defence Act, which will not only respond to the acute situation at our borders, but rather set up some kind of support pillar if you want me to start already with Slovenia's activities in solving this severe crisis. This crisis, you know, hasn't happened since yesterday. As is not the search for solutions under the common European roof since yesterday. These, at least for the time being, have hung a piano in some pan-European theorizing or speaking, but the practice of the field, at least in Slovenia, shows something completely different – that the current political interests of some countries, together with the inefficient policy of European space, have built an increasingly complex maze that could say that the maze is without exits, every day with multiple blind streets. There are more than just questions about political reactions. These actions, or better non-actions, are increasingly interfering with the core of this crisis, which is increasingly affecting the refugees of ladies and gentlemen, as well as all European citizens and citizens, moving into the field of security. At first, it was suggested that Slovenia and Croatia would be able to move refugee flows according to the principle of good neighbourly relations and, more importantly, in accordance with some European rules. Because of the increasing number of refugees, some countries, including Croatia, were unable or refused to continue to take on their responsibilities. As the flow grew stronger, few countries in some ways picked up the easiest but also the most risky solutions in the light of common solutions. We have countries around us with wire fences, other countries actually wrote those "exit" on their borders just to get people out of their territory quickly. These countries, with respect, are acting in the mistaken belief that the problem goes away when the last fugitive leaves their territory. These days, thousands of people are brought before the Slovenian border, without agreement, without rules, and especially without the necessary accompanying measures, including by the European Community, how to deal with this serious problem. So far, Slovenia has managed to control the movement of people with the great efforts of the government, the great efforts of police officers, representatives of civil protection, humanitarian workers. In the face of increasing pressure, we must also take the path of legislative change that will help us to adapt the situation more effectively, as well as to continue to ensure security for both our citizens and citizens and, of course, absolutely for refugees. Our duty, and in particular the responsibility of changes to the law, is to empower the Slovenian Armed Forces to support the management of the situation at the Slovenian borders, including by burdening our police officers. Given that we are a small country, we are limited, so it is essential that the Slovenian Army is also involved in the given situation. But not only with logistical assistance, but also with soldiers who, of course, will help to protect our borders and people in line with police tasks and powers. This will only be possible in exceptional cases when the National Assembly considers and adopts a decision by the Government and also adopts it with two-thirds support from the Members present. We think that the situation that has arisen in the decision-making and resolution of this problem needs a calm head in particular. It is on the policy side that it solves matters with discretion, together, and above all without exploiting the issue of overplay, discrediting or measuring power. Dearly beloved, the Republic of Slovenia, with two million inhabitants, is certainly not a country that will solve and solve the refugee problem on its own. In its responsibility to all its citizens and citizens, however, it must respond in line with the situation that has arisen by ensuring the safety of our citizens and citizens, thereby ensuring our humanitarianity and response to the distress of people coming and going from our country. [[sign for the end of the debate]] For all of this, the Social Democrats will support the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u23	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word. [[advertising from the hall]] And then there's mag. Branko Grims, then we will. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u24	Relatively short, calm and so forth. I would like to remind you of a few things; the President of the Government is not, which I very much regret because I thought I would tell him a lot. Janez Janša, this is the one you threw out of Parliament, if you forgot, wrote at the end of August a very long text, which the Slovenian media did not publish. But it was published by European media. In there, he figured out what the government should do. Ladies and gentlemen, you have rejected all of this, ladies and gentlemen, Slovenians, let Slovenian citizens know that the media did not publish it either. And today you're doing everything that you're already at one half of what he suggested, and then you refused. Let's move on. This morning, the Prime Minister of the Government said, "The situation has taken us by surprise." Only a person who can write and read could calculate how many migrants go through Hungary. The Hungarians predicted that the borders would be closed. Anyone who knows little of Europe's geography knew that all of this would come to Slovenia. Anyone could have calculated that we would get tens of thousands of migrants a day — we also got everything, as you can see. And the Prime Minister says he was surprised by the situation. I have warned you personally, on behalf of the Group of Members three times: 1. 9. at the Board meeting, 17. 9 and 23. 9. at the meeting of the National Assembly. On behalf of the SDS Task Force, I said, "Oh, my God, activate the army. If necessary, change the law." You laughed at me, you looked at me strangely, asking for our support today. You'll get it, too, but it's too late. Personally, that's what I'm trying to say to the Prime Minister that there is a legal basis for the engagement of an army! You've already sent an army to the border, because people see it. But the government is looking for a way to say, a way out of this to put it to the National Assembly; it is a burden, a pure laying down of responsibility on the part of ladies and gentlemen, a pure laying down of responsibility. You've already sent the army to the border, and now you're looking for a legal basis. It's a good thing you sent her, I'm in. There's no interior minister here. The public has noticed that. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very competitive dispute between the internal and defence ministries. The public needs to know that. In the case of two ministers or two ministers, the President of the Government cannot be and must not be and must not behave as our President of the Government does. He's not a mediator, he's not anything else, I can't find a smart expression, he's a person who has to hit a table! He's the person who has to hit the table. Six hours yesterday you wrote one article, six hours! And to the Slovenian public today and here with all responsibility – for 5 years I accompanied the work of the Government, and for 1 year I was a member of the Government – I can ensure that our government would accept such a article at a correspondence meeting or a government meeting lasting 5 minutes, 5 minutes! Let's go to the bill and why we tabled an amendment, that is also the essence of my performance. Look, in a competitive dispute between the two ministries, you came up with a text that is legally useless. Lawyers are already calling in and saying that this is constitutionally controversial, as you wrote. See, you wrote something to satisfy yourself and the Ministry of Defence and Home Affairs, and you will put the Slovenian Army and the Slovenian Police in a position when many police officers or many soldiers will be brought before the courts in the first place. Remember, this is how it's gonna be. As I told you, make legal bases, today I tell you, many soldiers will go to court if this article is adopted. What is this "travelling" – what kind of authority is this, is this the authority to stand on the green border and show, there is Austria? If that's it, then write it down. "Travel" is not a legal term that would be used in Slovenian legislation. I am talking to you with all seriousness in order to help you and Slovenia, which you must, which we must save. What's the word, "participate in controlling groups and crowds"? There's no such thing as a legal concept anywhere. And I don't even know what it means to have soldiers holding migrants under the helm for two days or what? Don't put the soldiers in danger. That is why we have written the following very clearly in our amendment. The whole text is yours, nothing's changed, not a dot or comma, but we said the soldiers could "warn". Warning is a police mandate listed in the Law on Police Powers. It's all written in there, when can you warn me how you can warn me, it's all written in there. However, the constitutional assessment of these articles has long been carried out, long ago in police law. All the implementing acts have been made, so the police are empowered to "warn" the mandate the police have been using since 45, and we want to give this authority to the soldiers when they protect the border. Second, "soldiers are allowed to command." I am aware, the Minister has explained to me, and the military representatives have also explained to me that the term "showing" means commanding the army. The term "show" in police lines and in police tasks as a police mandate means ordering, I'll make it simple, or say, you can go here and you can't go ahead. That's an order. We want to give them that authority. Furthermore, we want to give them, "temporarily restrict the movement of persons", which means temporarily restricting the movement of persons in a particular area, just as the directors have, exactly as they do, until the arrival of police officers. But it's the cops who can order detention or anything. These are the three police powers I think we must give to the soldiers. But the police are against it. I'm in favor of the Ministry of Defense this time, if you like, and not for the sake of the internal or the police, because I know the problem is there, but the problem is in the old police heads, excuse me. When we passed the law on red tape, it was the same. The editors can only spread flowers around Ljubljana, teach me, and I hung them up. And the fourth power we want to give, this is the use of three, three, out of 17 police resources, three, namely: the use of physical force – this means that at the border they will be held by the police and will be held by the crowd. Second, using a stick, they're gonna need that too. And the third thing, the means of bonding and fastening. All three means for the exercise of police powers have been tested, since the age of 45 the police have been using them, and they are all defined in legal acts of the police. And if we write it that way, I think we should drink a little bit more, we've had 15 minutes to write it, but this way we'll come up with something that'll really be useful for the soldiers. And the soldiers won't be in the luft, as they call it, so that makes sense to our amendment. Let me just point out a few more things. See, the media reports that the president of the country has agreed that the Austrians and the Germans will have the borders open. I repeat, that's the way it's gonna be, officially. But every day they'll say, "Thousands less people." And within a few days, they'll say, "Now it's over. We're officially open, but we have nowhere to put it." We'll have 30, 40, 50, 60 thousand. How many will we have then? So it is imperative to close the border, ladies and gentlemen. There's a wire to buy yesterday. The fence needs to be bought yesterday, not tomorrow. It was the right time when you laughed at Orbán and told him he was a dictator. It was the right time. The urgency of the special law you have to write today is not tomorrow, but it is to get protective equipment for police officers and for soldiers – without public invitations, without, I will say, revisions and without everything. Write this in the law if you have to, and get it bought today, here and now. Slovenian police have 700 police officers with appropriate equipment. Everyone else is in the salons, ladies and gentlemen. Are we going to leave them in the salons to walk in the cornfields? It's not possible. Bring the law. The wire fence as soon as possible, the better, the sooner the better. The Croats say they're going to set them up, too. Yeah, they're gonna run out. They're only in China now. Order a German cargo plane and bring them in. Don't joke! The question is the security of this country. We are today in a moment that is as decisive as it was in 1991. That's when they made it. Are we gonna make it? We will uphold the law, not because, as the leader of the parliamentary group said, he is good, so that we will not blame what we may then be, if the border has not been secured. That's not true. That's why we're going to support the marriage. Try to follow this amendment, which will be much better and much more useful for real work on the ground. In my own name, without a parliamentary group – I think the government deserves an interpretation, not because of today's work, but because of what you haven't done since August 15th, we have warned you. That's me. I wish you a success. Secure the Slovenian people. Secure our citizens in such a way that it will be effective. And in doing so, you have our full support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u25	The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! If the Slovenian government in 1991 and the Demos coalition were so lame and as ridiculously as the current government, Slovenia would never have been independent, ladies and gentlemen. For what was happening was completely predictable. It was obvious. On the basis of publicly available information, I am not talking about all the information provided by the relevant services. Today, whoever says that he was surprised by this situation – what is happening, I announced two and a half months ago at a press conference, and I said what will happen: that one fence will be at the Bulgarian border, where it has already stood, that the other fence will be at the Hungarian border, that it is on the other side of the Adriatic Sea corridor and at the top of this corridor will be Slovenia, and that Slovenia will have to rely itself firmly on its own strength, and nothing will count on anyone. Why? For a simple reason, because in that first, completely flawed work of the European Union, it was simply not possible to talk seriously about things, and then it was clear in advance that sharp cutting measures would be followed so that if the external borders of Europe were open if the Schengen were not implemented, borders would be set within the European Union. I firmly believe that enough energy will still be gathered to keep what is happening at some point in the coming months firmly cut. Because if this really takes years, as they say – now it is not even four, which was an American assessment, now we are talking about five to ten years – then the European Union will simply be gone, we will have a completely different problem, because once again we will be completely independent, we will have the opportunity and the duty to defend our own borders. But let us all hope that something like this will not happen and that Europe will still be united to this extent, that it will find the right answer, that it will fix things where it is needed, that is, at its source, and that it will break and cut them and, of course, sort things out in accordance with positive legislation. If we were to act rationally, if we had a bit of a strategic view, then today, together with the Visegrad Group, we would have a physical fence set here, and we would have declared a nice closure of the border, and all that we're dealing with here today would not be necessary at all. Probably not. For if you start by acting thoughtlessly, if you allow a serious security threat to occur, you will later have to take worse measures and take responsibility for the harmful consequences and also for any violence that may occur on this basis. And at this point, we regret that all the time that would be available for security preparations has been delayed. With the committee I run, we have, together, unanimously, all the members of the Commission have tried to draw attention to this problem. An extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly was one month ago, and nothing happened. There's talk here today. How surprised we are. Exactly what was going on these days, we all foretold in turn. Don't tell me then that someone's surprised. It just means he's pretending to be pulling someone's nose right now, or he's apologizing for sleeping until then, or he's fighting. For many figures say that there have been quite a number of conflicts in the government – either there will be one ministry or there will be another, or there will be one minister or there will be another. It was about money, about money sharing, and things didn't go right. Above all, there was a lack of determination, coordination and determination. We have done everything in the SDS to make a decisive policy to work together and to build Slovenia together as we did at the very beginning. Even today we will act in a state-of-the-art way, we will uphold the law, I hope that with our amendment, if not without it. The objective of this amendment is just to protect our boys, because there is nothing else in the game. But you need to know that when these people go, in the first place the police, now even the military, set their backs for the safety of all other people, because that's what this is really about, they expose themselves. And if the rules of the game are clear and proper – and only such, by the way, are constitutionally permissible – then, of course, there can be no complaints, complaints and everything else that is going on. However, in order to be able to do so, let me remind you that in Slovenia we also have such — that I do not use any very bad word — people who do not deserve any respect at the very first wave of migrants when Slovenian provokers went to the border to provoke Slovenian police officers and to provoke violence in order to take pictures in front of cameras and carry out certain political pressures. And if that happened then, believe me, these same or similar in a few months or years will be suing those of our boys who we will not adequately protect today with proper legal standards, that they will have a good legal basis for their actions, for their own protection and for the protection of all people, citizens and citizens; for protection is a matter of security. This was the only objective of the entire debate that we had on the Committee, and this is also the objective of this amendment that we have tabled today. As we say, in any case, we will support the marriage. This will also show the huge difference between a country-efficient political environment and left-wing people in Slovenia. For when it came to Slovenian independence, to refresh the memory, the key acts of military law, budget and so on were generally accepted by one single majority vote, because all the other side, the Slovenian transitional left voted strictly against. We're not gonna do that. We will support everything that is necessary to ensure that things move in the right direction and to care for the good that we are aware of only then, as well as health when we lose it. This is a security issue, and this is what we are talking about today.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u27	Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u28	Dear President, thank you very much! Today we are facing a situation that could have been mitigated by measures from two months ago. Today we can speak, we can add as a label to this government not only life in a period of time, some of the measures that some previous governments have taken to ensure that we today have some minimum economic growth. We can talk in particular about passivity, about irresistibility, about ease of mind, and not least, because we have the Prime Minister of the Law, about the culture of flight, the great negligence that he has caused by his actions — him and, above all, the Minister of the Interior. We are talking about the third constitutional element that every creation called the State has. The first is the territory defined by the border, the second constitutional element of nationality is citizens and citizens, and the third is the exercise of sovereignty in this area. Fourth and fifth – one is a state arrangement, the fifth is a recognition of the other state works of this country. It does not implement the third constitutional element on 20 October 2015. It shall not exercise forcefully because of the laxity of the executive branch. This government has strongly rejected the assistance of the European Union, in particular people, technology, money aid, has not decided to provide technical protection, as decided by the neighbouring Republic of Hungary, and this refugee flow has shifted towards the weakest article protecting the external borders of Schengen, and this is Slovenia. Slovenia has 670 kilometres of external borders with Croatia, of which more than 200 kilometres of river borders, and this government has thought lightly that it will be able to protect this border with some 100 policemen, underdressed, with inadequate equipment, as explained earlier by colleague Gorenak. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the situation is not, we can say, hopeless, but it shows where thoughtlessness, passivity and we are not masters of our destiny can lead us. I have no doubts myself, I have never had when it comes to state-of-the-art matters, not to press the "for" button, especially because we protect health and property, especially citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, because we were elected by them, we need to protect them in the first stage. Indirectly, in the context of humanitarian action, also those who are coming and who have been given an easy hope of crossing the territory of the Republic of Slovenia because of the failure to carry out certain matters. And that's the problem we have right now. The Ministry of Defence, as I said on the Committee, is very little to blame for this situation with the Minister. Because it is now carrying out that passive part or another part of these measures precisely because the Ministry of the Interior, together with the President of the Government and perhaps the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, has not done so. And if we move on to the article, i.e. to the amendments to Article 37 – I have my own concerns, especially if we take a meaningful look at today's Law on Police Tasks and Powers, as it is called, and this law mentions in Article 33 what these powers are. And as colleague Gorenak spoke, which is an expert in this field, these powers are verified, they are certain. And all these powers in this law have later articles — from Article 34 — and I almost think that to Article 90 — described all these acts, as they picture them. All these powers have been exercised for decades, not only in the former country, but also in similar state arrangements in the European Union and beyond. That is why we have had on the Defence Committee, I can say the majority of the groups of Members, concerns about the second, third and fourth paragraphs of this Article, in particular in the words 'travel, temporarily restrict the movement of persons, participate in the management of groups and crowds', when, by what means, by what means and how. So, he doesn't know these verbal alliances of the Law on the Tasks and Powers of the Police. They've never been used in a scratch and it's never been done. That is why we request or recommend, or any way, that we ask you to make this amendment, but which has within it specific police powers which can reasonably be applied under the Law on the Tasks and Powers of the Police, which have been applied in practice, which are definitive, which are described as having a mode of operation. It is precisely because we are now protecting the conduct of soldiers in emergency situations, but the situation is getting worse from minute to hour, respected colleagues and colleagues. We have today an outing in Shentil, where they aggressively breached the refugee fence and voluntarily crossed to Austria. We have a transition through Slovenia to Jesenice, where the Austrians, we can say, have protected their territory because they have the only transition they have at this time in Šentilje. On the other hand, we have mass crossings across the green border. On the one hand, we have a police force, and within the police force, which would have called in at this time, we could have carried out some of the trainings we did not carry out and so on. As the colleague said, also the acquisition of technical equipment that could protect Slovenian territory and respect the third constitutional article of the State. And, dear colleagues, I believe that you will listen to the arguments of my remaining colleagues, who will try to explain in particular the concerns and, above all, the arguments that we are not making these mistakes in the future. And we have therefore covered these arguments in this amendment, so we are talking about police powers, which have a domicile that has been implemented in practice and which are therefore reasonably possible to use precisely this joint action in Slovenia between the police and the military. And it will have to be realized that the military in all its history has never before and never exercised such powers. It has carried out certain actions in the context of natural disasters, which of course you know. Therefore, I appeal, my fellow Members and colleagues, it is over, the sitting in comfort is over, especially to those who are in the government that you are in the coalition Now the devil has taken the joke, the time we had, we have thrown it over our shoulder, and now it is time to resolve the situation, so please support the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u29	Now I'm going to read the ones that are still on, and then I'm going to re-start because there's quite a few of them, so it's going to be clear what the order is. Next she will get the word of Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer, then she will get the word of Mr. Joseph Horvat, then Mr. Jernej Vrtovec, mag. Andrej Šircelj, Igor Zorčič, Matjaž Hanžek, Anja Bah Žibert, Dragan Matić and Marko Ferluga. Then it goes off, okay? So you know what the sequence is. So Dr. Simon Kustec Lipicer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u30	Thank you very much, President. Today since 2 p.m., since the beginning of the Defence Committee, which has considered this amendment to the Defence Act, which we are also considering now in plenary session, has been in the air since then, in fact, this issue and this content, which is now addressed by colleagues from the SDS. And from the explanations we have been able to obtain so far by the Minister of Defence, it was also possible to understand that a certain set of answers must be provided or expected to be submitted by a representative of the Ministry of the Interior, because in fact the whole matter is substantively referring to cooperation or some relationship between the Slovenian Police and the Slovenian Army. So this is my question, on behalf of the entire Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, to be addressed to the representative of the Ministry of the Interior. In fact, if you can provide us with explanations or answers to the following questions: where, then, will all these powers be defined, i.e. warning, travel, temporary restrictions on the movement of persons, participation in group and crowd management? So, first of all, substantively, how and where will this be defined, in what way – because this is the first thought or doubt that we have here – and the second question, if I put it very simply – who will lead this game? Will the game be led by the Slovenian Army or the Slovenian Police? So these are the issues that remain open and in this connection I would like to refer to the proposed amendment of the SDS Group of Members and your position in which there is a substantive difference in relation to the original proposal. So the original amendment is purely in terms of the substantive powers and responsibilities of the Slovenian Police as the primary institution of internal security of the country and your position, your assessment of these proposed amendments in relation to this original version of the document.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u31	Please, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u32	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u33	Yeah, thank you very much. I would ask if these conversations, colleagues and colleagues could do it outside. Thank you very much. Dr. Mitja Horvat has the word. Here you go. Yes, there you go. Excuse me, Mr. Joseph Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Chairman. I understand that you will first give the opportunity to the Government to answer the question of the Head of the Group of the Modern Centre Party, but of course I thank you for your word. If we look at the timeline of the past few decades of the history of the European Union, some events have already been mentioned today, we see the following. On 3 October it took 25 years, a quarter of a century since the German merger, which resulted from the fall of the Berlin Wall, which took place, as we all know, on 9 November 1989. If I go a little further next year in this time series, then our country will celebrate the 25th anniversary of the Republic of Slovenia. What the configuration of Europe will then be, we do not know. Why don't we know? Because we are engaged and we are witnessing this moment of refugee crisis, which the EU simply cannot find the right solutions to. And this refugee crisis is actually the subject of many debates at many European and also global conferences, but clearly there is not yet a solution. The new Slovenia has already proposed, inter alia, a meeting of three committees on 29 September last month. That's what we realized. That's when some people said, yes, that's the pier. We had no intention of running with this fate of many lives of refugees and with the fear of our citizens and citizens of pirates. We wanted solutions. We wanted accurate information. At that time, I said that the EU must have an information system that would show exactly how this refugee flow is moving, if you want, through this Balkan route or the Balkan route. We know that if you can see my wristwatch from the satellite, then it's easy to figure out how this refugee wave is running. And countries that need to act here and cooperate in a coordinated manner should also take this information into account. New Slovenia does not, as has already been said, have any problems in supporting this amendment to the law. I reiterate my support for this law to the Minister because we have a state-of-the-art attitude – or not to ministers, more citizens and citizens. Citizens and citizens are looking at us and calling us because they're scared. Someone called me from my constituency days ago abroad to tell me that people are afraid of what measures will be taken, whether Slovenia is ready. And, let's just say that you will understand what the perception of people when they meet refugees is, and the question followed is, can we really not get anything from Ljubljana in Prekmurje as refugees? That's what I'm saying because that's the perception of people. And we're here to make decisions. And the government is, of course, the first to propose decisions to the National Assembly that act decisively, responsibly, rationally, also in accordance with agreements at European level. The government could, in my opinion, prepare an extremely important amendment to the law, which is now being examined by the National Assembly by ad hoc, and on the basis of an intervention in the legal design of the State's security mechanisms, earlier. The refugee crisis hasn't happened since yesterday. The second point I would like to draw attention to in the event that Austria and Germany exacerbate the situation at their borders – also 7,000 of our soldiers, Slovenian soldiers on our border will not be enough to ensure the safety of our citizens and refugees. We are talking about ensuring the security of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and the security of refugees, because this is our responsibility. About this a little later. Next time, the government should immediately request the help of Frontex and the EU, as Slovenia will find itself in a pocket that it will not be able to manage on its own. Slovenia is a transit country with 2 million inhabitants and there are about one million migrants on the Balkan route. Slovenia will not be able to solve this situation on its own by the nature of this problem. Why I am talking about the fact that we must immediately, perhaps the President of the Government of Dr Miro Cerar should propose a meeting, once again an extraordinary European Council. See, the European Council and the European Commission proposed solutions and on 17 September this year the European Parliament adopted a legislative resolution on the introduction of temporary measures in the field of international protection for the benefit of Italy, Greece and Hungary. Where are we? Today, in fact, we are in the same situation. There are, of course, different types of aid, including financial assistance. And let me point out once again as I have been: Slovenia is not hungry for European money, but we simply have limited capacity and that is why the institutions of the European Union are here, so here is also the budget of the European Union, and this needs to relax, the resources need to relax in order to try to tackle this problem as rationally as possible, the acute problem of refugee as possible. The situation is critical, so it is important and urgent that the Slovenian Government consider setting up a fence to help our security authorities ensure the safety of Slovenian citizens and refugees. It must never happen again that anyone would send these refugees into the mud, literally, what we watched on TV and in the pictures, and into cold water. Let me also say here what some of you have mentioned explicitly, but I will be more implicit: on 2 April 2013 I said here about the speaker that I expect Slovenia to receive a new European neighbour on 1 July 2013. I'm not going to comment from here on this. Furthermore, the Government should urgently require the European Union to mediate in establishing proper communication and coordination between the two members of the European Union, Slovenia and Croatia. There should be coordination on the part of the European Union and I do not know why such inefficiency is simply so. Colleagues and colleagues, I came from Geneva a few hours ago, where the 113th Assembly of the Interparliamentary Union – IPU was. We were talking, of course, about the refugee problem, about the refugee crisis. But you have to imagine something. The IPU has 167 member states, 130 countries were present, of which only a few countries, of course, are participating in this refugee route or the Balkan route. And, a little bit or a little bit more saddened me, there were the loudest Members from Syria. But let's leave these details now. It is not detailed, however, that today this assembly, some 800 parliamentarians of the whole world, has adopted one resolution which actually speaks of the need for refugee countries to ensure their protection in the light of this worst refugee crisis since World War II, in accordance with the principles of international refugee and humanitarian law. This was said to be the World Conference of National Parliaments in Geneva today. Almost 800 parliamentarians from 135 countries, I made a mistake earlier, I said 130, from 135 countries, today the adoption of an emergency emergency resolution of 133rd Assembly of the Inter-Parliamentary Union reiterated the urgency and commitment of countries to preserve the lives of refugees and to provide the needs for their resolution. And so on. You can read this resolution on the website. As far as the amendment of colleagues and colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party is concerned, I do not think they would have made any mistake if they had supported this amendment. I'll back him up. It is my understanding that the activities of the military are slightly more precisely defined. Of course, we know this is necessary. We know all those who have ever been in the army or a pauper of war for Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Boštjan Šefic, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, Mr President of the Government! I must admit that I was a little surprised at the question, given that this bill is proposed by the Ministry of Defence, so I will try to answer these questions as briefly as possible. First, it must be said that, of course, the police are responsible for monitoring the state border in accordance with the State Border Control Act. Secondly, of course, in accordance with the Schengen Code, it is concerned with the supervision and implementation of all measures at this border by the police or security authorities of our country. Of course, protecting the state border in line with the Schengen also means deep within it, as it is called. This means that we are also implementing certain so-called compensatory measures. These compensatory measures are intended primarily to combat terrorism, organised crime, trade in white goods and other serious crimes, as there are no internal borders within the Schengen area and, of course, through these compensatory measures, we are somehow replacing those measures that have been in the past at our present internal borders. Therefore, there are, of course, also, as you know, police stations for compensatory measures, which mainly implement these measures professionally. As I said before, the border guard is being carried out by the police. In certain exceptional cases, it is said that this fourth paragraph is I think that Article 37 of the Defence Act, but of course it also gives the possibility to use members of the Unit and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces to protect the state border. Here, of course, in connection with Article 24 of the Service Act in the Slovenian Army. This is actually happening in Slovenia. As has been said, the Government has adopted an appropriate decision and, of course, since yesterday – at this moment, I think that 140 members of the Slovenian Armed Forces are involved in these activities related to our borders or migrations, and I must say that these activities, based on the plans and all the acts adopted, are of course going extremely well. And this cooperation at the border, even in the course of today, when there were some difficult situations, of course this cooperation proved to be good, effective and, of course, very useful. It is true, however, that under this existing regime, members of the Slovenian Armed Forces can carry out tasks solely in accordance with the plans they have drawn up, i.e. within the framework of police plans, under the direction and direction of the police and always in the presence of police officers. All activities relating to persons are carried out by police officers and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces are assisted and cannot perform because they do not have police authority, they cannot carry out certain measures. The proposal prepared by the Government allows the Slovenian Army, under certain conditions, to carry out independent activities, says those listed in the law, still under the guidance and guidance of the police, but can carry out these tasks independently. So, there is no need for a police officer to take part in this, and this is a significant burden or lift, I will say, a number or a greater burden on the work of police officers on individual tasks at the state border. And from this point of view, of course, this bill has this added value. Of course, I still think that the twenty-five powers the police have do not exercise. Since the Member asked me, I think that for the last indent of this amendment, I would only say the following: there is one problem, of course, that, of course, these powers can only be exercised by authorised persons, adequately qualified. In my opinion – otherwise I am not an expert in the military, here my colleagues have much better knowledge – but I think this is mainly about or could be about members of the military police who exercise police powers, not about civilians, but about military personnel. So there's probably going to be, or there's going to be, whatever, some problems. At least in my understanding, this part can then also refer to compensatory measures within, it is said, in the broader protection of the state border. So much for that, very briefly, I won't be too long, and I won't be stealing time. However, I would only tell Mr Hrovat that, despite all the obstacles, the situation is completely under control and the system is working, both the security system and the performance of security tasks as well as all other tasks or activities related to the provision, accommodation and so on. However, energy will still have to be invested enormously in this regard, particularly if this migratory flow does not stop and is unlikely to stop in a very short time. At least that's how they show you now, I'll say, our grades. So much for a little while. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mrs Andreja Katič, Minister of Defence, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u38	Thank you, Vice President. In fact, I would complement or further explain, perhaps even in response to what has been said. The Slovenian army is already working on the ground, yes, but works on the basis of Article 37, paragraph 4, on which the Government has also adopted a decision and what I have said in fact in the introduction. As regards the tasks we have before us or the powers we have, it is clear that the Slovenian Army will only carry out those tasks that will be clearly defined and only those in which it will clearly explain what they include. If this agreement between the police and the Slovenian Army is not achieved, the Slovenian Army will not exercise any tasks or powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word has Mr. Jernej Vrtovec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u40	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr President of the Government! In New Slovenia, according to our predictions, we will already support the law. We will also support the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. In fact, this amendment is extremely on the spot because it further specifies, if you want, what powers will the soldiers have to protect the border or help the police. And this is extremely important, because if we don't define it in such detail, we have a legitimate impression that we would want an army at the border, but we don't know exactly what to do with it. And even with what the Minister of Defence has just said, I have a question; several times the Minister herself has said that the Government will prescribe more detailed powers as to what the Slovenian Army can use, and the question follows is whether this will add to this law? So when will we accept this supplement, when will this be prepared, and how much longer will we wait for it if this is the case for the supplement? For this reason, I would ask whether it is wiser to specifically write these powers into the law itself, what the Slovenian Democratic Party proposes, so that we will not have any subsequent problems? Because after this bill, which is now, I don't know if a soldier will be able to use a tear gas. And before that, I think there's been a talk on this issue. If two migrants, what's going on, are going to fight each other, fight each other, be able to intercede a soldier, or not? These are the specific issues that are taking place at the border, and these issues are being resolved by the police. How this will be handled by the army, Madam Minister, we need your explanation here tonight. However, let me go back to the very basis that we have come to today's decision on such an important issue, and it is worth mentioning that we are actually very late in this decision-making process. And somehow in this case, the government, I'm sorry, but you remind me of a winter job that is surprised by snow every year. So you seem to have been surprised by this migratory wave, although the indications from Turkey were that there were in fact more than a million migrants coming, the movement towards Europe was very clear, the one with the radio receiver on, the TV on, could see what was happening on the Macedonian-Serbian border, even earlier on the Greek-Macedonian border. and that was the possibility of predicting this situation, and therefore this law was at least possible to be harmonised in advance, and you have coordinated it on the committee today, or you have not been harmonised tonight. And that is a key problem, I believe that the public would also say if this law were passed a month ago, "but what we need is that there is no fugitive anywhere," but you could coordinate and come into line with this National Assembly. However, with certain members of this government, the opposition is more coordinated than within the coalition itself, as it is visible through the device. It was also possible for Hungary to close its borders. Mr Šefic, you have been following this well for the last two months, and we all knew where this migratory flow will be diverted to Slovenia, so that Slovenia will have to bear this burden. This is why the criticism of the government is completely in place, but at the same time a great appeal and a warning that the government is finally starting to make a decision. I do not criticize here in terms of what has been wrongly done and so on, but in terms of encouraging decision-making, because this is the moment Slovenia needs. In this crisis situation, I stress, it is an important factor in decision-making. In particular, in terms of reports on what is happening in Germany, what is happening in Austria, even in Sweden, if you want, and that Slovenia will in fact, in case of exacerbation by Austria and Germany, in order to make their borders virtually impenetrable for migrants, then Slovenia will become a certain prisoner. There will be an additional problem, we can have more than tens of thousands of migrants in our territory. And completely unprepared. The key question is that once again the government will not say, "this migratory wave has surprised us". The key question is whether the Government has the answer to this scenario. Madam Minister, Mr Šefic's coordinator, answer this question tonight, not to say, 'we have something in our sleeve, and we will give it in a month', so that you will not be surprised again, like everyone else, by this situation, when 20,000 migrants have crossed the border from Friday to now, and we are adopting this law, the people of God. For this reason, especially as a preliminary measure, I propose to you once again, Frontex, and I am pleased that the President of the Government, at least on Twitter, according to reports, has just assured you that we will ask for assistance in this case of the EU, well, here are congratulations. Top of the EU; Slovenia will not be able to resolve this country on its own; therefore, in New Slovenia we propose that Slovenia, if you want, should take up the EU summit in this respect, that the EU should tackle this problem in a unified manner. Because, as we have said many times, the problem must be solved at its source, and Slovenia alone will not be able to overcome this problem. And finally, such an infamous fence. Why the fence? Because we will not have an uncontrollable transition across the green border, across rivers, streams, beyond dangerous obstacles that refugees are also picking up. And it's a danger both to them and to us that people won't just come in the middle of Zlatz and be there and be exposed to such and different dangers. As a result, so to speak, a fence that will serve primarily the purpose of making our security authorities more efficient in carrying out their work. So, the army and the police. It is not in terms of the fence that it is about preventing the arrival of Islamisation or anything, in terms of this cultural identity and so on, but it is in terms of security. And we won't be hitting each other on the head in a month when Austria sets up a fence on Caravanka and says, "What do we want to do now?" Then we'll be too late to do anything on Kolpa and on Sotla and on Mura. Then it'll be too late. Therefore, let us take action now. And the fence is still in place, once again, in terms of security, ensuring this primary security of both refugees and citizens. Finally, I encourage, I do not criticize, I encourage decision-making, because, as I have already said, those who have turned on German television are not both the best and no one guarantees us, no one guarantees us, this can also be confirmed by the Foreign Minister, that Germany will not for one day decide: 'entering our country is no longer wanted as it has been so far', despite the fact that Germany also has a moral duty to this crisis, but that is not guaranteed, so let us be extremely prepared in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable representatives of the government! During the meeting, I began to worry even more about this migrant issue and the measures presented by the Government of Mir Cerar. Here was the President of the Government, who is no longer among us, I do not know whether he is coming back or not, but he did not answer one of the key questions – whether there is a competent dispute between the Minister of Interior and the Minister of Defence regarding the powers that should be accepted today for the Slovenian Army, which should be at the border. We didn't get that answer today. What this means to the people, to the soldiers, to the police at the border, we have no answer today. What does that mean for the safety of soldiers, what this means for the safety of police officers, we don't know. As a result, we do not know what this means for citizens and citizens and for the property of the people in this area. The Prime Minister did not respond to this, as shown by the movement, rhetoric and some signs in this Chamber, there was also some discomfort among the representatives of the Government. However, the appearance of this is not the best and the appearance is not such that it provides us and citizens with some kind of security, coherence, ensuring that the government actually knows what it wants. And I'm even more worried about that than I was worried about before this session started. And I hope and wish that the Government will answer the question of what it really means for a soldier who will stand on the border and who can be subjected to physical violence; whether it will be able to defend itself, how it can defend itself, how it will protect the border, by what means, by what means, or by itself, or by the police, or whether when it is attacked, it will wait for a policeman to come, or not, and so on, and what does this amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party mean, compared to the present solution. Whether it is better, worse, or more certainty, less certainty and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, things are getting a little more serious, it's about life and responsibility for these lives of people. And here will be the responsible Minister of Defence, here will be the responsibility of the entire Government, and if she disagrees, she will have to say it after this meeting or whenever and say, "Look, I disagree, I do not accept responsibility and I will just give up." But I'm actually worried here today because there are no clear answers. That's very worrying. It is also worrisome that we do not have an assessment of the actual situation today from the Government, neither at today’s meeting nor at previous meetings. We Members who adopt this legislation here receive an assessment of the status of POP TV, RTV, media and so on, how many refugees will come here, which train goes from Čakovec to Slovenia and so on; in fact they are familiar with the timetable and occupation of trains. We don't get any numbers or data from the government. Not only is the situation today, not just how many beds are missing, but not just how many people are outside, I will say, boundaries, out of control, not how many are under control, not how many are empty or how many are full beds. We don't get any status assessments from the government. I wrote down what the President of the Government said: "A large number of people are coming from Croatia. The government is stepping up." How many people come where they come, why come, what is the nature of people and so on? "procedures." What other measures are we going to take here?Oh, my God! What measures will you take, what are the following measures? What are the security conditions? How many migrants are there? And the only thing that cheered me up, what the President of the Government said in his address, is that we have to protect people and property. This made me happy because this was already a debate and a debate on when, of course, some might not even agree with such a dictatorship. And we actually don't have this analysis of the state of the government, and we don't have what the next action is going to be, how it will react and so on. Moreover, just days ago, the Prime Minister of the Government said, "We will protect the Schengen border." All right, great. Let's look at the media and see how we protect it and how this Schengen border changes. Whether the Schengen border has changed in the meantime and in fact the Schengen border rules have changed or, here, the fact that this Schengen, the protection of this Schengen border, is not effective, to say the least. The Prime Minister said, "We're not in an emergency." But today we have an extraordinary session or an urgent session and we are taking some extraordinary measures and emergency measures. At least I expect this government to pour pure wine. That she'll give us information about where we really are. And tell citizens and citizens what they know, if they don't know and we need to hear it from the media, then I don't know where all the jobs they do. Or the government and ministers are monitoring the media to know what's going on in the field. I don't know. Here it looks like the only media is ready for what's going on. And we really don't get any information about what's going on today. Even less information was received when we pointed out the problems that were taking place about a month ago, two, three, and that it was necessary to think back then that measures should be taken. We were simply rejected at the time. With any suggestions. And today in the media, of course, we hear that communication with Croatia is broken, that it may be on some lower levels of communication and so on. And see if we have at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs a brain trust, a strategic trust to figure out how Croatia will be. History teaches us what happened with such measures with Croatia. Since we've had a self-serving war, let's move on. And is it not perhaps the issue that it is possible for Croatia to be in the interest of chaos on this border? So she can tell the others, "Look what the Slovenians are doing." Were we not prepared for Croatia to actually release migrants, refugees forward without telling them where they were going without telling them which territory, which area and so on? And then the Slovenian police, the army, they're looking for them in the meadows, the woods, the lights and so on, and they're heading in the right direction at all. Look, I'm in favour of humanitarianism, but it's not humanitarian to believe that this is actually going to happen. And I'm sorry, there's not enough ratings in the whole area. And isn't it already when we've been monitoring information from two, three months ago, what will be happening, what Hungary is doing, what other countries are doing, it's clear that the only corridor to go through Slovenia will be going in this direction, and that migrants will be coming here. Look, it was. But the government's reaction, it wasn't there. And of course, I don't think there's any pre-strategic thinking about what's going to happen tomorrow, but we're just left to an extraordinary fair, to the extraordinary measures that are going to happen. By the way, it must be said that the government is not thinking either tactfully or strategically, but by actually putting out the fire. The Minister of the Interior refused the assistance of other European countries in order for other police officers to come to the Slovenian border. Today, the President of the country in Brussels, Pahor, says that he has asked for help to bring police officers from other countries to the Slovenian border. Probably has to be formally done by the government or whatever, I hope this actually happens. But I'm sorry, tell me that's not true! One day like that, the other day a little different. Where is the concept of where is a plan to solve the migrant or refugee crisis? So that with this government and this non-synchronisation of the functioning of this government, which is also reflected in statements, actions and so on, I see nothing good in the future, and in fact nothing good will happen about the effectiveness of this resolution. Here, of course, we can talk about the fact that we have 3,000 people in Šentil, that the police and other forces are at the border of capacity, this is told at 13.53 by the Director General of Police, and here the Government has a competent dispute as to how the military and police will behave at the border. It's like they're gonna parade themselves around there like there's no crowd there, like there's not much risk of violent acts. One or the other. And given that the proposed amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party specifies more precisely the powers and conduct of the army at the Slovenian state border with Croatia, I think it is necessary for both the coalition and all others to have a sober reflection on the adoption of this amendment. For any comma, any word that provides greater security, less risk, is welcome. And this isn't about client business, this is about security, this is actually about people. And I call on the coalition to be reasonable, real and to look primarily at what will be better for citizens and citizens and how soldiers will feel and feel at the border more secure. I will support this amendment, as I will also support amendments to the Defence Act, even though I don't think it's ideal. And I urge the government to react more quickly, more decisively, and to resolve the competent disputes that the President of the Government will do and decide. Just like cops and soldiers will have to make decisions at the border. This isn't about any stories about who's wiser, who's smarter at this point. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, this is about life and take this into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Joseph Horvat, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Given that in an hour and a half, today's day will end and it was somehow in the air that this law should be adopted today and tomorrow and so forth; I am confident of the situation we have that we should have an army immediately in action on the ground, now, not in an hour and a half, immediately. But then I think about our legislative process, which of course we all know, and now, of course, I would like to have someone here – or the Legislative-Legal Service or the Government, whoever, I will be very pleased with, anyone – actually tell you clearly when the Slovenian Army can go into action? In fact, the legislative procedure states: "The Council of State may, within seven days of the adoption of the law and before its promulgation, require that the Council of State decide on it once again. The decision of the State Council is binding. The National Assembly must rule on the law again. He'll do it at his first next session. Re-decision requires a more demanding majority than was necessary for the adoption of the law." Well, this is not the case in this case of the law, but I now have a question, or I demand an answer, when can the Slovenian Army get an order, because the army gets an order to go to the field, I don't know, like Petisovce? I don't think it could have been a week ago. Here I would also like to give a clear answer to the Slovenian public by the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service and thank you for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Ms Andrej Katić, Minister for Defence, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u46	Thank you, Chairman. I must say that it will certainly be clear, as we have already said here and on the committee today, that the responsibility of regulating the migration crisis is the responsibility of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Internal Security, regulating the state border is the responsibility of the police. Since the government's assessment of the need for assistance from the police was agreed and prepared a proposal for amendments to the Defence Act, which would give the Slovenian Army more powers so that it could perform more effectively on the ground. This proposal, which we have before us today, is a consensus both between the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Justice, the Office of the Government of Law, which we have coordinated, and this has also been confirmed by the Government. I myself have said that on this basis, if this is to be adopted, it will be necessary to decide again here in the National Assembly. And when the military goes into the field with the powers to define them in this law or to be defined in this law and then in the decision, it must be clear what tasks it can perform and what powers it can exercise. Already, the military is on the ground under Article 37, paragraph 4, of the Defence Act and on the basis of a decision adopted by the Government on Saturday, all activities being coordinated by the police. The police prepared a plan and presented it to the General Staff of the Slovenian Army. The General Staff also participated, and the Slovenian Armed Forces is also active in the field. The representative of the Ministry of the Interior is likely to return, so he will be able to present in more detail what the situation is today and I can tell you about the Slovenian Army. So, today, it is said that following this decision adopted by the Government, 77 members of the 72nd Brigade in the Brežice area, 100 members of the 1st Brigade are in preparation for tomorrow, and 40 members are also in Šentil. A helicopter was activated, observational flights were carried out, and 140 civilian police officers are being deployed to Novo Mesto. The Slovenian Army is still working in support, logistically, of civil protection activities. Today 111 members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, 12 vehicles were involved, 2 thousand 290 meals were distributed, 800 kilograms of bread, tea, water, etc., and all activities are carried out for tomorrow, both for cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior and for support of the Civil Protection Staff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u48	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This situation is clearly heading in the direction of somehow criticising the government. No one is convicted, but it seems to me quite symptomatic, when they are some, I will tell this extraordinary situation, whether they are extraordinary within the meaning of the Constitution or when it comes to, I don't know, a natural disaster, then the current government is being criticised if it didn't anticipate everything and couldn't do everything that it was supposed to do. We've already put one wave of fugitives through. I already gave all the compliments to the police at the time. For I come from Brežice, where we are particularly at a blow as a congregation of borders on this issue. And this time we are faced with a significantly larger wave, we have witnessed literally a convoy of people coming from the border to the beach police station. But some conclusion of the citizens and all the people who watched this happening was that it was still under police control. And last but not least, there are many praises for the work of the police, civil protection, humanitarian organisations and the like, which means that things are still manageable, there are still no accidents in the sense that any way citizens, other citizens, police officers will be harmed. There have been several beatings within these groups themselves, but this is to some extent understandable. It's about tired people. These are people of different nationalities who obviously have some kind of dispute. I'm a hard judge of character. But it's all kind of understandable. Last but not least, if we look at just a sports event where a huge number of people appear, of course there is an increased risk of such accidents. What is essential today, however, is that, on the one hand, we praise the work of the police, also the army, after the new – I was at the Brežice police station yesterday, we had the opportunity to see military police, military vehicles – and on the other hand, the government is being criticised. Last but not least, look, the work of the police is directed by the Ministry of the Interior, says the political authorities, including the Government, and cannot be separated on one side of the police department and on the other side of the government. So, if the police and the military are working, and the civil protection is good for the rest of us in the field, it's also a reflection of the government's work. On the other hand, we need to know that we are facing a large number of migrants and that we are facing a situation where our neighbours Croatia is actually delivering them to the border uncontrollably. I got direct information from the cops. I've been told they're being dropped off the buses at the last toll station before the border crossing, and they're walking them across the border. Then they drive them to smaller border crossings. In short, through all possible routes towards Slovenia, which means that the matter is entirely justified somehow outside of control or outside the predictable framework. Beyond those frameworks that one EU member can foresee from another Member State. Last but not least, this was not the case in the first wave, so Slovenia is likely to expect that at least in this wave of information it will be able to know where many people are coming from. Today, in this criticism, we have heard, "We knew this a long time ago, we have proposed this law" so that it can be accepted no longer. Of course that's not true. You, I don't know, two months ago you proposed that resolution on totalitarianism again, the third time since 1945, it's a matter of not saying otherwise, but of course you didn't propose a law on defence. So this reference is completely depressed today. As far as the fence is concerned, I heard a colleague of Gorenak. He said, "We should join the Visegrad Group, set up this fence." Look, it's not that simple. I told you, I come from a border congregation, we have a border through one inn. If you're sitting at one table, you're in one country, if you're in another, you're in another. We've got streams, border rivers, and that's not the kind of thing that goes off overnight. Finally, Croatia did not do so either. In particular, if I mention this Multi-Grace Group; some of the countries in this group have once signed a statement in history on solving the problem in Iraq as well, and see how this is now resolved. It is not the most fortunate, so such actions must be taken into account. Perhaps these countries are looking at things a little bit from their perspective, but we are a transit country and we will have to rely on ourselves most, perhaps less on other countries. In short, expected criticism. But I'm glad you'll support this marriage. I think military assistance is needed in the field. But we need to know she's not all-powerful. Not to prevent the arrival of refugees, nor to the Hungarian border. There will still be open transport routes and if the neighbouring country decides to send a train full of refugees to a neighbouring country, it is said that this transport will not be prevented. Issues will have to be resolved at source, but of course this is also an appeal and an invitation from the international community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak was misunderstood. Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u50	Yes, I was mentioned and misunderstood.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u51	Then there's no replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u52	I repeat to Mr Zorčič and, at the same time, I would like to draw the attention of the leader of the Group of Members to the following. You need our voice, not yours. And please stop this nonsense in your task force. Stop people who light fires at a time when this country needs peace. Mr. Zorčič, I have proposed three amendments to the law: 1. 9, 17. 9 and 23. 9. You laughed, you grinned, you're irresponsible, you're irresponsible, and you have no right to deny us what we're proposing. You have no right. And don't talk nonsense, it's not fair, it's not right. Despite your attack on the SDS Group, we will not deviate from our position to uphold the law. We will support it in the interests of the safety of our citizens and we will bear the blows under the belt that your Member has given us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Hanžek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Vice President. In the United Left, as soon as we received this bill, we asked the former retired judge, mag. Matveža Kristak to tell us what he thinks from his point of view about this bill. I would read here two parts of his letter: "The present fourth paragraph of Article 37 ZOB is, in my opinion, very controversial, only slightly less than the novels currently envisaged. Controversy since it is already possible for the military to cooperate with the police in the wider protection of the state border within the state territory, with members of the Slovenian Armed Forces not having police powers. According to Article 124 of the Constitution, the constitutional function of the defence of the State and thus of the Slovenian Armed Forces is to defend the inviolability and integrity of the State territory. This certainly means defending the state territory from an external attacker who would like these two values — inviolability and integrity — to endanger, and this certainly does not mean protecting the state border against illegal crossing by individuals, in this case refugees. The latter is something completely different and under the authority of the police, not the military. The controversy of this provision has only been reduced slightly by the provision that members of the Slovenian Armed Forces would not have had police powers to do so. But this would only be possible if the role of the army in this, as in Germany, was limited to logistical support. As soon as the law has laid down more than that, i.e. cooperation with the police in its tasks, it is clear that cooperation with the police in carrying out police tasks without police powers is probably not possible in practice. The current novelty is intended to partially remove this restriction and, in part, with vague formulations. So for me, the constitutional judgment on this issue is very simple. Neither the current arrangements nor the less proposed novelties for a serious assessment of its compliance with the Constitution can stop." And part two, this part is about constitutionality. "That the country alone with the police of such a multitude of refugees cannot control it, of course everyone is clear. Under all the emergency situations that have arisen in at least the European Union, another question should be asked. Even if the Green Border State could manage the police in such a way that it could successfully prevent illegal crossings of refugees across the border, would such pushing of refugees back to Croatia be in line with the humanitarian, legally prescribed norms of Slovenia and the European Union and asylum law? In such emergency situations, in my view, Slovenia and other European Union countries should give priority to humanitarian law standards and do everything they can to reduce and not increase the suffering of refugees already on their way to the EU. If the prescribed administrative procedures were to be abandoned for the normal situation in this objective, I think it would be not only legally permissible, but even legally necessary to abandon these procedures if this would reduce the time of detention of refugees in Slovenia and thus release the capacity." I'm not going to comment on the first part. Mag. Matevž Krivic, as you have seen, opposes the current regime, even to me it is very much Pač, we have always said that the army must be in barracks, but now we are increasingly putting it on the streets, not to have anything against the military, but to repeat it, I do not believe and trust the politicians, and with this change of law, politics will be given broad powers whenever it brings an emergency. [[…]] As has already been said, we do not know when such a situation is, there can be demonstrations and everything else. Part two — we forget through, we talk through security. Look, a few thousand people went through, and there were no special police security issues. I've been looking at some data the last time. In the United States two years ago, an average of 7 people were killed in terrorist attacks three years ago, and 37,000 were killed and killed. And they're dealing with entire ministries with seven victims of terrorism, and 37,000 people who kill them, that's the normal part. Basically, the countries are always busy, and so do I, with a security problem on the edge, where there's almost nothing. We fight here, we send the army to the border, as if they were coming here, I don't know what horde of armed invaders of Slovenian territory. I'm sorry, as you can see, they go through peacefully, as a person may even wonder that after months and months of suffering on ships, sleeping God knows where, in fact, they survive in this way. I've listened to disgust before because they've soiled something; what you can expect from a man who's been lying on the ground for three months, sick, and then put thousands of people in a place where there's 200 people, like they're getting dirty. Not nearly as barbaric as the West, but with us who are members of NATO, who has ruined their entire countries, cities, roads, and hospitals and basic schools. Last week, no one in this National Assembly and not even in this country protested when they bombed a hospital of doctors without borders who called and begged, "Stop bombing the hospital." And they bombed. No one condemns such barbarism in our country, but everyone here has been dealing with some poor people who need help all day. Not once have I heard, except for a small excuse, what aid we are going to give to these people, but we're only talking through how we're going to prevent crime, crime, I don't know what else, and we're dealing with the police. Did anyone here ask how many doctors they need at the border, how many nurses, how many of these and whatnot?? I'm literally ashamed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The word has Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Hanžek has just finished and that we should stay up to date in what he said. With regard to the assistance of doctors and medical personnel in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we highlighted this and reminded the Government of this problem. So it would be a good thing that sometimes we read some magnetograms, because then it'll be clear that someone was talking about it. And one more thing. Today there is one, I would say, special situation; some call it an emergency, some special security situation, however. [[…]] But the fact is, the situation is difficult, and it would be good if we didn't pour oil on the fire. But if you are quoting, Mr. Hanžek, Mr. Krivica, the former Constitutional Judge, why didn't you take his opinion when you were taking the mandate of Janez Janša? Today, when it comes to this, you quote him. But I don't think today is a good time for such a debate, and it's only right that we have the same vats and then we quote the same former constitutional judges, and not just when it comes to us. Now, it's true, it's 10:46, it's practically midnight, but a respected coalition, the government has already given up on most, good morning. Good morning, everyone! I will now tell you why; first, I am truly sorry, especially for citizens and citizens, that most of the government was sitting here at the opening time, that it had passed the photo deadline for you to carry out the pier and then left the premises of the National Assembly. Where's the Prime Minister, I ask? Today we are amending the Defence Act and in its introduction we write that this is somehow required by the security situation. So we're in a difficult security situation. But the Prime Minister isn't here. Unresponsible. Today, we have talked a lot about the so - called amendment or the addition of Article 37a. There was much to be said on the committee itself, but this time we were not heard. Of course, in the Slovenian Democratic Party we will support this change of law, but, once again, would you not consider supporting our amendment? This is exactly what we all want to do together to help Slovenian police officers who are already burning up at the border. This is not another statement by the Slovenian Democratic Party, it is not some kind of inflatability that you always tell us, but these are statements by your representatives of the government, as the director of the police has said. Now, let me just remind you of the pace this government has and why good morning. Today we heard from the President of the Government, "The government is stepping up." At the end of August, we were sitting at a board meeting, you know what we were listening to? Some contingent plan that talked about having three stages, phase one, two and three, that the third phase was not so yet, and that third phase was talking about the number 500 refugees. At that time, some of us warned that much more needed to be done, that these stages were already pasturage. Some laughed, others said that we were creating an emergency, and others said that it was not appropriate, for this could already be a hate speech. When someone just mentioned that Hungary is building a fence, there are others almost there at the meeting, I will not say anything, but at least what we would expect to react responsibly. At that time, we were faced with the views of the government, or representatives of the government, who were present at the time, that everything was going well, coordinated, that everything was fine and right, and that they were very good in cooperation with local communities. Today, for a month and a half, we received a proposal for amendments to the Defence Act at the table, and we warned you that it would be too late. We warned you it would be too late! And let me remind you now — have we already asked for international assistance, to help the police at the border? We didn't. Today we're listening to the Prime Minister to do this tomorrow. Now, let me just tell you what the Commander-in-Chief of the Slovenian Armed Forces said today at the meeting or in Brussels, this is the President of the State. Slovenia should request assistance, and if so requested in due time, the deployment of the Slovenian Armed Forces would probably not be necessary or would be sufficient time to prepare this phase as properly as possible, in accordance with the fact that we will know exactly what we are accepting and that the powers will be clear. And what do we have today? Since morning, I think we started to discuss the so-called amendment of the law at 4:30 in the morning. This is written down, and I've completed it. We have succeeded or have succeeded in writing this, Your Honor, while we have had to make constant changes at the committee's own meeting, because things have been misplaced, but on your part we are constantly listening to how we do not have one law in the Slovenian Democratic Party that is worthy of other treatment. And when we warned you that they are among the powers that the Slovenian Armed Forces will now have and are important – because they are helping the police at the border – there are also written powers that even the police do not have, but they are not written down that the Slovenian Army should have if we want to successfully cooperate and help the Slovenian police, you simply did not want to hear that and you still do not want to hear it. That's right. You have another chance. You have the opportunity to support the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party. But you know, it saddens me that when I hear from the individual Members the largest coalition party almost as if everything was nice and right, and that we are taking something here to probably accept it, and to make it sound good, I feel truly very bad. In fact, a fellow Member is coming from Brežica Municipality, where the mayor said that the country must move and decide who it will protect. It's the same congregation. I don't know who's sitting now or who's living on another planet. Another mayor, higher up in Styria, said that they had organised themselves, because the state aid in this sense Police are no longer capable of doing so, they must take care of the security of the property themselves. [[…]] Another mayor said he'd ask the country to recover the damage that's coming. Do we even know what's going on in the country? A few minutes ago or a while ago, we heard that the train with the refugees from Jesenic was returning to Ljubljana. That's what we've been alerting you to. And we still haven't been able to ask for international assistance. This should be one of the first basic measures. A respected coalition, the President of the Government, who is probably at home on the couch, I, too, expected a little more from the positions of the largest coalition party. And Mrs. Kustec Lipicer had, excuse me, some sort of protocol speech, I had a feeling that I was at some celebration and that we could actually move in. Nothing. While we were on the committee for several hours, the Minister was alone. Your Honor, where was the government? In short, we in the Slovenian Democratic Party will, of course, support this amendment of the law. We hope that you will also consider the amendment, which somehow specifies the powers or what we really need: that the Slovenian Army effectively helps the Slovenian police at the borders. Of course, today is not the time for politics, today is not the time to pick up some cheap political points. But it's time, maybe more than ever, for us to listen. You know, if, at the time of independence, the then government needed a whole day to take just one such measure, I don't think we would be living in Slovenia alone today. Think about it. Imagine when you reject other proposals when you reject well-intentioned proposals, when you want to take a step forward, together, but of course this does not suit you because it comes from the opposition types. Let's think about it. We only have one country. And when the first victim falls, that's too much. However, I hope that you will take political responsibility all this time, because you have repeatedly promised to do so, and after it has expired differently, of course you have given it up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Hanžek was also misunderstood. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Vice President. I wasn't misunderstood, it was just a misunderstanding. I don't collect the gold of someone I respect that everything he says is right without thinking about it. I'll think about it. Then I agree with some things. Not much. Exactly the same as your client. Your client is a magician. Matveža Krivica took into account when he spoke about your president, but before 15 years she did not take into account him when he warned of the deleted. So we're about the same here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Dr. Dragan Matić has the word. Excuse me, Mr. Tanko, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u60	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. If you're in charge of the session, then you're in charge of the session! But if you're up for giving your word, anyone else can sit there. What Mr Hanžek has afforded is not a replica and there is no misunderstanding and there is no explanation. This is quite a slander because Mr Hanžek, although he was the Ombudsman, does not know that we have tabled both the constitutional law and the changes to the law, and I do not know what else to really resolve the issue of those so-called deleted. But then the coalitions led by Dr. Janez Drnovšek and Anton Rop did not want to accept it. And even when we had a government, we proposed a constitutional law and did not receive coalition support. If Mr Hanžek was the Ombudsman, at least he could know these things because he said he was dealing with these matters. But it is not obvious that there was a door between him and Mr Krivice in the Ombudsman's office at the time, because the Ombudsman had done too little and the Lord could confirm it, since he was then the Ombudsman and he was there when they broke through the door. So I strongly suggest that when you conduct the session, lead, direct the debate, separate well what is the replica and what is left, if it is a replica, and things will go much differently. Above all, I propose that those gentlemen who like to talk about human rights and so-called deleted persons at least look at the history, historical record and practice that existed in this work in the National Assembly. At least we could do that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u61	Mr. Tanko, you'd have a lot of work to do if you wanted to comment on anyone who goes beyond content. So, of course, Dr. Vinko Gorenak did not have a replica in that he was misunderstood, but we did, so we assumed that in fact a person has the right to react if he is affected. Dr. Dragan Matić, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u62	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Nice greeting to the representatives of the government, and as my colleague Dobovšek would say, to all those who accompany this performance, or pardon, this meeting. From all that we see here today, one would get the feeling that the SDS has somehow benefited from the management of this session. He's teaching a little president, I'm a little bit of sage across, he's telling us what we can say, what we can't do, how we can't react to their debates, how much we can't do, and he's telling us that we can't put oil on fire because they're cooperative. Despite all these reminders and I'm not going to tell the threats coming from this side, I can't help but recall an event from 14 hours ago at a three-hour committee meeting that was so idyllic that at first I thought it was a little unrealistic. Mr. Gorenak doesn't hear very well, I'll be closer to the microphone, I see he's in trouble. At that time, Mr Han and Gorenak blinked at each other's shoulders and ensured that there was such a crisis of such proportions that there would not be some cheap accumulation of political points, that the direction should be taken, as it was in 1991, when we had to be coherent and we should not use it here for certain client purposes. All of this here from what we hear from our colleagues in the SDS, I don't know if it's just support in this sense; today there has been a talk about how this government needs to be interpreted, how it has done everything wrong, and how it doesn't understand and doesn't know anything. I think that, of course, we cannot say that this is just some kind of cooperation that would be in the spirit of unity, which, of course, is more than necessary in this situation. What bothers me when I listen to my colleagues from the SDS is a discourse that reminds me of war situations. A man who didn't know the circumstances would think that the south was being invaded by some enemy army, that we were being attacked by an army, that the government wasn't well prepared for an armed conflict, that this army would now occupy our country to take the property of citizens and citizens and enslave the inhabitants of this beautiful sub-Dalpine land. But it's not a war disaster, it's a humanitarian disaster. Let's keep our focus on why it's actually going. Gentlemen of the SDS, take a look at the photographs of who's coming. Thousands and thousands of desperate come, torn people, hungry, barefoot, many who are powerless, children, women. This is a humanitarian disaster of an intercontinental dimension. It's a lot of times from your talk that I hear what an ideal is in a country that's surrounded by a barbed wire, and I'm not going to call it a noun because they warned me that some Members are sensitive if it's called a name. But where is this moral component to surround yourself with wire and say, "you all who run from war, from misery, from lack, from suffering, go wherever you want, you will not go through us." Who, however, has the moral support that as long as the rich country in the north still has open borders and says, "good refugees" to deny them the crossing? Is that what it is, or is it the spirit of this country? Is this what we have advocated in all these 25 years of autonomy, where is the sense of solidarity? I continue to argue that this country must have relatively open limits, as far as Austria and Germany have. And there's something else I'd like to say. In the event of a poor scenario, however, that Mrs Merkl should decide to close the border herself, it should be called not to close the border over Salzburg, and also to the gentlemen in Austria, not to close the border at Karavankah, nor at Šentil, but to close the Schengen border, which is also their border because it is a common border. Because if this scenario does not occur if this rich country in the north renounces this hospitality, which has not yet withdrawn it, then I really do not know what will remain of Europe. The Schengen border is the border that is the common border, and I believe, of course, that we will not only send the police to help, but we will also have to call Frontex and ask for help from the other European Union countries as well. And in this situation, when the Croats have refused to cooperate when the situation has escalated, of course it is necessary to cut down on the assistance of the military, and I believe that these amendments prepared by the Ministry of Defence are appropriate amendments. Although I do not understand why SDS colleagues are so inclined to use only the use of physical force, rods, fasteners and fasteners referred to in Article 73, there are other means, such as water, water or gas. Not exactly where they decided it was appropriate for soldiers, but not the rest. I believe that what is written here, where it says that the powers referred to in the preceding paragraph are exercised under the conditions prescribed for police officers, the Ministry of Defence has prepared this, and I think that this solution is appropriate, because these powers referred to in Article 73 are, however, intended for special authorised persons who are police officers. [[…]] So much for me, and I hope that we will indeed support this change of law in the common interest of our country as you have repeatedly promised today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The replica has Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u64	Thank you very much. With respect for Dr. Matić's doctoral title, I find that he doesn't understand anything and that's why I have to replicate and try to tell him that he's wrong and that, despite being wrong, he'll get our help. We wrote in there police powers, not principles, principles are something else. It's like an archive and Hawaii. As I am speaking, allow me; I have now communicated with three, four police chiefs, I will only take advantage of this time that has been in action on the ground today, and at the same time I would like to inform the interior minister and the chief of police of the following: the police want the immediate engagement of the military. The police want us to give them proper authority. The top of the interior ministry is against, and the top of the police is against. And they wrote this to me, and I end up saying, "I'm talking to the cops right now," that's what one of the bosses says, "they're back from Brežice. This is an emergency. That's it." Now I'm putting down a bad word because I have to be polite. "...this is their metal stones," so to the police, "the bottles filled with stones, they fought with metal rods, some of our police officers were injured. Now let the pacifists in the National Assembly bark at you," it says, "as the military must not have police powers. Tell them to come and stand between us, and they'll see what war is. You'll be able to say that." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Cross the list, sign in. It's 16 registered. The word has Marko Ferruga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Good evening, everyone. Yeah, now the words here are pretty sharp and we're kind of moving away from that sense that we're here for today. I would like first to commend all the boys who are standing in the rain, the police and the police, clearly, including the military and all the other organizations that are trying to channel this huge, huge amount of fugitives somehow, arrange that it is similar, I will say, some orderly matters that can be controlled, and that it can be placed into space. It is clear that we can here on a warm debate and polarize and look now on one side, now on the other, at some extremes to look for and this, but we must take some measures, and immediately, measures that would be effective, effective and true, which would also help the police work in the field that needs it. We have also heard that "help yourself and God will help you" because, given that we are waiting for the European Union, how it will come, it will help, I do not know what it has done, and that we trust in the European Union and in all these institutions; until that happens, time will be clear. We must act now and immediately, and therefore I think that this is also the preparation of this law, I will say, with some haste, and here we can accept constructive criticism from the left and from the right. It's already started, I'll say, running water down our throats, and that's why we're taking it now. But it is important to take this action immediately. What's the point of this marriage? Just a name, say, in this article 37a, says, "Excellent military powers." What does that mean? In an exceptional situation to use an army, but to be used in some limited, structured way. Another matter that is very important: that when the military engages, the police work that we know is the protector of this Schengen border and must be at the border somewhere, so that it can somehow be burdened by all these border matters and can also be replaced by the military. The third issue, which is also very important, is this time-limited component, it is said that this law will not be extended and that it will not go indefinitely, but only during the duration of these events, which we are now in line with, at this moment. The fourth issue, which is very important, is this two-thirds majority in the National Assembly, which is very important to me, in view of the fact that all or most of the parties must agree to this matter. And then we avoid great conspiracy theories, what could anyone do by sending the army into the field? And if we look at the circumstances that are, and what is the situation on the ground, it is necessary to say that this law needs to be supported and I am glad that the previous debates that we had on the committee, because most of the parties, regardless of their provenance and also their aspects and their kind of influenza, have made it known that it will support this. And if I finish, in the final stages, because it's the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u67	I inform you that they have applied for the debate in the following order: Franc Trček, Mr Tillen Christmas, Mr Franz Jurša, Mr Primož Hainz, mag. Alexander Kavčič, Mr Andrej Chuš, mag. Branko Grimes, mag. Lilliana Kozlovich, Mrs Suzanne Lepi Šimenko, Mr Luka Mesec, Mr Danilo Ranc, Mr Matjaž Germany, Mr Marjan Dolinšek, Mrs Anita Koles, Mr Marko Ferluga and Mr Matjaž Han. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. There are times when it's better to think and somehow say less. I've been listening to this debate all day, and somehow I realize that I'm probably the dumbest person in this National Assembly, and I'm even thinking a little bit about getting my term back. Or this debate is not a debate. First quote: "The Defence Act already allows the military to cooperate with the police in protecting the Schengen border, but the government must have the courage to make such a decision." – Ljubica Jelusič, former Minister of Defence, prominent member of SD and probably a larger expert in this area than all of us sitting here. Do you agree or don't you? Before I ever thought I'd be a Member, they asked me a question, my attitude towards Slovenia, my values, up and down, and I said, "I'm a constitutional patriot." I think even work has addressed or subtitled that interview with me. In short, for God's sake, there's a constitution for me above the game. And that's how people in normal countries work, and here I am with Mr. Guilty and with whom I agree. He probably partly holds what Mr Gorenak said to the government, that I, too, will be rude, had no eggs, and now he sends this to the National Assembly. When it's said, "those who burn," a lot of you set fire here today. Fellow Bah, "time to listen", let's listen. Mate Matić said, "this play" was really more of a performance than anything else, and when I hear the word "unity" or "let's all step up together," I've spent my whole life thinking about it, but I think about it. This debate turned out to be — what? That we have legislation that allows the military to go to the field; in fact, the army is already on the ground. Is that right? Yes, it is. Very vague from the whole picture, I've been listening to this all day, it's not clear to the department ministers what and how. Mrs Katičeva said, "a more detailed plan of action will clearly clarify the powers of the Slovenian Army, the tasks, the powers that will be unequivocal", and so on. Maybe the MPs and the MPs in the coalition have some submarital acts, and I don't have them. You're all going to support something, but you don't know what you're going to support! Sorry guys, this is "Hitler situation," sorry! What will you support?Oh, my God! Some vague situation, a situation where there is no coordination. Our key problem today is that people burn out on the fifth day. This marriage won't solve it, you know, the people in this department I was talking to outside in the hallway. We have less than a thousand properly equipped police, we have even less equipped armies capable of doing so. That's our problem. And then today we should discuss whether to include Frontex, whether the police will carry out administrative tasks or not, and someone else will do what the police will basically do, what Luka was talking about, whether we will include a reserve composition of the Slovenian Army coming winter, how we will distribute people's locations, whether it will be scattered, after all, because this is going to be too much of a challenge for some local community, and I could now read my texts, what they wrote to me from Shentilla, finally, how we will finance it, even how we will somehow coordinate it. Dr. Gorenak explained to us what it meant to order the police, but how they would order or order if I quoted you, if it was not clear how the Slovenian army and the police would co-operate. From all this debate today, I've been listening to those five hours, people, that's not clear! You will support a law that is a complete ambiguity. And then the head of the SMC Group will say, "I believe," someone else will say something else. But you know, we're not theologians. The National Assembly is telelogy. We need to think and talk about observations. And in those 10 hours of debate, it turned out to be some kind of scam you're trying to legally enforce, which won't solve the situation on the ground. Maybe we should go out on the field and see what the situation is. This marriage proposal is an elegance; this bill is, in the opinion of not only one constitutional lawyer, a constitutional dispute. Because then we have to change the constitution, too, where it says what the military is doing. Will we have the next session to change the constitution? And now you've been funny around here more or less all day, instead of dealing with the topics I mentioned earlier, and probably the police have us full of suitcases, so I don't use anything from the pubic areas. There has been a lot of talk about violence; violence has so far been relatively small, but through this debate, at least through one part of this debate today, you are almost promoting violence, I cannot say otherwise. The security of people and goods; this is already regulated by the current legislation. And that's how much real I can handle. We should talk about what happens if the boundaries really close. What are we gonna do? I've told you many times, have we asked the Italians what experience they have? Learning from those who have been doing this for five years, and until others have started happening, "oh, it's not in our yard". In short, these things. I don't laugh at this marriage, colleagues and colleagues. [[…]] You growl, I mean, it's up to me to die today, not growl. Now I'd rather be in Shentiel, doing something smart all day. That's not cut. You're going to support something, and you don't really know what you're going to support. Minister, you don't know what you're going to support. They don't know how to coordinate. And people of God, this is the end of the rule of law, goodbye, goodbye, end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Tillen Christmas has the floor. [[advertising from the hall]] I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u70	Thank you for the word after this stormy intro. Good. How am I supposed to start, given the introduction? Which ensures that this is not, as was said, some "Hitler situation" and that we do not go from "theo" to "theo" and finally into the body, which is essential to me, but colleague Ferrug mentioned earlier. In my opinion, we are going to resolve this in such a way that it is not a matter of drastic intervention in extending the powers and mandate of the military in this case or in a broader sense. It is a very limited mandate, it is a limited duration or temporary regime, it is also a high consensus to adopt and extend such measures, which must be achieved. This is a proposal from the Government, which is then sitting here in the National Assembly, and we need to reach a two-thirds majority of those present. All of this is followed by the police, who are also the first to be called, who are trained to deal with police officers. And given how things are currently going on in the field, I also believe that cooperation between the police and the military is good, and that with additional powers it can be even better. The other thing that seems important to me is that we don't have any sense of emergency. It's about controlling a situation that changes from hour to hour. It's a situation, and now it can't all be nice and right, given what we have. There is a large mass of people coming in unpredictable terms, in unpredictable terms, because communication is currently what it is. And it's normal that they're complicated, but it's important that we respond very quickly and that we rescue them as quickly as possible. And this not only in the field – by the way, everyone praised the teams that are there – but also, as we see here, at the level of the Government. Yesterday they sat up to three and a half, today we will also be up to some likely comparable hours, and I think that we are also adding our share of what we need to do to adopt such legislation, so that they can operate normally on the ground and that the Government will be able to have sufficient powers, that we have the whole situation that is not simple, of course under control. Substantially larger countries have already bowed down, made major mistakes, under the pressure of migrants. We have not yet made major mistakes, but it is true that we have not yet had such a large scale or size of refugees. However, we have been able to learn a lot from this practice and I think that this will now be used in practice in advance. So, in my view, it is now crucial that the situation is being monitored, that we respond quickly and carefully to this situation, at all levels. Of course, a great deal of tolerance is needed here, and this will also help us to face this challenge successfully as a country. So the military and the police will have to agree on the military's involvement in managing the situation, with the military's engagement, as previously said, depending solely on the needs and direction of the police. As far as other activities are concerned, this is not the only activity. At the moment, as is evident from the media, it is also asking or working to obtain financial assistance to obtain additional force, to obtain additional police equipment, and we also find that it would be good for us to have significantly more, and on Thursday it will also be here in Slovenia, the Commissioner for Migration and so on. So, things happen on different levels, on different fronts, and things move. So what we're talking about today is one small, real thing, but important, in the whole picture. And now what would be one of my desires in view of the hour, which is currently 11.25 p.m., is that we might succeed in this consensus, which I think has already been somehow achieved – that we should make this move and somehow accept it – that we would have accepted it before midnight, and that on this day we would also gain another day in adopting this legislation and in applying it in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The replica has Mr. Franz Runczek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u72	Short replica, apparently my colleague didn't understand me very well. But what you've been saying, my friend, is very clear that we need an intervention law in which we should solve what I'm talking about. This, whether we accept before midnight or after midnight or sit here for thirty hours, will not change matters in the field and it is also controversial. We are the legislative body, of course we have to adopt laws that also hold and drink water, and I will never support a law that will be able to whenever a police minister remembers that the situation may be a little extreme to drive people out of the street to beat them. And that makes it possible. We've already had this experience in Maribor, maybe you haven't, I'll never support it, even if a party with a gun to my head forced me into it. That's the first thing. Another issue, as I am still saying, is logistics and overcrowding, and we should deal with it, not with this empty debate, which has been going on all day, and you are all experts for all of it, but also for warm water. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Now maybe I'll say something strange to start with. My younger colleagues might laugh, and I'm serious about this. The whole time before my discussion, I was thinking about when and at what time and what I started doing this morning in this National Assembly. And believe it or not, my memory didn't freshen. And I think what we're doing here is our own fault. And I will say quite frankly and frankly, today we are talking about this change not in the general sense of what the article represents and what powers the soldiers, the military, will be given, but we are talking about technical details. Why do we have so many and so many people at the Ministry of Defence, why we have so many and so many people at the Ministry of the Interior who are in some way professional. And we're dealing with the details. All those who listen to us and watch us today do have their own opinions about us. I will also say that we have different opinions and I simply and simply accept this; I think that at the end of this debate we will still step together and we will support this change. I would also like to make a silent major change, but the Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior has told us exactly what is possible and what is not, that for certain powers he must also be qualified. And I agree, without qualified personnel, certain powers simply cannot be given. Individuals really talk a lot, but we are probably aware in the majority that at this point in time and now we need this actual amendment to this Law on Defence. However, we need it in particular in order to help the Slovenian police. Why do we do this easily and simply? If we had enough power in the Ministry of the Interior, we wouldn't do that. I already said on the Defence Committee today that probably this government is not working any coup, because at the final stage the Government is in power and this amendment proposal applies for a certain period. A certain period is also recorded in this article and, in my opinion of this fear, in order for someone to take advantage of the change in this law for some other purpose, it is true at this point, I will say, even impolitely. At this point we have other problems, and not only the problems we have – how we will protect people's assets, the country even in the final phase of the refugee – we must not just talk about it. Of course, there are other points on how we, some have already said, will ensure health safety, and so on and so forth. Yesterday evening was actually the first day when our police in some way began to say that it would be difficult to manage this situation, but there were already 20,000 people in Slovenia. Until then, and I think he's still in control of the situation today, despite the problems he's facing. Now he needs what we've been saying all day, and this is the Slovenian Army. Croatia simply and simply began to drive refugees to the Slovenian border, they withdrew from the arrangements to take refugees through the corridor to their desired goal. They led to the border and showed, "there is a way to Slovenia, and to your preferred destination is the way through Slovenia and beyond". Of course, now the question you've all asked is, how long will Germany be able to actually accept refugees? And the Austrians will do in the final stages what they will do with the Germans. I'm not in any way surprised by the policy which, leading Germany to the refugee problem. At the final stage, we are all monitoring events in and out of the country, and we can see what structure of refugees was coming in the first phase of Slovenia and also of course the neighbouring country, and what structure is coming at this point. It seems that we have not learned from the past when it was in the former South Sea, on that refugee issue, how it should be handled in such a case; Germany seems to be very well managed. There was a discussion that we didn't have information. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is not true, the Ministry of the Interior has a press conference every day, where citizens, Members, Members and others, of course, are normally familiar with the state of affairs on the ground, and this information is, of course, changing from hour to hour. There can never be accurate information about how many people there are in Slovenia right now. There's probably no one who can answer that. At this point in the final stage, I would like to conclude my debate and finally call once again for all colleagues and colleagues, regardless of which political options they belong to, whether they are left or right or central, to support this amendment of the law, because it is easy and simple for Slovenia to do so in some way.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Primož Hainz has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u76	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Government, Madam Minister! Of course, I must say that when we discussed these same problems on September 23rd, in fact, I am in the end, and I am very sorry to say it, to repeat it, I was relatively clear at some point. In fact, at first I argued that we must act humanly in the case of refugees, because the refugees were created, as I would say, because of some particular serious reasons, war, hunger, whatever, at home. That we have in mind that things are being organised at home by the Government, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, that we have humanitarian organisations that have done tremendously much at that stage and that we are ultimately left as a reserve by the military. And we're here today, which is what we're talking about. The debate about whether it's too late or not I can't imagine how people would understand if they said to me on September 23, "it's going to be an offensive, it's going to be thousands at borders, fear and trembling." [[…]] Indeed, the matter must in some way mature in us and mature especially in humans, for it would certainly create a certain panic. No one in Europe thought that way at the time. Even in Europe, where we continue to imitate ourselves, they do not have the right recipe, what and how today. The EU has fully knelt down at this point. Only Angela Merkel, of course, goes to Turkey and then offers funding, which is, of course, correct, and, of course, offers a shortcut to the EU, because this is the only thing that we can give to this country, or in return, to stop this move from Turkey from moving on towards the EU. Nor do I imagine what some of you have said today that we should open the public debate at this point. How, for example, would we open a public debate about this law and go to the field? I can't imagine. This would be kind of, I can say, a panic which, of course, is a policy in this way must not be created. Because I'm still sure everything that's going on today isn't so bad. Of course, the numbers are slightly larger or too large, of course we don't manage them the way we wanted them to, but, on the other hand, we do see that some order has occurred or things are being regulated. And if the police are assessing that they need help from the military, of course, the military needs it now – because some have said that soldiers would not then answer criminally – I hope it is minimal. Of course, the powers they will receive are valid, we have said, with time constraints and only apply to this problem of happening in this migrant story, which is, of course, tragic and must be overcome in some way. But of course I'm personally against the fence that some of you are talking about. Of course, I am in favour of the fact that the military is simply helping the police to regulate, channelize, and also logistical aid and so on, to some extent or to a large extent, it is already going on. That's why I'm finally -- I know the theory that the military is in charge of protecting the country outside, the police are in charge of making order at home, but no matter what -- in the end, of course, I'm going to unfortunately define myself as a marriage proposal, because I think we need it. But as for Croat neighbours, of course, the matter is a little complicated. It's complicated because people at the border understand and marry and move, have property on one side and on the other, but on the other hand, as far as the tops of Croatian politics are concerned, I don't think they should be naive. And I won't go into any longer history, but at least 25 years ago for sure; we had an agreement between the two defence ministers, we said, when the Yugoslav army attacks, we will organise a defence together. What did Tudjman do? He replaced the Minister of Defense and, of course, it was nothing. If no one has previously understood this in history, then at least this should be the last so that we should not be very naive to it, we should not have to have these neighbours, especially possibly – although I think this is not the only reason – in the time before the elections, of course, they are even more embarrassed and even doing things that are beyond reason. [[…]] Above all, I don't think you're naive on our side. If we put too much hope in this, this naivety must not prevail. But of course, I hope that Europe will succeed in some way in agreeing on a joint action and, of course, that then our concrete conclusions will not have the same effect as they did. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Andrey Chus has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. Good evening to all government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I would like to say what many colleagues and colleagues have pointed out during today's debate, namely that we have been discussing this issue and the issue of the migration and, of course, the refugee crisis for a long time. True, we have been talking about this for a really long time, and we have devoted a lot of time to this question. But where are the results? We must say that just one part of Parliament, of course, with the emphasis on the coalition, said that everything was under control, put its head in the sand and thought that everything was great. There has been what many have foretold, and it is time for something to be done. I think it's been a while, and that's why I'm welcoming today's debate. I'd like to say myself, I didn't get a call before because I didn't have a chance, because, of course, I haven't talked about giving a replica yet. That is, I know that Mr Matić has a problem with not becoming a minister of culture, but perhaps within the Government we could consider setting up a clearing facility with the Slovenian Democratic Party. In fact, every fifth word he mentions is SDS. So maybe one proposal, which we've been listening to for a year, is just the same three sentences over and over again, and it would be nice if we added a little something. If I'm coming out of my environment, then Ptuj with the surroundings I just got information about what's going on again in Zavrč, Circulanah, in Markovci. [[…]] Of course it's gonna have to be stormed. I am sure that the country has not done enough to date to talk about respect for existing legislation when we are talking about protecting the Schengen border, when we are also talking about protecting its own borders and, of course, security in the country. The country must ensure that citizens and citizens have a safe and secure life. Unfortunately, at least in my parts we can't and we're no longer witnesses. And there's nothing to be done. The only thing we can say is to thank the police and the police and, of course, the Slovenian military, who are working according to their own capabilities and are, of course, overly burdened. I would like to go through the chronology of the beginning of this migrant refugee crisis, which we have read in the media. I saw this on the social network by Mr Ših. First title: Slovenia prepared for Orban's manoeuvres. Second address, a few days later, by the President of the Government: We are ready for a possible increase in the number of refugees. Third address, including a few days after this: Cerar Miri, that Slovenia is ready for more refugees. Fourth address: Györkös Žnidar: Refugees coming to Slovenia will be screened for safety. Then again a few days pass and again a statement by the President of the Government: The movement of refugees is difficult to stop, we can only control it. What's going on today, yesterday, this weekend? The arrival of migrants this morning exceeded all manageable capabilities — reports Cerar’s government. And let's stop fighting here, throw sand in our eyes, but let's do something. I am also in favour of doing something, and that is why I will also support the proposal for a law, regardless of how the Government feels about our amendment. You know, it can be critical, I could now scream at all the weights as an opposition Member, but I would like to remind you that we discussed the issue of this crisis, which we were in, a year ago, on the initiative of our parliamentary group, when we first proposed the new Penal Code. At that time, I myself advocated the proposal for a law that we tabled in the first reading, and some of the members of the ruling coalition marked me if I was at home on earth or came with Mars to create some confusion between the population, to create a panic So we saw what happened; one year we talked about it in Parliament, and no one believed it, or I didn't know what was in the heads of ministers and, of course, colleagues and colleagues. [[…]] But it's time we took action to do something. We have also pointed out the lack of action by the State, we have made concrete proposals in Parliament, and our President has pointed to this in the National Security Council, and if we were to implement legislation, safeguards and prepare ourselves for what we have today, I am sure that the situation in the country would be different. You can come to my ends, people are scared there, they don't know what's coming to them tomorrow, they just feel threatened. Such humanitarian and security aspects must be taken into account. I believe that we have talked too little about the security aspect, especially because it has not been done as the Government has said that we will, of course, separate refugees from migrants, so those who really need help from those who do not flee from war zones and endangered areas, and this has not been done. The security and intelligence services themselves point out that a certain percentage of individuals who are, of course, in these groups of migrants and refugees have no fair intentions, and this represents a major security threat not only in our country, but in the whole European Union. I must also say that I am disappointed at today's meeting of the Defence Committee when I somehow saw that the coalition is not really united and that it is being hunted. I am also sure, as Dr. Gorenak has already said, if someone came and hit a table,'so and so we must do', this law would probably have been passed a few hours ago in the National Assembly and of course those who are sick of sitting at these hours in the National Assembly could go home. At the end of the debate, I would also like to point out that we are not asking ourselves enough about what will happen if the border is closed by Austria and Germany; will we endure this I will not say pressure, but this burden, this much-needed amount of work, maintenance, care? I'm sure we can't do that. The amendment that we have tabled is, of course, mainly about the powers and powers that we will give to members of the Slovenian Army. Now we can't send soldiers out there to expose ourselves, but they won't have any tools or opportunities to do anything. This seems inappropriate to me, but in terms of both the formal basis and the practice, I would suggest that we accept this amendment. You've seen it yourself, there's been a breach in Shentyl, physical violence, and unfortunately it's all happening all over the place. The fact is that the government and the competent ministries have failed the exam, but I am still sure that we must step together in this area, support this law and respond more urgently to what is going on in the future, but not push our heads into the sand, but we hope that nothing will happen. I have previously shown a chronological development over the past year until today, when our representatives of the government and representatives of members of the coalition said that everything was fine. I could be critical, but at the end of the day, I'll just say that the only thing I can do is to invite you to Zavrè, Circulán or Markovec to come help the local population or to clean up volunteers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u80	Thanks again for saying that. I had hoped that this debate was, however, the first step in starting to talk seriously about these matters, but earlier Mr Matić from SMC made sure that some such words were really needed to be answered, even because of the public accompanying us today. First of all, why is this marriage even adopted? I claim the same as my colleague from the commission I am leading for the supervision of security and intelligence services, who said he quoted former Minister Jelusic as saying that there would be no need for a change of law at all. That's right. Legally speaking, that's exactly the way it is. If, of course, the Government accepted all necessary and assumed responsibility for this. But of course, the government then came here nicely today and this Parliament is at this moment, I will be a little graphic, I will take over the function of the laurel in which the government came to Pilate's wash of its hands, because it did not prepare things in time, nor by any means as it should have been. That's all we're taking today. What's the big deal? The problem is that from the start, the security challenge we face has been greatly underestimated. That's what we've been alerting the committee to, we've been alerting the press, I've been talking about, everything that's going on today, I've been predicting to the last line, and not saying that someone didn't know. This is what this Parliament was talking about a month ago. Everything was told. However, something else was said when a formerly appointed colleague from SMC used the term "poor refugees". But come on, do you happen to know what's going on in Germany? Migrants – it turns out that between refugees, maybe 10% or less – are causing violence; of the 450 volunteers who worked voluntarily in Bavaria in their spare time and at their own expense, more than 300 have experienced a severe physical attack and then have simply stopped working. Interesting information, isn't it? People helped them, for free, for help, 300 of them had a worse physical attack, if you don't know it. Well, a similar fate was experienced today by our police officers and those who helped them down at the border crossing. Downstairs was a lot worse than they say. Earlier, Dr. Gorenak had read how this was done in practice: broken bottles, rocks, steel bars, and the like. This is something that you're an ordinary citizen, and I don't think most of you can even represent because they don't know what they're dealing with. These are people who have grown up in completely different situations, in a completely different environment. And you can't imagine them being poor because they're not. According to official information, I last time deliberately asked the director of the Owl in the open part of the session if anyone was sitting on the ears, how about the finances of migrants. [[…]] And what turned out to be? You also have this posted on the Internet so that no one will say it's classified. The average migrant receives 5,000 euros of allowance to start up in Europe, pays him 10,000 euros per trip, because there are so much about travel costs when it comes to the goal, and is still waiting for another 5,000 to 15,000 euros, either in his account or in one of the radical societies of Sunite Muslims. So much for how poor they are. And of course it's no wonder that then the iPhones are taking pictures and wearing clothes that we can't even wear here in this House, probably most of them don't, afford. It's a real state. Some, by the way, have been caught carrying with them, believe it or not, more than EUR 300,000 in cash; now show me one in Slovenia that can carry just as little with it EUR 300,000. And it wasn't just one case, a few of them. And here's the problem, because no marriage for these people anymore. We have to stick with them, other countries, other citizens of the European Union have to stick to them, but now something has happened in Europe, and I don't know if everyone has had a bit of a "snag" and suddenly no law is in force. You've been talking about the Schengen all night; the Schengen is dead! Schengen has not been in force for one year. The moment Greece and Italy ceased to implement the Schengen, the Schengen area was dead. And if you want, we are violating the vehement Schengen, at this point – what was the second thing that happened in these hours now in Slovenia? And Croatia and, of course, everyone else, but they are not yet formally members of the Schengen area, and we are. That's an awkward thing to say, isn't it? And the problem we're facing is multilayered. If you read what is then found in Germany, it is that those who may have thought that this could be integrated – only 10%, this is an official assessment of their Minister of Labour, is even compatible with their labour market, everything else will, of course, be social, lasting. Even more interesting information is from health care, if you don't know it, and it's not even said that a very large percentage of people are infected with AIDS, that they have tuberculosis, that they have hepatitis, that there was even a case of a disease that Europe has not seen in a hundred years, that's from Austria, that maybe even someone has followed it, that's extremely contagious lesion. And all of this just goes straight across the border, everything else is subject to limitations. Can you imagine the safety and health risks, gentlemen, is that it? And someone's responsible. That's why I said it before, and sooner or later, it's gonna explode and vomit is already abroad. Why do you think Germany's policy turned to its head in just a few weeks? Because they're under pressure from their public and professions. Because the profession warns about what I said in vain here in the last few months, and at the meetings, we had a meeting of the National Assembly, where obviously no one really took anything or everyone thought, because it would go right past us. Yeah, well, it's not that it's the situation, because we do have a strategic position here in the space we're in, but in this case, that's the problem. And the bad consolation is that our only comparative advantage is that we have such a lousy government, in the last period all left-wings, that all refugees want out. Then they ask one, "So Slovenia is so beautiful, will you stay here?"and he says, "run, Marx, Lenin, goodbye, go to hell," that was about the reaction. That a fugitive must come to the Slovenes to lighten their minds a little, to start thinking about what time it is. It's a real state. But if you make it harder, don't count on anyone not to say anything back. What is crucial is that I did not mention these stories for free as to safety and how it is with health risks, because it specifically refers to someone, ladies and gentlemen. This is about those guys who are already defending this country with their lives, these are the cops and the military and the rest of them when they're helping them. Now you'll send an army there. And, if you send it, please, on their behalf, let them at least give them these powers, as we suggest, that they can at least effectively defend themselves and that they can effectively defend you, because they will be directly exposed to all of what I am talking about. And they don't go down because it would make them happy, they don't go down for money to cash in, but they go to defend the security of all of you here and all of the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and indirectly, if you want, the whole of Europe. Because we're a Schengen state. And so give them those powers, as we suggest. It is the security of you, the security of them and the safety of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and therefore it is necessary to act reasonably and decisively and, of course, also legally correct.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Lilliana Kozlovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u82	Thank you, Madam President, for your words, a nice greeting to the representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! By no means can we say that the situation is such that there is absolutely nothing wrong, as you say, that we keep saying that we are pressing our heads into the sand, that we are sitting in the chairs, and that we are not worried at all. Not so, we are extremely concerned, but until now our government has ensured by the measures it has taken to ensure that we are in control of the situation. As soon as we adopted or when the contingent plan was adopted, it simply did not want to be understood that it was a stage of expansion, just as the situations were being scaled up so that measures were being stepped up. But it's still essential that we also talk about humanitarianism. We can't forget that. Of course, we are also talking about security at the same time, and we are not underestimating it, in any way, whether in terms of safety of life, property, health or any other security, let it be for the migrants themselves or for our officers or for our people. And what seems important to me is perhaps just another title or expression; it is not an extraordinary situation in the sense that it is in front of us, as it has now been said, how these people are, but it is not such a situation, we can understand it as a natural disaster, as some tsunami that has happened and is really a question of whether you can always control it. [[…]] But certainly the government is working on this and is gradually taking these measures, and one of these gradual measures was that it activated the army. What Dr. Jelušič said is true, the basis of the law is to use the army, and the army is already on the ground and helps with the legal powers it has with the police. It is only border guarding and also equalising measures that the police, including by means of the military and, of course, under a strict plan that has been and has already existed, implements, and is that assistance, because we are aware that the police are also limited in capacity. And we're not late for action. This measure, which we are taking today, does not need to be in force today or tomorrow, there is no need to use physical force, there is no need to do so and there is no need to create a sense of emergency. It's just as obvious that we don't know how we're going to proceed. But the President of the Government said earlier that we have the assurance of the European Union or the competent institutions that we will have both human resources and financial assistance. Of course, it was said that this will be specifically specified tomorrow. It means that we keep thinking about having a vision of what to do in this case. As for the amendment you are proposing in the SDS, I understand that you want it to be more detailed or you think it is clearer. Earlier, the Secretary of State had said that there were certain powers to be exercised by the military and to exercise them themselves, but, of course, as the Minister had said, only on the basis of a strict plan to be drawn up by the police. It is a matter of additional help, for the military is already helping, and what they would give is additional help. But to me, of course, it is questionable — an indent that speaks of the use of coercive means — that is, police officers who use coercive means are trained to do so, and in the military, can the Minister say whether they are equally qualified or certified to use this force? But what I am pleased with, of course, is that all of us, although we use different rhetoric, are aware that further measures are necessary and that we will jointly support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Well, hello, everyone here! Now I am going to start by referring to the words of the President of the Government, that we must protect our people and our assets. I very much agree with this statement, I very much agree, but I am not sure if all those in the coalition agree. And now you will say again that another one is going in the direction of criticising the government and what your fellow Member has already said. No, it's not about criticizing the government. It is simply that we cannot compare the situation of this migrant crisis with some natural disasters, what you are doing. Natural disasters are truly unpredictable, we cannot predict them in advance. But what happens to migrants has been very well known for months. And today you can tell what happens in one week, what happens in two weeks. You know how the current runs and how many of them ever cross the border. So here I'm really wondering if you're fast enough to act. Personally, I don't think you did. Now I don't want it to be that way; now somehow winter is approaching, but always our first snowing services, despite the fact that weathermen are already predicting it a few days in advance, but it looks something like that. I am not talking about when we should have a meeting on September 23, when we had to send an army to the border here at the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. [[…]] However, it was known that the first wave of migrants was at that time, and that the second wave was approaching. It did not know exactly when, how the flow would be diverted, and what could be done at that time. Legislation on what we are discussing here in the middle of the night could already be adopted. Perhaps a little more specific legislation, since we would not have wondered whether it was appropriate or not today or yesterday, and not only would it take so long to meet the parent’s working body. We could actually do that, but you didn't. That's why I'm guessing you're not fast enough. I must honestly say that I do not know what the current situation is in Slovenia. I don't know how many migrants are in Slovenia right now, but I don't know how many refugees are. And I'd be interested in that information. We hear so many of them coming around. The media is talking, I don't know, about illegal border crossings. That means when they cross the green border. But when they go "ka" across the border it's obvious, I don't know, a legal passage. No, it's not a legal transition. And I don't know how many are actually in the territory of the Republic right now. And I would ask the government representatives if they could, I don't know, answer that question because I believe [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] Eight thousand. Are you sure that's true? Not long ago. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Then explain directly to the media, because, as far as the media is concerned, about 20,000 entered the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and about 5,000 entered Austria. That's what the circus here meant. 15 grand. So I would really ask for specific numbers. There was a reference to asylum law for refugees, but once again we have to separate migrants and refugees. Refugees are at risk in their country of origin. Everyone else is migrants and most economic migrants. I also want to know what the relationship is. How many refugees do we actually have, how many migrants we have? Humanitarianism, yes, absolutely. Look, Slovenians, I believe we're valid after we're humanitarian. That we really always help others. But again, who deserves help here, refugees or migrants? And it should also be asked how many Slovenian citizens need help and this humanitarianism? When they may be misdemeanored, they take away the absolutely catastrophic things that some of those on the road might be taking away. I come from the Haloz area, there's been a repeat of the story; at three o'clock in the morning, Croats get near the green border, and I don't know how many buses migrants. Of course, they're going across the border illegally and they're going on foot towards Ptuj. Today, around 10:00 p.m., the same thing happens. They're going over the municipality of Circulana and then probably, I don't know, they were past, they're already, I don't know, near the Markovs. [[Incomprehensible]] Same story, again unannounced transport to the vicinity of our border. I wonder if this communication is still going on. But by the middle of the day, it was known that a large group was located somewhere near Varazdin, and people were already talking about it, that it was probably the same today. So I don't know, I really wonder if you're as ready as you say you are here. Right now, we're not in a situation where we can, I don't know, study something, but we're taking time. It's not like that. Today we need to act and we need to act very decisively, and what I am missing is in fact a little more determination in this government. And I don't want to be critical, but everything from the President of the Government to the Minister. Minister of the Interior, the media reported yesterday that she said something decisively. When you listen to her statement, I don't know, and I didn't really see anything decisive in that statement. But in this place it may be necessary to be a little more determined. And I really don't know, I wonder what it's like to protect the Schengen border. And let's ask ourselves a little bit, how do people feel about what is actually living on this southern border of ours? Many of you are far from that. But at least try to imagine how they feel. Some fear, others fear not, some are uncomfortable, but, however, first and foremost, the safety of our citizens must be. And that's what we all expect from you here. Why did we make this amendment? Simply because we believe and not least, as my colleague has said, the police themselves want the military to have similar powers so that they can act accordingly. That's why I'm counting, no matter what your prognosis of supporting this amendment is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Luka Moon has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. I think it's my last call today. How are such cases handled? I said before that it is always done in cases of exceptional situations by adopting some kind of intervention law. When we had our stomachs, we passed an intervention law on the acorn, when we had the floods of the intervention law on floods, when we had the last refugee crisis in 1997, we passed an intervention law on the provision of protection, something like that. What was the content of these intervention laws? The content of these intervention laws was exactly what we should address as a legislative body, it says, to look at the whole situation, to assess where the holes and the legal things that are wrong or why things do not spin as they should cover. But the government didn't do it, even though it had plenty of time, but now that apparently few things have slipped away from her hands, it has accepted or brought to our table some additional article of the Covered Defence Act, which is incredibly hollow. I admit that I have seen a lot of bad laws in this term, but today is probably the most inappropriate of all. It appears that he was prepared in one night, totally inconceivable, and that those responsible for him have no answer to any relevant question. So they can't define the concepts they use – what is the broader protection of borders, what security conditions are – they can't tell what kind of coercive means and what powers the military is supposed to have now after the new, no matter how the control takes place, no one will lead the whole process, no matter how it is possible that we actually have a rule that is already in force before the law was passed. If I tell you what the media report is; the media report, and you can't deny that the Slovenian Army was involved in police activities yesterday, which was previously only included in logistics, but the soldiers do not have police powers and only help the police carry out their tasks. Now the question is: has this happened, is it said, that we came from logistics to engage in police activities on the basis of the existing law? So, is it true that the theory of Ljubica Jelusič that this law that we have before us today is not necessary at all, is it in fact a prejudication that today's law will be passed and you have begun to apply the rule one day earlier? That's the first question. If the first theory, the theory of Ljubice Jelusič, that this marriage is not necessary at all, then probably this is what I've been doing for 16 hours now and I've been trying to keep track of what's going on around me. [[…]] I am increasingly inclined to hold on to the theory of Ljubice Jelusič, and if this theory holds, then this today is nothing more than that the government at some point saw that some impression would have to make, it is said, to turn out in some way to be state-favoured now in the whole situation, and therefore did not prepare an intervention law or anything like that or any operational measures that would improve the work on the ground, but staged an all-day show because it actually started with a government meeting that ended at a spectacular half-hour in the morning, but continued today with a 16-hour debate in the National Assembly, where it was supposed to be the result of all that we had reached consensus that we had all come together, that we all fell apart creatively. Unfortunately, however, colleagues and colleagues in the United Left are under such a poorly prepared law that we do not know what the consequences will be, not in the short term or in the long term, nor what this means as regards the division of powers between the police and the military, we simply cannot sign. And even if that was the intention of anyone in the government or in the coalition, I don't know who to look at, then we need to find out that your right opposition obviously stole the show and took the water to its mill. So if my theory holds up, then I hope you learn something from it, but you know that for yourself. However, the law is also directly dangerous because it is constitutionally controversial. Look, we haven't even got an answer about the enforcement of this law yet. 91st Article of the Constitution is clear: the President of the Republic may declare the law 8th day after its adoption. At that time, the Council of State has the right to veto, and citizens and citizens have the right to a referendum. If I understand the President of the Government correctly, this law is due to enter into force tomorrow, and tomorrow – please, today, I apologize, we were already in the middle of midnight – the police powers also belonged to the military. Now I'm wondering here, in what way are you essentially going to adopt a potentially unconstitutional law and enforce it past the constitution or past the constitutional deadline? And here I point out that if this turns out to be the case, and if someone here initiates a constitutional procedure, there may also be a reason for the President's impeachment. So it may have seemed to someone yesterday night a brilliant pianist move to adopt such a law, but it turns out that: for the first time, you have prepared an extremely hollow, impeccable law, for which you have no answers to the key question, the second time that the pyrus failed because someone stole it from you, and the third time that you can shoot yourself with the adoption of this law. This would be my last intervention for today, and I hope you'll reconsider.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u87	Thank you very much. He has a word, Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u88	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Of course, I did not imagine that at such an hour in Parliament I would ever debate, but, I am elected, here I represent my constituents, I will try to express in a few words some of my views and, of course, to the benefit of all of us, and perhaps add a thought or a way of thinking that would shorten our debates so that we might be ever more effective. Of course I'd touch a little history first. For the last time, I have debated that, in fact, there are some global changes. In history we know the migration of nations, after all we have moved here behind the Carpathians and now we live here, and in fact we have to have some historical memory and connect it to these events. Remember, too, the wars that were here with us; how many refugees were the victims, even then. Families have moved and, of course, have come to an environment where they have also been welcomed or at least temporarily offered assistance or have at least allowed them to move into another environment. Let us also remember the disintegration of our former country. At that time, there were about a million refugees here, and even then we showed some kind of solidarity in some way, including one way of acting, which I imagine is decent for a European country like Slovenia. I now stress that this is the international dimension of the crisis and the wars that have arisen in countries rich in natural resources, oil, and where the interests of capital have caused crises, wars; countries have fallen apart and now, of course, anarchy there, and of course, people are fleeing to an environment where there is some prosperity and of course they want to live in a better environment. I myself had the opportunity to discuss this subject in a group of friendships with the Members of Germany, and the leader of a group of friendships expressed her own opinion that they are in favour of the policies of Merklov, who in some way still advocates that we must be in a kind of solidarity in Europe and allow these people to move into a better environment. The group president herself set her own personal example and accepted a family from Bosnia at the time, which then somehow ensured a normal life there. Of course, I would say myself that we must be aware of the hardships of these people, and I am also against putting up some fences, barriers. After all, we live on this earth, and we are somehow all humans together. And I stress that this is an international crisis. For the last time, I also stressed in the debate that more action and initiatives can be given through the United Nations, the European Union, the Council of the European Union, and thus through some political path to bring about peace, some international force in these areas. It is also possible to re-emphasize and give an initiative to convene an extraordinary meeting of the United Nations or of the Security Council to address this issue. Of course, I would also touch on the topic of how the government has approached to address these problems. I think it is right that we have reacted as we are, and we are also in some way adopting a law that will allow soldiers to join our mission and ensure in some way the security and peaceful arrival of refugees through our country into other countries. So perhaps I would really like to call here for some tolerance and that we may not be dropping arrows on each other left and right and unite somewhere in this and support this law, which will allow these refugees to somehow cross over our country normally, where they have also been assured that they will be able to move. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Marjan Dolinšek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u90	Thank you. The facts we are witnessing in the migration issue here today; I think we all understand where we are. In return, unfortunately, nothing will help us if we evaluate what was, how late it was, and so on. I think we need to list some of the facts that are completely familiar to us today, namely: There are more migrants coming to Slovenia every day, Croatia is not participating, and in no case can we count on Croatia, negotiate and cooperate. [[…]] It is necessary to protect our borders more specifically, to ensure order, peace, both at the border and in the interior where migrants reside. Control over the flow of migrants must be carried out in full. And all these conclusions require us to take certain measures, and that is why the proposal that we have before us is also necessary. We need to give the military the necessary powers to carry out our border security tasks, together with the Slovenian police. Today it has been heard many times, and let me express this opinion: I am glad that we are not on the opposite shores, as far as positions are concerned, of the coalition. We differ in detail, in certain ways, but it is essential that we today accept this proposal of the law, that together – it has also been demonstrated in the debate and earlier on the committee – we are acting in a state-of-the-art and in the spirit of the smooth functioning of our country. To consider the proposal of the law following an urgent procedure; previously, there was a certain dilemma to be heard. I think it is quite clear, from a broader debate and so on, given the interests of the security of the State – therefore, by emergency procedure. This is a systemic measure that will enable the effective management of the exceptional security situations of individuals by protecting the state border facing our country. I believe and believe that the Government has also prepared various other measures, possible additional options for the different situations that will arise in the future, operational plans developed and a defined system of action in individual cases, together with the police and the Slovenian Armed Forces. However, it is essential for the European Union to require assistance, measures, because our border represents not only the borders of our Republic of Slovenia, but also the European border, the Schengen border. And one more thought. Is Europe aware of the dimension of this problem? I am afraid that it is still not serious enough, and it is not a serious aim of a single resolution, control and action at the external Schengen borders, in particular at our border, which is also reflected in the non-interest or other interests of certain Member States of the European Union. And it's serious to think about. I think that we are all, both Slovenia and Europe, on a serious test and a challenge is not easy but manageable. And I think that there is no dilemma; things, as I said before, need to be done in advance. [[…]] Today's long debate, virtually all day, has opened up a lot of things, a lot of thought, reflection, and I am convinced that this is also one contribution, that tomorrow, in particular, the government, specifically both ministries, both for internal affairs and for defence, has done a lot of different things, including what has been heard today, which has been through various debates to hear certain warnings. It is a shame, however, that we are making assessments, it is a new day tomorrow, and I think it is right that today we support this proposal and one piece in a series that is urgently needed. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u91	Mrs. Anita Kolesh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u92	Dear Mr President, the esteemed Minister and Minister and the rest of you! It's such a late hour that I'm not pretending to be watching me or anyone else, so I'm not going to try to be overly graphic and start a show, but to say something that we've actually said more or less in this National Assembly, and I think it's right to summarize them in a few words myself. So the government decided on certain amendments to the Defence Act at night and changed the powers of the military to implement measures to manage the so-called refugee crisis. Earlier, someone mentioned the overburning of police officers; I think that's actually why we decide to help the military, to increase the powers – because our officers too are burned out and there are only as many as they are. I have heard a lot of these comments in the past days and, of course, I think these measures are necessary and I am pleased that we are united in this, or at least very close to unity. It is true that the situation on the ground has led to some point where these activities so far have not been sufficient. However, when we ask ourselves whether it is too late now, or whether it is the legitimacy of such matters at all, we are, of course, legitimately also asking ourselves about it, and it is also right that this is being discussed and that we are also thinking about these salaries. I think we may have debated too little about these dilemmas that we have heard from the United Left. I fully understand them, and in the meantime I have asked myself many times whether we are doing the right thing. But right now, my decision is on the government's side, and I'm sure I'll support these measures. It seems to me that these measures are in the direction of maintaining the normal functioning of the country and also the normal lives of people, which is most important to me. At this point, however, it must also be said that our country is still functioning normally and that these illegal migrants are actually present, but this does not mean that the country is at risk and that citizens are at risk. And if the colleague had previously wondered what the situation was like in Slovenia, this means that no one had said that the situation in Slovenia would be so dramatic that we should also take very dramatic measures. I think they are completely proportional to the situation we have, and it is right to make the decision we are about to make. So in the past, we have just faced some controlling crowd of people who, because of the cooperation of neighbouring countries and because of the good work of our police, as well as all well-functioning humanitarian organisations, have easily crossed the border of our country and then the border to the north. But now it is different, and this measure goes into some gradual action by the State to make the situation better and to make it easier to control it. It seems to me that we must keep this bright side of the human face, and now we have this opportunity to show it to both these migrants and the world, of course, and that we are working together for some appropriate and credible decision. The refugee crisis is much greater than what two million Slovenia can do. That is why, of course, it is also justified to expect the determination of the Government, the President of the Government and all responsible people in our country to act in our own good and for the good of our country, even in the international space. That is why I am pleased with today's news of the help that we are looking forward to and that we have actually become or are even more active in these days. However, I certainly think that we must ask not only for help, but we must demand an equal position, because if we are in Brussels for good European partners and in the UN for a reputable member among the countries of the world family of nations, there is no reason, of course, for us not to call for a more courageous solution to this, not only the European, but also the global refugee issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u93	Mr. Marko Ferruga has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u94	Good morning, everyone. It's early in the morning, of course, I think we're still pretty fresh for these things. We debate joy, and that's good. That means we're still crooked. I will return to the debate on Mrs Jelusicev, who speaks of this famous article 37, paragraph 4, and read it in at least one part, so that we will clarify the concept a little bit: "The Slovenian army can cooperate with the police in the wider protection of the state border within the state territory in accordance with the plans and the previous decision of the Government. Members of the Slovenian Armed Forces do not have police authority to carry out these tasks." And that's why paragraph 37a is coming to relieve the police, because we know that the police are operating on the Schengen borders, and additional powers are being transferred to the military. That's the part. The second part that I wanted to say is this: that there has always been a great deal of dilemma, or that this army has already been activated before or not, then we have the question of the peacekeepers, that we must not put the army on the street, that the military is ready only for its military affairs. And now that you're looking a little further, a little bit further back, as this flux of all these flows of these refugees went, it's actually hard to tell what's right. Maybe it's the right sequence, maybe it's the right thing to do before. However, it is only necessary to say that this huge wave of refugees has led both the Government and everyone else to the fact that, in fact, with our limited capacity, both the police and the military and all other resources, the only possible step then was to activate the army in support of the police. And to conclude. Yeah, normally, I think we're all expecting some help from Europe between us, both in money and in, I'll say, police or other military forces. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u95	He has a word, Mr. Matjaz Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Yes, I wouldn't, but since it's time, I'll say it's midnight, my debate won't help either, because one day, Members of Parliament and Members, we've extended it so that the country can deal more with the problems. Members and Members of Parliament are self-critical. It is true, however, that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia could help us significantly more in making a decision today faster and that this law would already be published in the Official Journal today, and today at 1:00 p.m. the Government would have taken a decision where it would have made a clear operational plan of powers and would have been able to go to the field tomorrow with full powers or powers that the Government would have given. We didn't know how to do that. I'm sad because I've been in these chambers of the National Assembly since 6:30. When the sessions are closed, all are state-owned, everyone is willing to help, everyone knows how difficult it is in this country; when the cameras start, everything in this country is wrong and this government is the worst. We all know each other today, I will say, rely on one individual's opinion, another individual's opinion. But you know what? These individuals will not be held accountable, the responsibility will be borne by the Minister of Defence, the responsibility will be borne by the President of the Government and, of course, this coalition if anything happens. Renata Brunskole sent me one e-mail, probably more to you, where she wrote that it would be good to point out that in this story also humanitarians are fighting volunteers in the Red Cross and that today one of the volunteers was also in some way, I think in Shentilje, injured. He was injured by the pressure and so on and was taken to the hospital for a chest exam. Do you know why this is done? Because we just don't have enough cops fighting every day so we can sort of work in a normal way. And we're still saying, "The army can't do this, the army can't do that, the army can't do that." I am extremely sad that today there is no Minister of the Interior from the first to the last minute in this Chamber. If the Minister of the Interior thinks he doesn't need an army, let him make it clear and the army will stay where most probably want it – in the barracks, there is no problem. Just not tomorrow when people expect to call the Ministry of Defense to account! That's why I'm saying that the government might be able to get these things a little bit clearer. At half-seven there was no problem at the joint meeting, all the parties agreed, all the ministers agreed. With Mr Cerar, all the presidents agreed, all the leaders of the parliamentary groups agreed, except for the United Left, there was little suspense, but she said she would not object. Then, of course, the Cameras lit up and the case began and the Minister of Defence was alone. [[…]] The Minister for Foreign Affairs is sitting here now, and there is no one else. I understand, however, that the Prime Minister has another job to do, that he has to do something else, and that they were at work the other night or before morning, but they were ministers too. Mainly, I hope that what we accept today – without an amendment, I cannot support the SDS, but I will support this law – I hope that this law will be a sufficient basis for the military to help the police. How, in what way, it is right for the Government to adopt as soon as possible a clear operational plan with clear powers of what the military can and cannot do. That's what needs to be done. I'm not an expert, Vinko, but the least I can do is accept it as soon as possible and get everyone on the ground. I know, we've all been monitoring what happened in Slovenia today. I think even we, because from the cameras, from the computers we see, some people don't even know what the problem is in Slovenia. In Slovenia, there is an abnormal problem that we should solve in a way that is quicker. But we spent 20 hours doing nothing, and we shook the reception for the next day. It must now be in the Official Journal tomorrow, only the next day will this law be adopted, etc. And I volunteered not to have anyone reading to me after twelve o'clock. But not expect an army full of authority in the field tomorrow. This needs to be clearly told to people. Don't expect it. I will uphold the law in such a form, and I expect that some of the things that we agree on, we also stick to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u97	Mr. Peter Wilfan has also called, so he has his word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. I will not be here today, of course, to talk long and wide about how, where and why this crisis has arisen, because you, colleagues and colleagues, have done well for fifteen, sixteen hours, as someone has said. I will be brief, and I will focus mainly on this amendment that is ahead of us and that we are actually discussing today. When I look at this amendment, I have the view that I am now a member of the coalition and the coalition obviously does not support this amendment, a problem. But when I look at the content, I don't have a problem, because I think that this amendment is, of course, perfectly fine, it's actually good, and I think it's necessary. For I cannot imagine, not as a citizen, nor as a Member, nor as the former President of the Defence Committee, that we will send Slovenian soldiers and soldiers to the border without the authority that, in the event of crisis situations, they will not be able to defend themselves; for if they cannot defend themselves, they will not be able to defend us. And these situations will increase from hour to hour, because these refugees and migrants, of course, are very well aware that time is not their ally. Winter is coming, in Germany and in other countries where they are going, things are happening that are certainly not good for them, and, of course, they will want to get across the border as quickly as possible from hour to hour, and they will become more nervous and aggressive. I, too, wanted to tell this story, told by my colleague Han, who also told me Renata Brunskole, but now you don't have to, because of course you did it. Now there is something else about the skills or skills of the Slovenian Army. The Slovenian army has a certain number of members of the military police who, of course, can carry out these tasks. In the Slovenian Army there are also quite a number of members who were on international missions. In fact, they carried out tasks there that are almost identical or almost identical to those they would have carried out on our border, so that I don't see too much of a problem in this either. Finally, let me say that I will support this amendment, of course I will also support this amendment of the law, even if the amendment does not receive support, because of course I think it is necessary. However, I wish, of course, that when the Slovenian Army leaves for this task, it will, of course, have sufficient powers in one way or another to be able to take care of its security first and then ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u99	So far, I've heard from two more people, and I think there's enough of you to be the wisest to open. Please sign up. I'm still sitting in this circle. So, according to the applications and given the random order, the following are reported: Mr Uroš Prikl, Miha Kordiš, Mr Jernej Vrtovac, Mrs Violeta Tomić, Mrs Erika Dekleva, Mr Jože Tanko and Mr Jani Möderndorfer. Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u100	Thank you so much for the president's words. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u101	A little silence.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u102	Of course, I will uphold the law, and at first glance the message is not the best; we are sending an army from the barracks. However, it must be realized that this army has something else to do, rather than in the classical sense, when it is fighting and fighting in wars. This army has the task of helping to establish at the borders of order and peace, to ensure the protection of citizens and citizens of Slovenia, to ensure the health and life of all migrants and to in some way all these migratory flows return to a stable track. But, of course, I miss something else about all this. I miss that Europe, however, begins – not only Europe, but also the one that has caused, of course, the United States of America, the instability in the Middle East, in particular Syria – to achieve a common policy and, above all, to resolve the situation at the very hotspot to put out the fire where it started to ignite, then these people will no longer tend to some kind of exodus, but will return to their own fires. Of course, I sincerely want this in the interest of a stable Europe, a stable Middle East and a stable world. As it is said about the law itself, I will support it because I assess or convince me through all these debates that it is essential to ensure order and peace today and immediately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u103	The word is Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, chairman. Look, if you want to make this an honest deal, you could sort it out, as the United Left has already been exposed several times, with some intervention law, but not with some all-night dribbling system law, which is definitely the Defence Act. And the biggest problem in all of this is the threat to the fundamental freedoms of Slovenian citizens and citizens who are today subject to changes in this law on the ground. We have already heard in the debate today that today is not the time for politics, which I certainly agree with. In doing so, I add that the defence of fundamental civil liberties is not politics, but civil duty. A duty that is taken very seriously by the United Left as socialists and should also be taken lightly by other parliamentary groups. I also agree that the situation at the borders is exacerbated. How could it not be, it is a state of affairs in the field, in fact, it cannot be denied. However, I would like to add that the tightening at the border does not take place due to the movement of new and larger numbers of war and economic refugees, but rather the temperature at the borders is raised by the repressive measures of the Slovenian government, which apply the rules aimed at certain totally different situations and completely different situations. For example, when Germany and Austria found that these rules were inappropriate, they were immediately suspended, not for example, by the Government of Mira Cerar; they remained more papal than the pope and, with the support of the right opposition, continue to be held as a drunkard by the fence by non-lifely missing clauses, while still in grave violation of human rights, as Amnesty International warns us. The tightening of the border, which is a direct consequence of the Government's inappropriate conduct, is today intended to justify the threat to the fundamental freedoms of Slovenian citizens and citizens, as presented in the draft amendment to the Defence Act. We already have a purely practical problem in order to alert the police to non-compliance by means of coercive measures. The Slovenian army now has no means of coercion, like the police, but it has something else, it has a weapon. He's got a job, so he's got a gun, and it's just an accident waiting for it to happen, even if we calculate the specific situation we're facing at the border right now. The government leaves people out there in the cold, in the rain, even women and children, weaker and so on, and it is inevitable that sooner or later things are going to start somewhere, so metaphorically as to "shut" purely physically somewhere, and some nerves kneel and "boom" we have a bullet, we have a dead man; what will we do next, what will the excuses be on the government's side? And this is a situation in which we are not forced by the increased influx of refugees, where, in such a situation, the Government's actions and policies, which are also supported by our right hand, are, as we say, more papal than the pope and are totally non-life. Next; changes to the Systemic Law on Defence also affect freedom of movement. Freedom of movement is one of the fundamental human rights and therefore it is essential that it be restricted only in certain specific circumstances by the competent authority and supervised by other public authorities. The army is not going to become one overnight either by definition, and there is no way to lose further words. Now in a few hours, thanks to the coalition and the right opposition, the military will be able to limit the freedom of anyone, including its own Slovenian citizens, not just foreigners. And the military will continue to be able to cut off our freedom anywhere, not only at the border, but in the entire country, which is once again totally unacceptable and is directly due to this reckless pianist move to amend the Defence Act. Finally, we are also dealing with an intervention in the constitutionally protected right to association, which is a fundamental political right. And here, of course, we are asked a rhetorical question, as if the incineration of the citizens of the rebels in 2012 in the markets of Maribor and in the markets of Ljubljana was not enough. If such a law were then in force as proposed today, we could send an army to protestors at the All-Slovenian people's uprisings. And if Slovenia does not need anything at this time, it is an army on the streets for the suppression of fundamental civil rights, which the amended Defence Act allows or will enable it, if adopted, and unfortunately shows that it will be adopted. And we can hope in the future for a soft introduction of the state of emergency if some more repressive political option is chosen in some future elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u105	Mr. Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u106	Dear colleagues and colleagues! My last intervention in this long day. Nevertheless, this is finally one of the first measures, not least the government coalition, which is the solution to this migration crisis. Otherwise, as we have already said in the debates, this measure would have been expected much earlier. But there is absolutely no point in defaming this place, as there is a clear fact that the government lacks a full system of action, of action to address the migration crisis. As a result, all the warnings were made throughout today, when the debate, of course, extended not only to this amendment of the bill, but also to the full resolution of the problem, very much on the ground. And despite the fact that there is a whole day of debate behind us, we still do not know explicitly what powers the Slovenian Army will finally have at the border. We don't know that yet. And also the answer to the question whether a soldier will be able to use a tear gas – there is no answer. Mr Erjavec tells me that he will not be able to, while Mr Šefic said earlier that the army will act alone. And once again, I stress what Mr Han has been saying, I am fully signing what he has been saying. Let the government coalition first coordinate when you come up with such a proposal in the parliamentary procedure. And here the opposition is no problem, at least by New Slovenia, we told the Prime Minister of the Government this morning that we are ready to support the measures that will solve this migration problem. In New Slovenia, if I finish, we will support the bill, as well as the SDS Amendment, because it systematically dictates which means the soldiers will be able to use. For this is also necessary for us to know in essence what their tasks are, otherwise it is a completely meaningless additional acceptance. So it is essential to solve the situation, and it is too late to send the Slovenian Army to the borders to help the police solve the crisis. Things are changing and they're sharpening from hour to hour, and there's news that some uncontrolled migrants have crossed the border. But the locals got them. But do you know what the problem is? This is also a matter of concern for migrants. For they must walk for miles and miles on unsupervised roads. This is why we are talking about control and their security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u107	Mrs. Erika Girl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u108	Thanks for that. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u109	Excuse me, excuse me. [[…]] I missed it. Violeta Tomic has the word first.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u110	Thank you for your word. The President of the Government is a recognised lawyer who referred to ethics, morality and, above all, the rule of law, but here I see none of it. The government currently adopts potentially unconstitutional legislation in a potentially unconstitutional manner following an emergency procedure. He'll send an army to the borders, although we're talking about civilians, women and children here, and certainly not about any military personnel who would endanger the country, even though you've talked a lot about some emergency situations, but about health risks, people have diseases that have long since died out in Europe, and so on. What are you going to do with these people? So far, there has been no danger or security risk. Most of all, someone has really lost their nerve, but put yourself in the skin of these people who have walked in impossible situations thousands and thousands of miles that they have driven across the oceans, half dead, and then stand at one border in the rain, waiting for them to be described. They and their children, frozen and wet. No one's gonna convince me that it takes a soldier to list the fugitive. The list can work for a lot of people, and it's not necessarily that a man is armed, that he's trained, that I don't know what military operations to be able to communicate with these people. Most of all, they didn't clean up the trash. Listen, there's a lot of garbage after the concert. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] The next thing I'd like to point out is: where is the Minister of the Interior? If the police aren't convinced that you want to cooperate with the military, then I don't believe in this mission to be a good one. For who will lead these foolish paramedics, if the two ministers cannot discuss how they will act in the field? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u111	Now, Mrs. Erika Girl has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u112	Thank you for your word. In fact, I don't know why we've been talking about one thing and the same thing for so many hours now, we're going around in circles, we're making sure of what we should do sooner, why we haven't done anything, how the government is inoperable and so on. It's just a novel of the Defense Act. Why this is on the table today, it is clear to everyone, we all understand very well the reasons why we are amending this article of the law. In my opinion, although Slovenia is not in an emergency situation, we have an extraordinary meeting today. The country is not at risk. But it's true that the police need help. Why does he need help? Because we have a changed, different, acute situation. Police have done their work so far very well, excellently, and so have all humanitarian organisations, but the situation has changed. My friend Luke Moon says we're saving things overnight. It seems necessary for him to have a public debate, but we have an extraordinary meeting, and we are adopting legislation on an urgent basis. In such cases, we do not usually have a public debate. And the fact that something changes overnight doesn't actually seem to me like anything's wrong. It proves that we can and are able to respond quickly, respond effectively, and if this is overnight, it is also fine. I don't know if we could have this marriage a month ago. At that time, we were in excellent control, and it is clear from today's debate at the Defence Committee that it is not so easy to send an army to the field, to extend the powers of the military; how would this be heard a month ago when, in fact, the situation we have today has not been and we have been in control of the situation? Mr. Hearst says we're pressing our heads on Friday and we hope that things will work out on their own. I think it is this meeting and the amendment of the legislation that proves that this is not the case. That it's actually the opposite. I think we are adopting legislation at the right time, because now the situation is such that we have to accept it, and in fact the police themselves say that they need help. Mr. Hanžek, you think the army has to be at the barracks and you've been exposing only negative cases all the time. But the military isn't always just in the barracks. You may recall the time when Slovenia was consumed by the stomach, and the army came out of the barracks, and we were all satisfied. And they did something good. Sometimes it may be wise to expose yourself and recall a good example. You also say you don't trust politics; I don't know why you became a politician. I think we can trust the policy that, in fact, we all agree today that we must act. The opposition also says that the amendment of the law will be supported, so I see no reason to accuse and determine when time would be more appropriate than it is now and when we could do something. I think it's high time we acted responsibly, and the only right way is through the country. That is why I will also today adopt a proposal to amend the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u113	Replica, Matjaž Hanžek, 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u114	Thank you very much. She wasn't working with the police at the time of the murder. She was just helping with the logistics and the rest. She didn't get any police clearance. That's the difference. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u115	Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u116	Thank you so much for saying that. Slovenia now has two major problems. One problem is that it accumulates at borders and also at some locations within the country. This is a problem for migrants, and the Government has identified this problem and proposed a legal solution. Another problem that is, however, is the problem with the Government, because it is not able to prepare a consistent solution, but we are facing two views in the government. One is the problem, or view, of the interior ministry, and the other is what we need. And within this it is impossible to reconcile clearly in the government coalition and in the government. We can only ask, how many police officers does Slovenia need to deal with this problem? Second question, do we have so many cops? If we have them, how many tours can we do, and how long do we do this to keep these cops doing this? Obviously the forces we have are not enough for the real police force to deal with the problem ahead of us, and we need the involvement of another part of the security authorities. And what we have proposed with the amendment – and unfortunately none of the government has defined, the President of the Government has even escaped from this debate – is a solution that can help solve this problem. The solution referred to by Mrs Ljubica Jelusic is just as it is now; what is the involvement of the Slovenian Army in the field is in the status of the observer of the event. If we want the Slovenian Army to be able to participate in these operations, it needs to be empowered, it needs to have some specific tasks that come from other powers. We don't have an army to play the role of blue helmets there at the refugee centers, but watch them cross the border, and I don't know what. In these cases, the police and the military will have to act, even in these exceptional situations, which will automatically occur, with each arrival of an additional number of refugees. And this quantity will accumulate; because there will be no spill, so will the problems. And it seems to me that the Government will have to come in one way or another relatively quickly by correcting this law if we want to engage the army in at least some appropriate way to participate in these activities. You spoke here in the government to ask for international assistance. What kind of money? In technical means? Are you going to ask for foreign police help? If foreign police at our borders and within our borders can manage problems with migrants, then perhaps with much greater confidence we can entrust these powers to the Slovenian Army because it is also emotionally connected to these problems. She's gonna do a good technical job. She'll do it for the benefit of the state. The foreign army or foreign forces, if we engage them, will receive them, but they will perform for the interests of their country, even though they will perform these tasks here with us. And I don't understand the roosters in the government and at the top of the police, who insist on some solutions that are obviously bad for the country. The coalition also insists on obviously bad solutions. What we are dealing with today at this extraordinary meeting and following an urgent procedure is a completely irrelevant matter for the needs we need and for the engagement we expect from the military. It's a complete waste of time. We, as I said in the introduction, and we have not changed our position here, will support the solution. However, we are proposing an amendment that would significantly improve the matter, allow action, and I propose that the coalition accept this amendment and that we then amend it for the third reading and complement it with what we will need in three days. In three days we will need a completely different involvement of the Slovenian Army and colleague Gorenak said in the introduction, "make sure that the military and the police are also adequately secured so that they will have adequate equipment so that they can intervene and participate in these activities at all". Today we don't even have a properly equipped police force, we have a poorly equipped army without adequate safeguards and we're sending them to intervention. And I don't understand the government, not the coalition, not one or the other district minister, that they insist on solutions that mean absolutely nothing and bring absolutely nothing. I propose that you accept the amendment and that, after the adoption of this amendment, we add some additional powers to be given to the military so that it can carry out its protection task. I don't know why she'd be ashamed of the Slovenian Army now if she looked at a migrant and realized she had a cold weapon or something. What's the problem? What's the problem if a Slovenian soldier doesn't calm someone down? The American Marines also calmed down on the train there in Paris some migrants who tried to create a diversion and received a prize. And we're ashamed here and we're wise about how to do something so we don't do anything. And then you have so much power to criticize if we suggest something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u117	Mr Karl Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u118	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greeting, everyone, despite the late hour! First of all, I'd like to thank all those who support the law. Also with regard to the amendment proposed by the SDS, let me say that the Government will not support it. Nevertheless, we greatly appreciate your efforts and your engagement, but look, the role of the military and the role of the police is quite precisely defined in the Constitution and we would not like to come to the slippery slope of constitutionality at this time. We know, for example, that these changes that the Government proposes that one of the former Constitutional Judges consider such a solution to be unconstitutional. The government assessed yesterday, when it also held a night meeting, similar to here in the National Assembly – that we will probably end up sooner than the Government did – that these powers that will be given to the military are sufficient for those tasks that we expect to be needed to carry out in order to support the police. I must make it very clear here that there is no competent dispute. Things are clear here. We know that there is a cooperation plan under the auspices of the police and, of course, within this framework, members of the Slovenian Army will be able to carry out individual tasks on their own. Nor can he bear the criticism that we are not prepared to be surprised by all of us. Look, if you're not prepared, believe me, we can't do 20 thousand migrants in three days. A few more than 8,000 came in today. There are certain incidents, there are certain problems, and in general, we manage and manage things. I have to say as head of coordination that we've been working on three scenarios. I can tell you that, for example, up to 3,000 migrants a day could manage this without any major problems. There are already over 5,000 problems, or between 3,000 and 5,000, some problems are already emerging, which mean increasing housing capacity for these migrants, then certain measures to ensure that those authorities in charge can work more effectively. But by the time the number passes over 5,000, we already need such measures as we suggest today. As far as the discussions we have with the European Commission and also with some other countries are concerned, I can say that, for example, very intensive discussions are under way to include the V4 countries with human resources assistance, which is what we call Hungary, Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Poland. Also at European Commission level, we expect police assistance here and, of course, we will also need to examine what the functioning of foreign police forces in Slovenian territory means. Something may have to be changed at the legislative level so that we can do these things. I mean, the government is just taking measures based on what's on the ground and what's on the prognosis. But what is essential is that, as the entry into Greece is over 4 thousand 500 and up to 10 thousand, today, 5,000 new migrants have come to Greece from Turkey – such is the outflow of migrants from Slovenia. Here I can say responsibly that for the time being we have all these things at operational level under control and you can see for yourself – if we have accepted 20 000 in 4 days, that essentially this outflow of migrants from Slovenia is in line with the operational arrangements we have with Austria, with Germany. The problem remains Croatia, which does not want agreements which it does not respect and which leads to the border of this migrant uncontrolled. And of course, there is this danger of dispersion, but also, as you can see, we control it; the police forces are also going into corn, into the forest to bring them to the path that refugees or migrants want, because it is necessary to know: these people do not want to stay in Slovenia. In those days, when there were 20,000 migrants, only 45 of them demanded international protection, and it is impossible to keep them here for a longer time. And that's why it's so important. As far as the European Commission is concerned, financial assistance is also promised here. Why hasn't the application been made yet – because we are assessing what costs will be in the coming days in the coming weeks. Because things can change very dramatically, but they can even dry up because of the winter conditions, because, as you know, Croatia has announced that it will work a fence with Serbia, and, of course, if the flow is stopped there, it will also have consequences for us. It is also agreed that they will provide material aid in material means, as well as technical equipment, especially to the police and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, because I am counting on this law to be adopted today. I can also say that obviously due to the referendum legislation, the law is likely to enter into force in 7 days. But look, this is not a key measure that we have to have tomorrow, because at this point we are controlling these currents. As long as the border with Austria is open, passable, there is no reason for such engagement. It is true, however, that the police teams will get tired and then this support will be needed. So we're counting on the government to be in a regular session on the basis of this law. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] has adopted a decision to initiate this law. [[…]] But as for the data, I'm surprised you don't have any data on what's going on. Look, every day is a press conference. I've been watching it myself today, and I think the press conference is at 12:00, sometimes at 2:00 p.m., where the Secretary of State was today, Boss, and he's telling me exactly what the train is. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Buses and so on. [[…]] So here I really don't understand why you keep saying you're not informed. Once a day, you get information about what is happening on the ground and what are the forecasts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u119	He has a word, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u120	Thank you very much, President. Today, the two-thirds majority will actually adopt a decision or amendment to the Defence Act that will actually enable the military to do what it has not really done so far. That's police authority. The fact is that the police want it, the fact is that today, on the Defence Committee, the Chief of Staff has said that they don't want it, the fact is that Slovenian police are too small, if there's too much, I'll say migration, and it's right to do something. What is lacking in this article is three things, which are crucial to me, and interpretations will always be possible in the future. This amendment of the law does address the current problem that we have, but the law will apply to all cases of security emergencies that we do not know how to define. I've been warning you about this, and I'm sorry we didn't bring you into this dictatorship, why we're opening it up, what cases. And since this is not clear, of course, we have decided to give the police powers that I see only two, that is "warning" and "temporarily restricting the movement of persons". I find it difficult to "travell" because I don't even know what it means because the law on police doesn't know it, and in serious terms this last sentence is "participate in the control of groups and crowds". In fact, when this refugee problem is over, this dictatorship will remain in law. And this dictatorship can mean anything else when we talk about groups, crowds. And that's what I'm just afraid of, because the interpretations, in recent practice, we see, are very different. However, I am most afraid of the third point, which is that "the powers conferred under paragraph 1 of this Article shall be notified to the police without delay". We have thus said that the army can act on its own. And that's worrying. If we put this dictatorship out, then everything that was said by the government and the Ministry of Defence, that's basically just support for the police, then I'd believe it. We're at the point where we're all expecting something; I believe that this dictatorship will not be abused. The Minister of Defence announced on her arrival and later, when she was already the Minister to change the Defence Act, this was announced by several ministers earlier. Minister, I hope that at least then, if you come to this point at all, you can see that it is difficult to gather a two-thirds majority, even this article very seriously, because of that, of course, I don't think it can stay that way. If this is for the needs of the current crisis, O. K., but not in the long run. Then, since the amendment was tabled, it's only right to say something about it. Frankly, this amendment has a significantly better, clear dictatorship and clear delimitation, as far as powers are concerned, than the existing Article. But there is only one thing that bothers me, so I will not support it, and I also said it on the committee, namely that sentence "with the fundamental task of protecting people and property"; for this we have the police, not the military. And all the rest, if I didn't, I would easily support it, because it is more or less very clear what the army is getting with it, and it is also significantly easier to limit and control and cooperate. Therefore, I am sorry that this dictatorship has been brought in, but this has already been with one other amendment on the committee itself, and I hope for the wisdom of politics, government and even all future governments, if this [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] The diction remained that they wouldn't abuse it. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u121	Now I have another report out of this. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Then I give the floor to Dr. Simoni Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u122	Thank you very much, President. Finally, I would like to say by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre that we are assessing this debate today and also the whole treatment as an extremely positive and constructive cooperation, with which we have once again shown that, when it comes to the issue of the state and citizens, we are able to come together, we know how to be country-efficient, responsible and even united. And this is a great achievement that we can make as a parliamentary body, the highest demos, on behalf of the people in this country. However, in light of all of this, I would like to return a little about six months ago when this refugee or migrant issue first appeared at the political summit in our country, and ever since then, we have been very intensive, very careful and very responsible in following what is happening, and we are also developing different scenarios and solutions that we will then pursue in view of the current situation or the coming situation. Why am I exposing this? Because I want to say that we are very thoughtful, responsible, and in particular in one such calm and balanced way, which refers to the various target groups and their aspects, we are looking for solutions that, within the framework of, above all, Slovenia's legal frameworks and its integration capabilities, in this case, respond adequately and effectively to the problem posed. And what we are dealing with today is one of those so-called stepping-up measures. One of the measures that we wanted in the most ideal sense not to be activated was, however, because of this uncontrolled inflow, which we certainly did not blame ourselves for, in the way that it happened to us in the country, which is why we made this decision to go into the activation of that measure. This measure, in fact, already by certain groups in our country, is, in particular, the only group I have in mind that has concerns or differing views on this measure, constitutes a kind of overly excessive measure if you want a hypersensitivity measure to be used to address this issue. In fact, I can understand this, but in the given situation, it is obvious that a single assessment of the entire political arena in this country is that it is a measure that must be activated at this time. There are quite a few guards in this measure. These fuses are such that the Government cannot safely use an undeclared, undefined measure without the consent of the National Assembly. Here it also explained to all those concerns, or to all those, yes, I do, why it is not yet clearly defined today, what is individual of these four powers or powers, what they all refer to. This is what we expect the Government to define precisely when, if it activates this decision, it will then be its own in the National Assembly, when it has to decide again and confirm it. And that's when we expect these relationships and these content to be clear. Now, in the light of what has already been said, the response or explanation of our parliamentary group, which is identical to the one already presented by the Vice-President of the Government to the proposed SDS amendment. First of all, I would like to point out, highlight and thank the SDS for their outstanding state aid and to participate in the drafting of this amendment to the Defence Act. However, at the same time, I would like to explain, in the light of this kind of stepping-up measure, which we do not want to become an excessive measure, that we will not and cannot support in our SMC Group, because we understand it as a measure that is excessive in that it is already approaching the state of the problem or solving the emergency situation because it would give excessive police powers to the military. Therefore, as we say, we do not support this measure. We are not in an emergency situation, but we are in a very difficult situation, for which, once again, it is extremely important that we address them unitedly, collectively and nationally. Thank you very much. [[sign for the end of the debate]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u123	Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1. I inform you that, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 124 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the amendment will be adopted if at least two thirds of the Members present vote for it. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Parliamentary Group, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u124	Thank you very much. We'll support the amendment because it's good. That was the recognition I received from the 12 members of the coalition. And you say you're going to vote no. Here's to explaining this. We've heard a little bit before, but it's not a controversy, it's not a misinterpretation, I'm going to say, in the conveyance of the word, what Mrs. Kustec said, "I've slapped you, I'm very grateful that you won't give me back my slaps." And I think we can give you back your slaps. I think I can. And this. When we discussed all these laws all the time, etc.; Secretary-General, if you inform the Prime Minister of the Government, we now have candidates from Tacno who do not have any police authority, who are not trained police officers, sent them down after a month and a half of schooling. You're fucking with me, ladies and gentlemen, to shorten it. Thank you very much for your explanations to the Vice-President of the Government, Mr Erjavac, but it is very late. I saw you for a moment, you know, a little blurry in front of my eyes, and I saw you as a man dressed in white clothes, wearing a "pants" that "pants." You've done your job well. In short, we will support the amendment. Now, to keep you from slapping Vesta, try to support the amendment. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u125	We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 19 votes in favour and 51 votes in favour. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body made the proposal of the law inconsistent. I also inform you that, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 124 of the Constitution, the law will be adopted if at least two thirds of the Members present vote for it. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group Ambassador, Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that. As we have predicted, we will support the law, regardless of whether the amendment, which would give a certain, not all, but certain powers also to the military, to participate in or engage in these security operations within the Republic of Slovenia, has not been accepted. It seemed perfectly normal for us to engage an army in these security activities, that it should also have the power to temporarily restrict the movement of persons, because if it participates in these actions, it is probably the most common task for someone accompanying these convoys or for the convoys to have this task. It is also probably perfectly normal if you want to engage the army normally for these purposes, so that this army can use certain coercive means, for example, for those migrants who challenge them, so that they can at least use the force of the military to remove them from being able to incline him and then hand him over to the police. Despite the fact that this law is completely invalid, as far as the powers of the military you will engage and have already engaged in these tasks are concerned, it seems reasonable for us to support it. But I am sure that in a few days, this migrant crisis at our borders and within the country will be exacerbated, mainly because of the actions of neighbouring countries, that you will have to come with a correction of the law or allow foreign police to engage foreign security forces in interventions within the Republic of Slovenia. You're here in a dilemma, certainly, so are we. We have offered a good solution that we could, if we wanted and had the will to do so, improve, but the machine works, even if everything breaks down. And that's exactly what you did by rejecting the amendment. We'll support the marriage anyway.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u127	Any other explanations on behalf of the Group of Members first? No, just in your own name, so far two. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u128	Thank you very much. My support for the law goes not because of the arrogant role of the coalition, but because of the needs of the Slovenian state, because of the needs of our citizens and citizens and because of the needs of the police at the moment. Sadly, though, this must be the case. I'd rather have the constructive roles of the coalition and the fair part of the coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u129	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u130	Thank you for your word. I've been listening to this debate for 20 hours, but I haven't got the answers to some of the key questions. The leader of the largest opposition parliamentary group said that I do not use the word disabled, that it is a handicap law. The leader of the largest coalition group said that we had a very thoughtful debate for twenty hours, and then she said, "I expect, if the government is to define precisely, we hope that these relations will be clear if, when, if... " All day long I listened, "I believe" – dear gentlemen, for me the National Assembly is not a religious body. For twenty years you have been accepting in this national assembly, some now also on new bad laws, we are discussing this on a large, long and wide scale up and down. It's my duty to point this out. We didn't know, we can't write down how we're going to control three people in KPK, so obviously you can't write down now that he has a tail and a head. I wouldn't have had any problems with this law if I had a submarital act and if it were clear what Jani was explaining, but it wasn't. Jani believes this, I'm not in Parliament to believe, even if I'm not an atheist, what I don't believe in. And that's why I can't support it. The Foreign Minister said, "this is not a key measure," I agree, this law will not essentially solve much until it is implemented. [[sign for the end of the debate]] He'll save up to one plant, three hundred, four hundred people, because I've been talking to the Minister. I was young with firefighters, but sometimes I was surrounded by fire; let me think a little logically. When you have 5,000 people, they also need a little self-protection; we would need psychotherapists both in Parliament and there, or talk to someone who works in the Age. You know, things like that, I mean, because so much "stupidness," [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] The ones I heard here today, I haven't been in my life for a long time. [[…]] I can't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u131	We're voting. Wow. [[…]] I'd like you to contact me for the last time, all of you, in your own name, with your hands up. I didn't see it before. I'm sorry if I didn't see it. Explanation of the voice in his own name, Miha Kordiši, and this is the last explanation in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u132	Thank you very much, chairman. See, the refugee crisis has triggered the bombing, destabilisation and looting of our allies in the NATO Pact across the countries of the global south, including with the support of the Slovenian political elite and the Slovenian governments, the support that is still going on. Afghanistan 2001 is one such case, then we have Iraq in 2003, Libya happened 2012 as a result of the action by Italy, Great Britain and France. Above all, the most direct trigger of the refugee crisis is the stubborn policy of the West to Syria at this time, and once again the United States of America is leading the way, I have listed just one handful of these cases. And what are bombs and sanctions for Syria, Libya, Iraq, Iran and so on are austerity measures, privatisation and labour market flexibility for Slovenia. The first is the methods of capital for looting workers and resources abroad, and the second is the methods of capital for looting citizens of Slovenia and Slovenian natural, cultural, industrial and other wealth. This is a school case involving two pages of the same coin. Therefore, despite cultural differences, Slovenian workers often have more in common with refugees than they have in common with their fellow citizens of political elites or property, managers, financial and bureaucratic privileges. [[sign for the end of the debate]] Let me conclude with the thought that Benjamin Franklin once said, that "the one who sacrifices freedom for security doesn't deserve either." And the reduction of rights on behalf of security is not an answer, not for refugees and not for Slovenian citizens. And to maintain our security, we are therefore to do exactly the opposite of what the coalition and the right opposition are proposing. We must stop the flames of economic exhaustion [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] and wars not in the Middle East and in Africa, but in Slovenia. [[…]] And that's why I won't support the amendments to the Defence Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-20-SDZ7-Izredna-22.ana.u133	That wasn't an explanation for the voice, it was a tract. But we still vote. There are 71 Members and Members present, 66 votes in favour and 5 votes in favour. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 22nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Good night!
