ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the fourth session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Ksenija Korenjak Kramar, Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko, Mrs Andreja Potočnik, mag. Lilliana Kozlovich, Mrs Vojka Šergan by 16:00, Mrs Jelka Godec, Mr Primož Hainz, mag. Andrej Shircelj, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, mag. Matthew Tonin, Matjaž Hanžek, Mr Srečko Blažič, Miha Kordiš until 5 p.m., Mr Igor Zorčič from 9.30 a.m. to 13 p.m. Ange Logar. I say hello to everyone who's here! Your Honor! Today we mark the International Holocaust Memorial Day, so allow me to speak a few words about this before the meeting continues.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u2	Respectable citizens and citizens, fellow Members and fellow Members! Today, exactly 70 years after the long-awaited release of the notorious Nazi concentration camp Auschwitz, we mark the International Holocaust Memorial Day. More than 6 million Jews and hundreds of thousands of members of other ethnic and social groups, who have been described as obsolete in the idea of the Third Reich, died in this incomprehensible sea. More than 60,000 Slovenes and Slovenes were deported to the so-called death camps, more than six of them never returned, Slovenian Jews almost none. But today’s mark is not intended only for a gift to the victims, the survivors, and all those who sacrificed their lives from unselfish heroism to protect the lives of others. Today is also dedicated to historical, moral and political reflection, with which we must cultivate our collective understanding of the human abilities of good and evil. The Holocaust is a phenologically unique historical moment in which the state, the fundamental defender of individual rights, decided in principle, on purpose and on the basis of official policy, to wipe out all husband, wife and child solely on the basis of their belongings to a particular community. With its comprehensive, uncompromising and boundless murder, the Holocaust has dehumanized man and has shown that genocide is not only a murderous madness, but it is more – a policy that promises to drown foreign politics: one nation, one country, one truth. Unfortunately, the Holocaust, despite its uniqueness, is not the first crime of all crimes, which, in its preamble, also directly and unequivocally recognises the 1948 Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide. Today, when we stand firmly in the 21st century with both legs, we see genocide in us as Janus' face of Western narratives of civilization and progress. Yet, not even tens of millions of victims of the rise of the national state and its imperialistic ambitions, nor millions of victims of the Holocaust, seem to have been sufficiently alert. Maybe we're learning too slowly. Maybe not enough. Maybe we still don't care. Philosopher Edmund Burke said that for the triumph of evil is enough for good people to do nothing. It's not just that people don't realize their constitutional power for power, it's enough to let them rule evil, not thinking. Cambodia, Rwanda, and Srebrenica are eloquent witnesses of this situation. Repeated is what we swore would be no more; the political utopia of genocide remains a dangerous temptation. But we can change that and we have to change it! With all that comes with humanity and humanity, we can face it only if we understand it. In the case of Holocaust and genocide, understanding of our moral and political duty with a view to confronting them is broader. We need to examine and question the links between inhumane atrocities and the burning social challenges and to understand that meaningful peace and coexistence cannot coexist with criminal inequalities that give birth to destructive extremes. This day therefore symbolizes not only the power of memory, but also the power and meaning of learning and understanding for a better future. Today we renew and consolidate our commitment to respect for human rights and human dignity, our commitment to respect for diversity, our commitment to a common understanding of freedom, equality and justice. It is our duty to transfer this common potential and this unrestrained power to the generations that are coming. Only in us will this preserve man and on earth mankind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u3	We're moving on to 12. On the basis of the information provided by the European Parliament and the Council on the implementation of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the European Parliament and the Council are invited to take part in the implementation of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union by the European Union, the European Parliament and the Council on the Functioning of the European Union, the European Parliament and the Council on the Functioning of the European Union, the Council and the Council on the The proposal for a declaration was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to the President of the Government, Dr Mir Cerar, to further explain the proposal for a declaration.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u4	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! You have before you a declaration of guidelines for the functioning of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union. This important document has been carefully considered at the meetings of the competent working bodies. Allow me to introduce myself to the key challenges facing the European Union and Slovenia in 2015. For the Union, 2015 may be a year of challenging political challenges, but also a period of high expectations. Responses to the tragic events that rocked France this month have expressed solidarity between citizens, peoples and countries of the European Union. At the solidarity meeting for unity in Paris, which I myself attended, we witnessed the extraordinary mobilisation of citizens and politicians in support of common values, in particular freedom of expression and the rule of law. Our job is to defend these values so that we can go together in difficult times. In the coming weeks, an effective response will be needed from all Member States, which, while respecting human rights and freedoms, must ensure the necessary security in Europe. Above all, we need to improve communication between countries and between parts of society and strengthen mutual trust and awareness that no religion, belief or ideology excuses terrorism. It is not only about increasing our security, but it is about common reflection on the causes, which also lead young people in particular to radicalisation and terrorist acts. To consider how to ensure understanding of diversity and successful integration into society. The European Union is a community of all. If we do not pay due attention to issues such as social inequality, lack of education, unemployment and alienation, such tragic and pointless events will be repeated in the future. At the same time, it is also important for the European Union to cooperate effectively with neighbouring and other countries. Although the assessment of the threat in Slovenia has not changed significantly, we are aware of the fragility of such a situation and therefore we want and need to be an active member in both security and other areas of cooperation, in particular between the European Union and the Western Balkan countries. A respected choir! The issues of freedom and security are, of course, not the only challenge we are facing in the European Union. The momentum of economic growth and employment has for some time required decisive action by both the European institutions and the governments of all Member States. If we want new jobs, we need to ensure sustainable economic growth. The latter can only be achieved through the right combination of responsible fiscal policy, forward-looking structural reforms and smart investment. In implementing this, we must be strong enough and, above all, credible to do what we do. Together we have achieved that Slovenia has successfully implemented a number of measures in the process of structural reforms and consolidation of public finances so far. They're already giving the first results. In doing so, we were also assisted by the so-called specific recommendations of the Commission, which some like to show as some kind of Brussels dictatorship. In fact, they're a long way from that. With the right approach, which we are already taking, we are being helped on the path of the country from the crisis, whether it be Slovenia or one of the other members of the European Union. We have embarked on this path, and with great efforts, particularly in recent months, we have made great progress, which is also evidence of relatively high economic growth. Evidence is also the renewed confidence of markets, as shown by improved credit ratings, and the fact that, despite recent fluctuations in financial markets, we achieve a record low return on Slovenian bonds, which makes our debt cheaper. We must not lose this renewed trust. If we want this growth to be long-term in order to bring more quality jobs, structural measures must continue. The government's objective for this year is clear: we want to reduce the deficit below 3% of the gross social product. We have also set up an appropriate budget balance for 2015. At the same time, with many other measures, we will take the first important steps towards concrete changes in public administration, health and, lastly, economic restructuring. In order to be more competitive, we are determined to make a marked improvement in the business environment, we have many young and pervasive entrepreneurs who need to be given a chance at home. We are known for our innovations, technological progress and research results, but we do not yet know how to make good use of them. We therefore want to reduce administrative burdens and simplify legislation in order to burden the small economy and pave the way for investment. This practice will also be advocated in the European institutions. We will also continue to privatise in the framework of the list of 15 companies. That is how we agreed and made a legal and political commitment at the highest level. Let me stress that privatisation is primarily aimed at improving corporate governance, opening up new markets and thus increasing competitiveness and growth. That's why we're looking for strategic partners. Of course, the full transparency of the procedure and the price are also important in choosing, as we want to reduce government debt with the buyer and finance measures for growth and a more social state. Promoting investment is a key element of economic growth. This year, special attention will be paid both in the European Union and at home. The Junker Investment Plan for Europe must simply be a success story for Europe and Slovenia. It is high time to move from many ideas to actions to start building, to update. Slovenia has identified 22 projects totalling EUR 9.2 billion in the investment plan so far. These are projects that must be implemented in one way or another – from the modernisation of the outdated rail network, the construction of flood protections, the upgrading of major road sections, to investments in the digital network and social infrastructure. This list is, of course, open to new projects. The Government is aware of the key importance of well-prepared projects and has therefore set up a working group to coordinate the preparation and monitoring of these investment projects. At the same time, we will note that clear criteria and funding mechanisms are agreed in the EU institutions when they consider legislative acts in this area, which will be equally accessible to all. It would be unfair and dangerous in its own terms if this instrument were to fail to help only larger and richer Member States. When we talk about investments, we must not forget that cohesion policy funds are still our main source of investment. According to the latest data, Slovenia received almost 2% of GDP in 2014 from the European budget. This means that we have received more than €633 million from the European budget than we have paid for it. In the last half of the year, after drawing from the 19th, we were able to turn to the 10th place among the members and, at the same time, successfully agree with the Commission on both a quality partnership agreement and an operational route. On her official visit days ago, the Commissioner for Regional Policy told me that she would promote Slovenia as an example of what can be done in such a short time. We can't lose this dynamic. We will insist on maximising cohesion funds as regards the successful completion of existing projects, as well as the successful and smart use of funding by 2020. We will also look for economic growth in trade agreements, particularly in the transatlantic trade and investment partnership, which is an important pillar in the newly defined transatlantic partnership. I am confident that the agreement will provide new opportunities for many Slovenian companies, but at the same time we will not allow the reduction of existing standards, in particular the reduction of the health, safety, nutrition, environmental and labour standards of the Union. Fear of an agreement is not entirely unfounded, but it is not insurmountable. We must overcome it with consistent transparency, through continuous dialogue with all those interested in progress in the negotiations and the examination of all aspects of the gradually emerging elements of the agreement. We must not rush into such important negotiations, nor at all at the expense of content. It is better to take more time if this proves necessary for a better agreement. At the same time, we need to know that in a globalised world, close partnerships are being sought everywhere. Ladies and gentlemen, for Slovenia it is also very important to strengthen the euro area, which is not only an economic monetary but also a political project. The success achieved so far in ensuring financial stability is due both to the actions of the European Central Bank and to the political will of the euro area Member States. Despite major steps in recent years in the establishment of the Economic and Monetary Union, the latter has not yet been completed. I expect that we will continue to discuss its further deepening in the coming month. In this context, solidarity and responsibility play an extremely important role for Slovenia. It is likely that a lot of energy will also need to be focused this year on relations with the Russian Federation, which since last year has been the most co-formed by the crisis in Ukraine. The European Union is united that the policy of sanctions can only be changed if the commitments made in the Minsk documents are met. The situation in eastern Ukraine has deteriorated significantly in recent days. Maintaining a principled stance on the need to respect the obligations of international law and the security framework and the territorial integrity and sovereignty of countries must remain at the heart of our continued action. The very changing nature of relations with Russia is one of the reasons for the adoption of measures to enhance the European Union's energy independence. I expect the European Commission to present a clear vision of the Energy Union in early February. A vision that includes all aspects of energy policy and will lead to a greener and cleaner Europe with secure energy supply and affordable energy. We also want the Energy Union to include ambitious climate policy. We are entering a key phase of international climate negotiations, which is expected to lead to a new global agreement at the end of this year and to a key stage in the preparation of new EU legislation to reduce greenhouse gas emissions beyond 2020. At the same time, both of them must make it possible to stop the rise in temperatures and lead to green growth with new jobs and to preserve the competitiveness of the European economy. The international conference in Paris must deliver ambitious results. Slovenia will continue to pay particular attention to the enlargement of the European Union to the Western Balkans and to supporting reforms in these countries. The fact is that enlargement policy is one of the greatest successes of the European Union and a key mechanism for ensuring stability, security and development on the European continent. This is particularly important for Slovenia, which borders this region and has important political and economic interests. Ladies and gentlemen, the year before us will be marked in one way or another by parliamentary elections in at least eight Member States. I would like to point out the recent elections in Greece and those coming in the United Kingdom. Elections are the foundation of democracy and people's will must be respected. I hope and believe that the final decisions of all actors will be prudent and that in these and other cases wisdom will prevail, that only together can we be stronger. Major challenges require strong political will, especially if we are dealing with dangerous forms of populism. I am convinced that limiting the freedoms on which the EU and its internal market are based will only lead to greater fragmentation and discriminatory treatment of its citizens. This has never been and must not become the purpose of European integration. We therefore need more courage to defend the positive aspects of European integration. We need a greater and more active focus of the Member States of the European Union on key dossiers leading to improved economic growth, competitiveness and quality jobs. This is particularly true for the territorial and demographic smaller countries, including Slovenia. Our fundamental strategic interest in an increasingly complex and competitive world is the preservation of a strong European Union and its institutions. This, of course, does not mean that we will not be constructively critical until they do. We must also not forget the policies which I may not have specifically mentioned today, but which nevertheless contribute significantly to the welfare and well-being of Slovenian and other European citizens. I have in mind safe food, self-sustainment with food, rights arising from public health, freedom of movement, free movement of information and so on. These are the specifics of Europe; the specifics of Europe, which Slovenia will always strive for. These specialities should remain and preserve Europe as a driving force for democracy and social and environmental awareness in the world. Dear Members and Members! The debate on the fundamentals and fundamental values of the European Union must also be revived in the search for economic growth and competitiveness through the prism of today. Also through dialogue with civil society, seek answers to a number of challenges, such as violence, youth unemployment, poverty and social exclusion. If we face our problems successfully at home, if we are united enough, open and credible in the European Union and the world, we will also be stronger. We must be aware of this in all areas of our operation in the institutions of the European Union. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u5	The proposal for a declaration was addressed as competent working bodies by the Committee on European Union Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Policy. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 154 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Foreign Policy has also defined the amendment tabled by the United Left Group to the supplementary proposal for a declaration. I give the floor to the President of the Committee on European Union Affairs, Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker, to present the report of the Committee to the proposal for a declaration.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Honourable President of the Government, Honourable Council of Ministers, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! The Committee on European Union Affairs is at its 20th session. 1. 2015 As a competent committee, the proposal for a declaration submitted by 17. 11. 2014 The Government submitted to the National Assembly for its consideration. Within the time limit set for the proposed declaration, the amendments were tabled by the Members: Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer (SMC), Franc Jurša (Desus), Matjaž Han (SD) and Mr Jožef Horvat (NSi) and the Commission for National Communities. To the proposed amendments, the Government defined itself at the 20th meeting of the Committee, which was supported by the amendments by the Members of the Committee, Dr Simone Kustec Lipicer, Franca Jurša, Matjaž Hana and the Commission for the National Community, not by the amendment of Ambassador Jožef Horvat. Additional explanation The proposal for a declaration was made by Dragoljub Benčina, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Before the hearing, the rapporteurs presented the reports to the draft declaration by some of the working bodies of the National Assembly and the Commission of the State Council for International Relations and European Affairs. Otherwise, the Committee adopted reports from all the working bodies of the National Assembly. The proposal for a declaration was dealt with in terms of its competence and also supported by it. In the debate, MEPs highlighted, inter alia, the non-inclusion of the Investment Plan for Europe in the Proposal for a Declaration, the nomotechnic deficiencies regarding the period for which the Declaration is adopted, and the inclusion of the contents of the Digital Agenda for Europe. The representative of the Government made further clarifications on the questions raised. The Committee adopted the following amendments to the proposal for a declaration: several amendments to individual parts of the proposal for a declaration limiting the duration of its validity to 2015 and three amendments to Chapter Education, Youth, Culture, Sport, Culture and Audiovisual Policy. The specific content of the amendments adopted is also reflected in the report received. After the discussion and vote on the amendments, the Committee on European Union Affairs voted on all parts of the Proposal for a Declaration in the light of the Committee's competence. Eight members voted in favour and two opposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u7	I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy, Mr Joseph Horvath, to present the report of the Committee on the Proposal for a Declaration and the additional report of the Committee on the completed proposal for a declaration.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable President of the Government, Ministerial Assembly, Honourable Colleagues and Colleagues! At its 12th meeting, on 16 January 2015, the Foreign Policy Committee considered the proposal for a declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union from July 2014 to December 2015. Representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence and, of course, other representatives of the Government participated in the meeting of the Committee. Further explanation The proposal for a declaration was made by the State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Dragoljub Benčina, who stressed that foreign policy is more difficult to tackle due to difficult foreseeable challenges and events and rapidly changing geopolitical situations. She said that the Ukrainian crisis had shown that the European Union needed a clearer vision for future cooperation with the Eastern Neighbourhood, taking into account the leadership for further economic and political integration with the Eastern Partnership countries. With regard to the Southern Mediterranean region, she stressed that it is facing more serious challenges, and it is therefore necessary to develop and support a common and effective neighbourhood policy in the form of a common platform for effective conflict resolution. According to Benchin, the proposal for a declaration also advocates a comprehensive approach to ensuring global peace and security and to respect human rights and freedoms and promotes a non-discriminatory approach to vulnerable groups. Mr Kopmajer, Vice-President of the Defence Committee, presented the report of the Defence Committee, which did not accept the amendments to the proposal for a declaration and supported the proposal for a declaration. The amendment's rapporteur, Tilen Bozič, the SMC Group, then presented the new text of the amendment, explaining the fundamental differences between the two, stressing the importance of transparency in the conclusion of the Agreement on the Transatlantic Partnership for Trade and Investment (TTIP), saying that it was at a stage where it was not yet available with sufficient information. The debate highlighted the gap between the proposal for a declaration and the actual situation in the area of neighbourhood and strengthening economic cooperation, the lack of public involvement in the development of transatlantic trade and economic agreements and the importance of ensuring security in the region and the world in view of past terrorist attacks in Paris. In the end, the question was raised whether the Government had already addressed the projections of the contribution of TTIP to the Slovenian economy. In doing so, the Secretary of State explained that the projections were being prepared, followed by an analysis which would form the basis for the formation of the Government's position. This position will also be presented in the National Assembly. After the discussion, the Committee decided on the newly proposed amendment of a qualified proposer and adopted the following amendment by thirteen votes and one against: In Chapter External Affairs and Defence, the EU chapter as a global actor and relations with strategic partners, the third and fourth paragraphs amend and the text is given in writing. Finally, the Committee adopted, with eleven votes against and one against, the opinion: The Committee on Foreign Policy, as a competent working body, considered, in the light of its competence, the Proposal for a Declaration on Guidelines for the Functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union institution from July 2014 to December 2015 to Chapter External Affairs and Defence, adopted the amendment in the EU chapter as a global actor and relations with strategic partners. Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to present an additional report. At its 12th urgent meeting on 23 January 2015, the Foreign Policy Committee considered the proposed amendment of qualified applicants under Article 154(4) of the Rules of Procedure. Representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs participated in the committee. A further explanation of the amendment was given by the leader of the Group of Ambassadors, Associated Left colleague Luka Mesec. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Dragoljub Benčič, said that the negotiations were still under way and the Committee had voted on the proposed amendment and had not adopted the amendment. He voted with only one vote in favour and 13 votes against. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u9	I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Honourable Council of Ministers, dear colleagues and colleagues! Let me first, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats, thank the President of the National Assembly for reminding us today, on behalf of all of us, of the victims of the Holocaust. Colleagues and colleagues, today we are talking about a declaration on the direction and functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union for the period July 2014 to December 2015, i.e. for a period of half a year ago. It would make sense to consider the declaration only for the future period and, in return, to consider a larger report on the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union. So much for formality. The reasons are, in fact, known to be why such a delay. We have also drawn attention to these formalities at the time of consideration of the declaration on the competent working bodies. On the content, I would like to put an end to the introductory reflection on the better functioning of the European Union and on the more effective cooperation and exchange of mutual information between the European Union and Slovenia, and in particular on the active participation of the Slovenian Government in the functioning of the institutions of the European Union. In the past, it has been noted that Slovenia has not been sufficiently active in the institutions of the European Union, particularly at the meetings of individual Councils of the European Union. It was noted that there was no Slovenian opinion or Slovenian vote. Our ministers don't go to council meetings. This was said at the beginning of this year, on 5 January, at the consultation of Slovenian diplomacy. In the past, Mr Rado Genorio has challenged the poor participation of Slovenian ministers in ministerial councils. Lately, this statistics have improved visibly and we want to keep it that way and welcome it. It is true, too, that the Members of the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats – are following the compositions of delegations at the meetings of the Council of the European Union and we note that the participation of ministers has been good in recent times. We would also like some Member States of the European Union to implement the practice in the National Assembly, to have the President of the Government present before the European Council or before the competent committee, and to report to the National Assembly or at least to the competent committee after the European Council. This is every time a key decision at EU level, which, of course, also tanges the Republic of Slovenia. A number of Member States of the European Union have an exemplary exchange of information with the institutions of the European Union. The New Slovenia Group expects that when we amend the law on cooperation between the Government and the National Assembly in matters of the European Union, we will also write this in law. Therefore, better cooperation in the spirit of the Treaty of Lisbon, which gives national parliaments more power, is more powerful. We have repeatedly said that national parliaments are an integral part of the European parliamentary system. The second area to be highlighted is the European Union 2020 strategy and the European Semester. Within the 2020 strategy, we believe that there is not enough will to implement the Digital Agenda for Europe. The Digital Agenda for Europe is one of the most important components of the Europe 2020 strategy. ICT companies, information and communication technologies, are today not only in Europe, but also in the world, the fastest growing companies. We must be aware that Slovenia has enormous potential in this area, we have good ICT engineers, but we do not provide the right business environment for the implementation of this digital agenda. We also hear this from some government representatives. Due to the unincentived business environment, ICT companies, especially medium and small businesses, and young ICT engineers are moving abroad, and we are losing jobs and intellectual potential. Colleagues and colleagues, the world will be digital, Europe will be digital, and Slovenia will be digital. The one who won't be digital won't be digital. The third package, which we must mention in the declaration, is not explicitly defined as an area to be regulated this year, but tax discrimination against migrant workers. We are talking about about about 15,000, maybe 20,000 Slovenian workers who emigrate daily or weekly from Pomurje, Styria, Koroška and other parts of Slovenia mainly to Austria and are discriminated against in the payment of income according to tax residence. In fact, in Austria in the same factory, they may be doing the same work with the same machine, the same operation of two workers; one is our resident, the other is an Austrian resident. For the same work you get, clearly, the same gross salary, and the net salary is very different. We're not going to trouble the Income Act here, we're not going to trouble the constitutional decisions. That's not a problem. The problem is, in fact, that the European Commission started dealing with at the beginning of last year, and that is tax discrimination. It is true that we do not have the same tax system in the Member States, but in some way this problem should be solved or affected workers – so at least they think they are affected – these 18 000 – have to be given clear answers by the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Slovenia Group of Members - Christian Democrats We will not oppose the proposal for a declaration.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u11	The word is given by the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group, Dr. László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr President of the Government, distinguished Minister, Ministers, Colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union enjoys our support. We agree with the priorities of guidance, such as strengthening the Economic and Monetary Union, improving the business environment and economic growth, creating an energy union with an appropriate and human-friendly climate policy, promoting better quality and biofriendly food, and, last but not least, the European Union's visible role in addressing security, humanitarian, migration and other current challenges. The proposal for a declaration was also addressed by the Commission for the National Communities of the National Assembly. In the debate, we focused on the area of human rights with particular emphasis on the direct and direct impact of such documents on the conservation and development of national communities. Although the competent organisations of the Hungarian and Italian communities support the proposal for a declaration, it was also critically pointed out in the debate that the guidelines for the proposed declaration take into account very high standards, which is correct and which is still formally applicable to national policy in Slovenia, but are not consistently implemented or enforced in practice. While the guidelines for the declaration we are receiving today are in force within the framework of the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union, we believe that there is always a need to draw attention to the gap between formal standards and actual practice. The proper formality of this content in the documents, as well as the proposed declaration, is not sufficient, and it is therefore expected that matters will actually change for the better. In the section Education, Youth, Culture, Sport and Sub-section Culture and Audiovisual Policy, we proposed an amendment which, compared to the original text, more clearly and bindingly emphasises Slovenia's commitment to the protection and promotion of cultural and linguistic diversity and the development of intercultural dialogue and the development of intercultural competences in this field. This is in conjunction with the Treaty of Lisbon, which stipulates that the European Union respects its rich cultural and linguistic diversity and cares for the protection and development of European cultural heritage. The proposed supplement, which also benefited from the support of the Ministry of Culture, was supported by the competent committee and is thus an integral part of the proposed text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u13	The word is given by the SMC Group, for which Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u14	Dear President of the National Assembly, distinguished ministerial team, colleagues and colleagues! The European Union is now one of the world's leading regions, both in the humanist and social spheres, and especially in the economic and financial sphere. The European Union's development policies and financial resources are those that can provide Member States with important support and impetus in building their national development capacities, if that is what these countries, of course, want to do and can benefit from. The European Union's GDP in the last decade, since its member is also Slovenia, amounts to around 12 trillion euros annually. In 2012, for example, the European Union of Slovenia allocated a total of EUR 932 million in financial resources, representing 2.66 per cent of Slovenia's gross social product. During the same year, Slovenia contributed EUR 333.5 million and 0.95 million of its gross social product to the European Union budget. Our country's entry into the monetary union in 2007 has only increased the role of the European Union in our country, particularly through the greater and more direct impact that the institutions of the European Union have taken on in domestic policy. In the current context of the economic and financial crisis, the impact of the European Union institution through various political mechanisms, such as the European Semester and budgetary control, has further strengthened, and at the same time potentially has also strengthened the power of our country or of the Member States of the Monetary Union, as it has given them the opportunity to represent their national interests, the interests of their country and people through co-forming policies, if they know and want to take advantage of it. In the SMC Group, we believe that the country's orientation into the international environment is one of the pillars of our country's further development. We also believe that it is the European Union that represents an important partner with which these development potentials can be co-examined and co-formed if we only participate in these processes in a responsible and active manner. The proposed declaration confirms Slovenia's commitment to European values and objectives, as already defined in the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The content of the declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union during the period from July 2014 to December 2015 is, in the light of everything mentioned, understood as the starting policy document not only the political orientations of the European Union, but in particular the central guidelines of our country in the economic, monetary, sustainable and development, political and wider social environment of the European Union. From the content of the declaration, clear political commitments after dialogue and partnership can be seen both between the political institutions of the country and the institutions of the European Union, the civil society groups concerned and the political institutions within the country. In the case of the latter, particular attention is also paid to the commitments, relations and responsibilities between the executive and legislative branches of authorities within our country or each country in co-forming the European Union's policy. The adoption of common policy guidelines and decisions at European Union level after adoption becomes binding for Member States. It is precisely this fact that plays the role of national parliaments as the central political institution through which people must express and represent the will of people in policy-making and adoption processes. Parliaments play a central role in this regard, ensuring the implementation of the fundamental principles of democracy, the legitimate and responsible functioning of the authorities and, for these reasons, in presenting the SMC Group's position on the proposal for a declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the EU institutions, I would like to touch on the roles and competences of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The Slovenian National Assembly takes an extremely important place in EU affairs, since, like in Germany, France, Sweden, Austria, Finland, Hungary, the role of Parliament is constitutionally defined in European Union matters. The National Assembly shall be given the powers of the supervisor or the escort to keep the Government informed of political activities at EU level, as well as of the co-founder of national substantive positions to be taken into account by the Government on behalf of the State in its further operation at European Union level. The relationship between the National Assembly and the Government is further governed by the Law on Cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in matters of the European Union, which must be adopted by the two-thirds quorum of the Members present. Furthermore, these relations in detail are also defined within the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The role of the national Parliament is therefore understood as crucial in both the substantive and the procedural aspects of Slovenia. In the process, it is expected that Parliament will participate formally, through the work of its home labour bodies and also in plenary meetings, as is the case today, in co-forming our national positions and the role of our country in the European Union, as provided for by the letters of law. In terms of content and perspective, in particular, he will identify and create concrete substantive objectives and actions through his past good experience and practices and clear programming visions and the pursuit of will and the needs of people together with the Government. To date, monitoring the functioning of the National Assembly in EU matters, as disclosed by, for example, the data of the State Assembly's Research and Documentation Sector in a procedural sense, shows that the work of the National Assembly has been well done. The number of meetings and cases dealt with has continued to be high since accession to the EU. Unfortunately, we cannot confirm this with the same certainty in the event of the actual substantive involvement of the National Assembly in the process of co-forming EU policy. In addition to the day-to-day parliamentary experience, they also point out the findings of international comparative studies, which, unlike ministries and the role of national civil servants, in Slovenia do not recognize at all as an relevant substantive co-founder of national positions at EU level. The first, as well as the constitutional, legal and commercially defined cooperation between the Government and Parliament in this context, is recognised as negligiblely irrelevant. The points raised point to a number of fundamental problems that our country faces and must also reconsider if it wants to take its commitment after open and constructive action in the EU to the future. The general absence of the National Assembly from these processes, which is most often demonstrated in practice by the fact that the EU's parent working body is given a hearing or better said formal confirmation in a package, literally overnight, directly to the meeting table, not only by depriving Parliament in practice of the competence to co-decision in EU matters, but by the fateful establishment of the fundamental principles of a democratic, transparent and, above all, in development and in public good time, a well-focused and well-informed political process at the level of the country. Of course, we welcome and support the SMC Group today's declaration because of our programme commitments and our other belief in its pro-active orientation, while at the same time aware of the political responsibilities that we bear as Members in the processes described to our citizens, so we also bear our call here to improve the practice so far and, in future, in a timely and substantive manner, to work together to address such documents, which should have been dealt with at least a year ago and not only at a time when a third of the content relating to the period from July 2014 to January 2015 has been formally considered, I believe that today's formal approval of this document has taken place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u15	The text is given by the Desus Group, followed by Mrs Marinka Levičar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u16	Mr President of the National Assembly, Ministers and Ministers and other members of the Government. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to present to you the position of the Desus Group on the proposal for a declaration on the direction and functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union for 2015. By adopting this declaration, we want Slovenia's policy in European matters to be reviewed, that the public is aware of the open issues facing the European Union and Slovenia. At the same time, the Declaration provides a broader framework for the preparation of the positions of the Republic of Slovenia, represented by the Government in the EU institutions. Speaking of transparency, I must stress that it seems extremely important to us that we have adopted an amendment on the working body to ensure transparency in the negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership agreement. There will therefore be no doubt that this agreement would not ensure the preservation of the environmental, social, labour, health and other standards of the European Union. Your Honor! In the Desus Group, we will support the proposal for a declaration, as Slovenia commits itself to its action to be geared towards development, economic growth and employment and sustainable solutions for the benefit of the whole society. This is very important for Desus, and we will also closely monitor the effectiveness of the measures taken for economic growth and for active employment policy. Together, we will need to strengthen the fight against poverty and social exclusion. In the area of health, Slovenia must examine aspects of financing long-term care and undertake an in-depth review of health expenditure by analysing potential savings, which, of course, must not be to the detriment of patients. European healthcare systems are facing the challenges posed by demographic changes in the age structure of the population. People's expectations about better access to quality health care and new health technologies are justified. We expect measures to be geared towards supporting Member States in providing sustainable and effective healthcare and health care systems for the population. We are also pleased that Slovenia will actively strive to keep 75% of the population working and to reduce the number of poor and socially excluded by 2020. The high unemployment of young people has serious social consequences for all generations and it is right that the fight against youth unemployment remains one of the main priorities of the European Union. We support the implementation of the Youth Guarantee Fund, which is crucial for starting new jobs for young people and for improving the transition from school to work. In doing so, I must mention that in the Desus Group we want a similar European scheme for the elderly, for the 50 plus generation, which is virtually unemployable in the event of the loss of a job today. The Desus Group also supports environmentally friendly tax measures and other economic instruments for the transition to a green, low-carbon economy, including environmentally friendly subsidies. Respected and respected! The Desus Group sees no reason why the proposal for a declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union would not be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u17	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Germany.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u18	Honourable President, Honourable Council of Ministers, Honourable Colleagues and Colleagues! It is generally known that the European Union is based on the principle of rule of law, which means that all its activities are also based on contracts agreed voluntarily and democratically by all Member States. In these binding treaties, Member States shall set their objectives in a number of policy areas. One such document is before us today. It identifies the activities that will be carried out as a Member State primarily within the Council and the key policy orientations of the Republic of Slovenia in specific areas. One of the major challenges of the European Union is to work in line with the European spirit of integration and the solidification of the foundations on which the unique economic and political integration of the eighty European countries has grown. Economic cooperation in the huge single European market is the European Union's driving economic force, which enables the free movement of goods, services, capital and the free movement of people who are still developing and growing. The European Union, in its desire to improve the functioning of the Single Market, is faced with questions about how to continue to ensure a high degree of prosperity, unity, peace and thus enhance political integration and stability in the European space. The global economic crisis and the turmoil in the euro area have also left consequences for employment in the European Union, and it is so important that European policies find solutions that will consolidate and nurture the fundamental values of the EU and ensure human dignity, freedom, democracy, equal opportunities, rule of law and respect for human rights for more than half a billion people. In this context, the declaration, despite the fact that this is a document at the principal level, is an important indication of how our community will develop, what our common priorities are and where we are going. Despite all the good intentions and likeness of the document, we must be sovereign and principled in policy-making. Slovenia needs to shape its policy and we must not just follow the interests of the great, many times in conflict with the interests of our people. We welcome the guidelines that Slovenia will follow in its operation on the European parquet and will commit itself in all areas to moving towards development goals, towards economic growth and employment, and to ensuring the sustainable development of society and individuals. We welcome Slovenia's future efforts to strengthen the cooperation of higher education institutions with the economy in the design and implementation of study programmes that will provide the highly educated with the skills needed to respond quickly and effectively to the needs of the labour market. It is also very important to build on the Economic and Monetary Union, which will not only strengthen economic cooperation between Member States, but also take into account the social aspects and social consequences of the financial crisis. It is important to continue the implementation of the Europe 2020 economic strategy, which Slovenia is already following and is advocating for 75% of the working population between the ages of 20 and 64, and that the number of poor and socially excluded people will be successfully reduced in the light of the effective measures supported by the State. Strengthening the internal market is of paramount importance, but we want to create such an energy union that has an ambitious climate policy and will take into account the sustainable use of resources as well as a healthy environment. With regard to the production of better food, food security and the reduction of food discards, Slovenia will advocate measures to promote the implementation of the principles of short supply chains and promote short transport routes and to seek local food supplies and to increase self-sustainment through a healthy way of eating with locally produced food. We maintain a negative attitude towards genetically modified organisms and possible aspirations for the privatisation of water resources. And we're more than held back to these questions. The political definition of free trade agreements between the European Union and third countries will also be very important. In view of the content of these agreements, Slovenia must provide a position, and this is important that negotiations on these agreements should be transparent and should not be contrary to national interest and to the detriment of the domestic economy. We expect the Government to keep us up to date on the procedures and content in this area and to allow for discussion before any binding documents are adopted. Members of the Social Democrats Group will support the proposal for a declaration on guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union from July 2014 to December 2015. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u19	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u20	Dear Mr President, the honourable Council of Ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, thank you for the floor. There are only two things I'd like to say about the declaration. Firstly, this declaration, with its high-flying objectives, is nothing new and strongly reminds us of the two seriously failed Lisbon Strategy, which had similar high-flying objectives of economic growth, development, job creation, digital agendas, knowledge society and so on, and we have seen for the past ten years that we are longer than these objectives, but the response of the Government and the European Commission is simple to extend the deadlines for them. The second point to be pointed out is that Slovenia's position on this declaration reflects the surviving ideologies that even institutions such as the IMF are developing today. So obviously we didn't learn anything from the crisis. However, I will spend a few minutes on the problem of the part which I think is most harmful in the short term, this is support for the free trade agreements of TISA, CETA and TTIP as defined in this declaration. Here Slovenia has a very naive position because it advocates the early conclusion of these agreements for an unknown reason. naive and illogical — Why? Firstly, even an economic study commissioned by the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology at the Centre for Business Excellence of the Faculty of Economics notes that: for the first time, the impact on Slovenian GDP by these agreements will be negative; for the second time, that there is probably a risk of job cuts in Slovenia; for the third time, that these agreements do not meet Slovenia's own economic interests, for example, in the field of automotive industry, pharmacy and generic medicines, which are key sectors for the Slovenian economy. Why – because in all these cases competition will get tighter and our companies will have problems. Last but not least, this same study notes that the extremely problematic lack of knowledge of Slovenian companies on the TTIP negotiations can lead potentially to the unpreparedness of Slovenian companies to tight competition and can therefore lead to additional secondary negative effects on the Slovenian economy. Studies by foreign independent institutions and even the European Commission's position in the case of jobs make it clear that we are at risk of losing, even between 400 000 and a million 100,000 jobs in Europe. So we're going to lose about as many jobs as Juncker's strategy is supposed to be able to achieve if it ever miraculously manages to make 300 billion for investment. In order to support this further, the European Commission warned itself before the first round of negotiations that the TTIP would likely bring about a long-term and extensive migration of European jobs, as companies will encourage them to turn to products and services from those US federal countries where lower labour standards are in place than in Europe and trade rights are almost non-existent. They already have that kind of experience in the United States. In fact, similar to the NAFTA free trade agreement concluded between the USA, Canada and Mexico in 1994, it similarly promised the creation of new jobs and turned out to be the opposite. The Washington Economic Policy Institute has shown that NAFTA has actually lost more than a million jobs during the first 12 years of existence in the United States and has also significantly reduced the wages of several million additional workers. These are the consequences of free trade agreements if they are accepted with countries where lower labour and social standards apply. Therefore, TTIP, CETA and TISA are an exceptional threat to the Slovenian economy and to labour rights in general. Another issue which is extremely problematic in these agreements is the investor-country dispute resolution mechanism, the so-called ISDS mechanism. This mechanism means that an arbitral tribunal will be established in which corporations investing in a country can sue that country if they realise that any measures have an impact on their income or profits. Now, if I make a specific case. If, for example, some foreign insurance company bought the Triglav Insurance Company, if Slovenia, as we have recently done, accepted the insurance tax, this foreign insurance company could now sue this arbitral tribunal of the state of Slovenia for the loss of income. Of course, it doesn't apply the other way around. And the state can't sue corporations. In short, this ISDS arbitration mechanism will definitively push or subordinate States to the interests of international capital and is also an additional matter which the Republic of Slovenia should necessarily question in this agreement or this declaration. And the third thing. It should be noted that consumer protection, or the very fact that the TISA, CETA and TTIP agreements are not simply free trade agreements, since customs between the US and the European Union are already minimal in most cases, but are in fact the removal of administrative barriers, with administrative barriers usually representing environmental, social and labour standards established for such and other reasons of protection or of workers, or consumers, or the environment. This is called administrative obstacles, as is often the case with us, but in fact this means, if I illustrate the case of the food industry, the following. In the United States, for example, more than 70% of all processed foods currently sold in stores contain genetically modified ingredients. This has not occurred in Europe because of the resistance of Member States and the resistance of European parliamentarians, but it is clear, and this is confirmed by John Hillary's study, which has been following this negotiations since the very beginning, that American companies are lobbying heavily, that legislation on genetically modified food will change in Europe and that American companies could also start selling genetically modified organisms to these markets. That's another thing. For example, more than 90% of American beef is produced using bovine growth hormone, which some studies have found to be related to human cancer. As a result, restrictions on imports of beef have been in place in Europe since 1988. Again: the US government and the American food industry are lobbying within the negotiations on these agreements to remove this administrative obstacle. And for the third time, American chicken and turkey meat producers routinely process the birds before selling to consumers with chlorine. This process was also banned in Europe for a reason in 1997 because it is harmful to health. It is also intended to remove this administrative obstacle through free trade agreements. In short, these free trade agreements between Europe and the United States are anti-democratic because countries will subject themselves to final international capital, international capital will even have an adversarial right if countries influence its revenues in one way or another, jobs will be destroyed because free trade agreements are adopted with countries where they have significantly lower labour and environmental standards, and consumer protection will be removed by means of administrative barriers at a substantially lower level than it is now. In the United Left, we therefore, of course, oppose the adoption of these trade agreements, while also rejecting the views expressed by the Republic of Slovenia in this declaration because they are simply harmful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u21	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Here comes the debate on the supplementary proposal for a declaration. Mrs. Marinka Levičar, Desus, has the floor. Prepare Mr Jožef Horvat, Nova Slovenija.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u22	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President, and once again a nice greeting to all. I must point out that I agree with all the essential definitions of the declaration. But it's always easier to write something down than then to implement it. I therefore hope that we will not have any particular problems in implementing this declaration and that we will be consistent and successful. The wider Slovenian public is outraged by fraud and tax evasion, as it is an important generator of the crisis, the consequences of which must be paid by honest and innocent citizens. I am therefore pleased that the fight against fraud and tax evasion is among the European Union's priorities in the tax area and that the initial steps that Slovenia supports in this area have already been taken, as they will ultimately benefit all of us. The crisis has led to an increase in the number of poor people in Slovenia between 2008 and 2012, from 12.3% to 13.5%, which is more than 1%. In the same period, however, even more than the situation of the whole population and even more so than the number of poor in the European Union, the percentage of poverty among children has increased among us. We need to think about this first of all, Members, and Government, what we are going to do. I therefore propose to the Government and the competent ministries that they prepare an analysis as soon as possible and an appropriate strategy to combat poverty for all citizens, for children and for all categories of citizens. According to my view, the last such analysis or strategy against poverty was made in 2000. Well, there was no crisis at the time. I therefore ask the Government to prepare this analysis and strategy and to discuss it and take measures to combat poverty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u23	Mr Jožef Horvat, New Slovenia, has the floor to prepare Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker, SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Once again a very nice greeting for everyone! I'm sure you all know that New Slovenia - Christian Democrats, that we are an extremely pro-European political party, may also have won the first European elections, and finally Europe is actually the one that is somehow created and based on Christian foundations. When we talk about values, I think we need to renew and rethink what the fathers of Europe were thinking when they were setting up the European Union. The European Union wants to promote humane and progressive values and to ensure that humanity is in control of the current major global changes, not that it will be a victim of them. Human needs cannot be met by market forces alone or determined by unilateral action by individual countries. This is how the European Union advocates the values of humanity and the social model supported by the vast majority of citizens. Europeans appreciate their rich heritage of values, which includes the protection of human rights, social solidarity, free entrepreneurship, the fair distribution of the fruits of economic growth, the right to a protected environment, respect for cultural, linguistic and religious diversity, and a coordinated co-existence of tradition and progress. What exactly is the European Union's mission for today or for the 21st century? At six points, I'm going to bring this mission down. To preserve and strengthen peace between its Member States – peace is not a day by itself, peace is a fundamental value and we must all strive for peace. Connecting European countries with practical cooperation, ensuring that European citizens can live in a secure environment – security. If there is no security, then, ladies and gentlemen, for free the great Juncker investment package, the fourteen-fifteen Jucker package is supposed to represent private, private capital. He's a shy bird. He won't go where there's no safe environment. Fourth time. To promote economic and social solidarity, to preserve European identity and diversity in a globalised world, to promote the common values of Europeans. The European Union is therefore a union that connects us to the same values.We are not a bad union of nations and nations. We're the best group. So I want us to have a little bit more optimism when we look at [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u25	Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker, SMC, has the floor to prepare Mr Tillen Christmas, SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u26	Thank you so much for your words, Mr President! As such, the country must act in accordance with the guidelines it has set up in relation to the European Union, as well as the general foreign policy, regardless of the time and situation in which it is located. I believe it is essential to maintain the framework that we have set ourselves. Our country's orientations in both internal and broader internal and foreign policies are a key potential for achieving national prosperity. The declaration before us, although prepared last year, was sent to the National Assembly in accordance with the report last November and should be valid, as it is also referred to in the proposed title, from July of last year to December of this year. In view of the late acceptance of this declaration that we have before us, we must also take the European elections last year and the European Commission's associated assembly. It is also necessary to take into account national elections in the National Assembly, which have also disrupted a number of processes. In particular, I would like to point out here that the past periods in Slovenia were not or did not want to be excessively strategically oriented. The last concrete foreign policy objective I remember best was the integration of Slovenia into different structures, as did the European Union. We have committed ourselves to accepting the conditions and commitments of the community that the Mira Cerar government and this national assembly wish to keep. But there are many challenges ahead of us, such as the already mentioned and sang European Commission investment package, the investment package and, of course, the European funds that we want to follow and meet in Mira Cerar's client. If I return to the declaration under consideration, it covers most of the existing and also future guidelines in accordance with the European Commission programme. The document, however, is a solid example of the cross-cutting action of ministries within the institutions of the European Union. Given that it has been a long time under consideration, and this document before us has been dealt with in all the working bodies of the National Assembly and has also passed most of the vote – most of it, it is unanimous – I think it is appropriate that we also confirm it today and, I hope, that we will start doing it as soon as possible or should. However, in this place, as Chairman of the competent committee, the Committee on European Union Affairs, I can say that we will begin the next declaration very quickly, in the first half of this year, because our engagement in the institutions of the European Union seems to be crucial to our common foreign policy path.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u27	Mr Tilen Christmas, SMC, has the floor to prepare Mr Simon Zajc, SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. My debate will somehow hold around two points; first, it is some constructive criticism of this declaration that we have before us, and second, it concerns the amendment concerning the agreements already mentioned, CETA, TTIP. As far as constructive criticism is concerned, in my view, given that Slovenia is young, small and that it is also a flexible country, it could afford slightly more freshness, perhaps a little more impact and progress within the declaration, especially in offering solutions that I believe the Republic of Slovenia has or can offer a few. I believe that it could also be more decisive in expressing its interests and, if it already has, say, some great weight in terms of its size, but it can, by linking with others who have somewhat comparable interests than the Republic of Slovenia, give these interests a slightly greater weight. If I go to the area of finance that is somehow closer to me, and also on the committee, we talked about this declaration and somehow expressed ourselves if I went to the interests; we advocate, say, monetary policy or monetary policy, which is mainly written by Germany and France, which is often not helpful to us. Slovenia is a small, open economy, it is said, our recessions are deeper, our conjunctures or periods, for example, prosperity or growth are more intense, so that this kind of slow monetary policy response can in some way harm us and we support it. Here, as far as interests are concerned, I think it would make sense that in the declaration there are some proposals or solutions that might help us, a small country, in the sense of adapting monetary policy, perhaps some measures, including fiscal ones, to overcome this handicap that we gain from their monetary policy. So, Slovenia has some problems with financial business restructuring, we have problems with financing small and medium-sized enterprises. As far as progress is concerned, there are a number of new methods that are emerging, so we have microfinance, we have Crow Funding, some of our companies, I don't know, Chipolo, and they've taken advantage of it, they're making progress in European markets. Even if we look at Germany, Great Britain, etc., these systems are already somehow integrated, we don't yet have them and we don't use them. I think that in these documents we should also show our own degree of progress towards these trends, which can soon bring us good results and help our economy move faster out of this crisis. As far as re-interest or solution is concerned. We have a financial transaction tax that we support. This tax in its current form will bring us less than we will actually spend on it to implement it. In this case, I think that Slovenia should also say or advocate perhaps a different key of division in order to get more from this fund, says the financial transaction tax, in order to maybe deal with it – to extend the tax base, it is said, to extend to all derivatives and not only to some financial instruments, etc. Thus, in the debate, it has also come to the conclusion that the Government has somehow agreed with at least some of the issues and I believe that in the future this cooperation will also be more intensive and that at least some of them will be in future declarations – let me note that we are now talking only about guidelines by the end of 2015 – that they will also be taken into account. As for then, the amendment concerning TTIP or CETA. It is a transatlantic trade and investment partnership agreement, TTIP, and it is a transatlantic cooperation with Canada, it is said, this agreement on integrated, economic and trade cooperation – CETA. In this regard, I have proposed an amendment in which some comments have been made, and has accordingly adapted at the meeting. In particular, his direction was that the public was a lack of information; we were not informed in the National Assembly about the many matters involved. Slovenia, of course, supports the TTIP, but under the condition that we will maintain these standards, which we have already achieved in the European Union area, so that this process will continue to be transparent – it has been kept secret so far – and that the National Assembly will be informed accordingly. However, as regards the CETA agreement, a presentation in the National Assembly will be made before the ratification to analyse the consequences this agreement will have for Slovenia. The amendment was adopted by 11 votes to one. On this subject, then, the United Left made its amendment. Here I should point out that, as far as the TISE mentioned in this declaration is concerned, I have not noticed that this would be discussed. I think that this agreement is not yet in this declaration, but it will probably be in later times, as this agreement is currently only in some initial phase. As far as arbitration is concerned, because it was said earlier about CETA and TTIP. With regard to TTIP, it is somehow a conversation in this direction that would not even be in there, about CETA talks are still ongoing, but not in the same rigid way as previously presented by colleagues. Thus, their amendment was very similar or presented on the same subject, noting only the essential differences. Thus, there is the conclusion that the procedures so far have been far from the public's eyes, that they have been untransparent, that we somehow agree, it has been in the media, so I do not think it is necessary for such a matter to be described in a declaration. After the inclusion of the general public, there are concerns that we agree to a certain extent, the ministry has also committed itself to involving the public. After all, they put the website on the subject, and debates or discussions with NGOs began. I still think, as far as the work of the National Assembly is concerned, we are the first to do our work and not put it on citizens. I agree, however, that they must be properly informed and, if necessary, give their opinion to integrate into such agreements. As for CETA and this conclusion, it is not intended to bring economic growth and so on. In fact, the National Assembly has not been familiar with this analysis yet, so it is difficult for us to put some suggestions in my terms to enter into an agreement if one thing is expressed in half. So she came, but we didn't say it, we didn't study it, we didn't take a position that we could then somehow communicate together to the government as a weighty one, and then take it into account. As far as the amendment of the United Left is concerned, I don't support it in any way. However, I support the one I have presented, in particular because I think it solves the essential problems that we have already addressed: this is the case with regard to transparency and respect for the standards that have already been achieved, and this is also crucial for the interests of the Republic of Slovenia to be represented in these agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u29	Mr Simon Zajc, SMC, has the floor. Let's get Dr. Jones ready. Franz Duck, United Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members of the Council of Ministers! In my opinion, the Declaration is a welcome document, given that Slovenia is a member of the European Union and that everything that is adopted at European Union level is then directly affecting our lives. A large part of European policy, however, is agricultural policy and also a large part of the money that comes from the European budget in Slovenia comes to us because of the agricultural sector. It is therefore very important what position Slovenia will take in the field of agriculture. It is important that we keep our food healthy and safe and that Slovenia is very loud when there is an attempt to reduce the standards already in force in the European Union. Here I have in mind both genetically modified organisms and cloned animals and their offspring and various meat treatments that are not allowed in the EU, where they are elsewhere, and now through various trade and similar agreements they want to impose on our markets. Here Slovenia must be very careful and very loud that this does not happen. I see this happening, and Slovenia also advocates that Member States themselves must have the right to prohibit GMOs in their territory. The second thing that's very important is reducing red tape. Above all, as regards the new common agricultural policy in the field of environmental protection, this bureaucracy has become too abundant and completely non-lifelike, so that farmers do not decide on these measures at all because they are essentially so aggregated that they cannot be held together. Here, too, Slovenia is already raising its voice and it is already pointing to the nonsense of bureaucracy, and this is also in the declaration, and I think it is good that it is in there. Problems are expected in the milk sector, where the situation will need to be stabilised due to the abolition of milk quotas and the ban on exports to Russia. Slovenia must be active here because we are already producing more milk than we are using, and we are importing dairy products. We must also be aware of the specificity of our agriculture. Our farms are much smaller than European farms, and most farms operate in areas where the use of space is limited. This is not what other countries are meeting with, and we must bear in mind when a new regulation on organic farming and labelling of organic crops is being adopted, so that our farmers will not be at a disadvantage again. The forest strategy will be adopted. Slovenia is a very forest country and here our voice must be heard. In this declaration itself, the area of forestry is very modest, probably because Europe does not have its own common forest policy, but I think that Slovenia should place more emphasis here. What I like very much and what is generally, when I talk about agriculture and the European Union, is too little, however, is that the declaration states that Slovenia will advocate for the care of seeds or reproduction material, which is very important for each agriculture. Especially if we know what kind of appetites the multinationals have after patenting the seeds. One more thing will follow, and this is the adoption of a common fisheries policy. This is mentioned in the declaration and it is very important that Slovenia does not forget our small fishermen, who can be harmed by such a common fisheries policy if we do not pay attention. The declaration, especially in this part, seems good to me. Of course, this is not the only document that will guide us within the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u31	The word is from Dr. Franz Duck, United Left. Get Mr. Marko Ferruga ready, SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! Most of this in relation to free trade matters was said by Comrade Luka. I'll have two comments first. Well, actually, there's only one. The colleague of Christmas from SMC spoke to Tobin's tax, so-called, which was supposed to regulate these speculations a little bit more. There was almost an agreement at EU level, and then our Minister Cuffer vetoed it and somehow it didn't go over. A colleague from Nova Slovenije spoke about Europe and the beginning of Europe. If we go back a little bit, where Europe starts, what is the greatness of Europe – Iliad, who is now playing in Cankar's home. Europe begins with blood, Europe begins with war, and Europe is currently a little empty about how and what answers. It's very good for Lorenzo to illustrate that, too. I'm sorry I haven't looked at Iliad yet. I hope I will. It wouldn't hurt us all in a row, and we need to be aware of that. That doesn't mean we're going to become suicidal, which means we have to find some optimism in this empty space. If I touch the declaration myself, I've already talked about it here twice on the boards, because we're a party, if I put it that way, and I'm going to repeat myself a little. With this declaration I have crazy problems at two levels; one is at the level of the form itself; the other is also somehow at the level of content. On one committee, I provoked some lady from Youth to say that she was fine, but the legislation is like that, we have to introduce it to you and that's kind of it. This is also evident in this document. I'm not going to say that one ministry is doing worse, the other ministry is doing better, they're one more literate, they're the other, but in this declaration you can kind of see a little bit, I'm going to use the Dalmatian word which ministries are more "mild" than not. This is somehow seen in this declaration. But there's something on the content level that bothers me more than anything I've said here. I've analyzed this declaration. I've read it three times. I had a feeling it was that radio show The listeners congratulated and greeted. This is the most common formulation in this declaration: "Slovenia welcomes, Slovenia supports". My colleague Christmas has started this topic a little bit, we are relatively young, we are barely good at puberty, the hormonal state, I hope we have calmed down, and now we should start to wonder what is after all with this Slovenia and what is finally with this Slovenia in the European Union and not just in the European Union. We have an embassy all over Africa! Please, let's go then – what? – economic diplomacy somehow! In the entire text, with the exception of a few interests, Luka Koper, which has a specific feature, plus a little bit of aluminium production, plus a few agricultural issues and then it stops. Everything else is actually some absolutely unambitious copy-paste that makes me, to put it mildly, sad. Somehow it turned out in the United Left that I did most of the interparliamentary bilaterals, societies, friendships and so on. When I talk to colleagues from other parliaments, when I talk to people from diplomacy, I suddenly realized that – you forget a little in the 15 years that people have gone to, a lot of people are in Brussels from this country – this declaration reflects what they would like me to do. I think we need to answer that. Commissioner Bulcheva spoke in this direction, and this is not what I see in this declaration. I would be very happy that this declaration is half smaller, that this declaration has a tail and head, that every citizen who has completed the first two triads of the elementary school in Slovenia has a clear position in the European Union, not just in the European Union, and what will be done in this medium-term period of the year and a half. This declaration somehow does not give these answers, probably because we have not even started them in the right way. Another document, which I am just reading about in this House, and I am very lonely, is that famous smart specialty. It's a similar story. If we go to that draft, it's unreadable again, it's a little overthinking again. It seems to me that on the whole spectrum, from the radical right of SDS to the radical left of the United Left, we should finally begin to talk about these essential things, because otherwise – you know, as I do a very beautiful song by the Russian ship: "... Timun my habit of bizi..." In short, we're going somewhere and somehow we don't know where we're going. Because of the fact that some of the essential things that are problematic about which Luke was talking about and because of the fact that this is a rather non-personal text, of course, I cannot support such declarations. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u33	Mr. Marko Ferruga, SMC, has the floor. Get Mr. Uroš Prikl ready, Desus.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! As we speak of the declaration, it is clear to us in the National Assembly, and the fact is that this declaration is written for a very short period of time, which is why this short-term and targeted orientation is even more necessary. This must certainly be linked to the clear and long-term interests of Slovenia. Here I would like to take the initiative to call on all ministries and, above all, the responsible Ministry of Foreign Affairs to start already preparing a new strategy for the next years for the functioning of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union. This will also, clearly, be helped by this new declaration on Slovenia's foreign policy, which we now have in public debate and which already has some positive responses. Clearly, we also expect a strategy on foreign policy soon. As a member of the SMC and of the Foreign Policy Committee, I would like the competent ministry to truly act proactively in all the institutions of the European Union towards the welfare of Slovenian interests and, I repeat, truly in the interests of Slovenia, to avoid removing the interests of the European Union and all major players. If I limit myself only to an external policy or declaration describing the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in institutions for foreign policy, I would like to say the following. On the basis of the Europe 2020 strategy, Slovenia's work must lead towards higher economic growth, clear, greater competitiveness and thus improve the labour market and social situation; not only with us, but also with Europe. In this declaration, however, I see the correct orientation of Slovenian interests in becoming even more ambitious, more proactive in working in regional relations. What I mean is the Alpine regions, the Adriatic-Ionian regions, the Danube and the Multi-urban groups. I think that Slovenia has an exceptional opportunity and opportunity, because it operates in all three regions listed, to act as one of the leading members to give pace and direction. Of course, if we want to do this ourselves and we can do it. As we know, our country is at the crossroads of important links, so much traffic, which we must be aware of, in relation to what Mr Trček also said; it is said that Luka Koper must be the heart of everything. And here's our basic interest, and if we don't realize it right now, then I think we've lost some future. Already, everyone in the European institutions is telling us that we have been doing the same thing for 20 years. And also the previous debate, which was held at the Faculty of Maritime Affairs in Portorož, I think yesterday, also the ambassadors of Austria, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia said: the second track – Just do it! We have to make him! There are no more dilemmas here! And this is where we have to go! As regards the other interests Slovenia has, which must be clearly expressed and also demonstrated in the institutions of the European Union, the focus is on neighbouring countries and the Western Balkans. We have somehow abandoned it, somehow forgotten it, but I think that this region is both geopolitical and economically important. Here, we need to further direct our action. Furthermore, implementation of the European Neighbourhood Policy is fundamental. I think this is a very important matter and that here Slovenia has as such, I will say, not the central European state, but the regional state has very great potential to exercise its interests. The Eastern neighbourhood is important, enlargement is going in this direction, so here we can find our political and economic opportunities and opportunities for success and expansion, because in the Slovenian market itself we have in fact now observed after these 20 years that we cannot survive. Here I would stress once again what we might forget and in view of this situation, which is a crisis; we must not forget the relations between the Russian Federation and the former Russian socialist countries, which are also important, because we can also draw certain interests from them. So I am talking about the economy and again in the direction of economic diplomacy. European Neighbourhood Policy, and I will end it, and I think it is one of the most important keys, and here I see a good opportunity to increase Slovenia's power, as well as to increase its reputation in foreign policy and visibility itself, and thus we can contribute our share in the institutions of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u35	Mr Uroš Prikl, Desus, has the floor to prepare the mag. Margareta Guček Zakošek, SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u36	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! Of course, I understand the declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in institutions and so on and so on – it is said that a long document with a long name – especially as a key document for the tasks and orientations that Slovenia will follow in its operation in the institutions of the European Union. A relatively short period of time is owed to us, resulting from this declaration, and that is almost six months past, for what reasons we know. Therefore, the document must be understood as a reference and, above all, as a gabarite, as a basis, as a framework, as a framework for driving our economic, both external, both defence and health, especially employment, family and social policy, in which it would stop for a moment. I think that it is essential for the Member States and the EU as a whole to focus their most attention on their efforts to achieve the objectives of the EU 2020 strategy in particular. To support the achievement of both employment and social objectives, a number of activities identified by Member States in national development programmes will be carried out at national and EU level. Slovenia, and this is very commendable, will continue to work actively to bring 75% of the active population aged 20 to 64 closer to that target by 2020, and this will, unfortunately, start to decline significantly. Let me remind you or remind you, a few days ago, we had a thematic session on the Committee on Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons on the theme of the crisis in Europe, the real stagnation, the economic crisis had an impact on the situation, with an emphasis on the situation of children. The results are alarming. The number of poor children has increased significantly. The number of children, and also the total population under the poverty risk line, has increased significantly, and in fact it is last time to stop these trends, to stop us from moving forward and to take the path of uplifting trends and simply allow prosperity for all citizens, with emphasis on children. The unacceptable high unemployment of young people, and I am interestingly coming from Desus, and we are also deeply concerned about this in Desus, has serious social consequences and could also have serious long-term consequences for the affected and the dynamics of the European economy. This is why the fight against youth unemployment must become a major and EU priority. The colleague said that the implementation of the Youth Guarantee was already taking place and improving transitions from school to work. It seems essential to us, of course, that we focus on so young, so-called 30 minus, a few measures in this area have been declared and also in practice already implemented. We also think it is essential that we approach the measures for the so-called 50 plus, these are those unemployed, the age category, when it loses its job, is in a rather unenviable position and is virtually unemployable. Nor should we forget and devote a number of measures here to improve people's material position and employment. In the context of measures for new opportunities for growth in the Single Market, Slovenia will continue to support efforts to improve workers' mobility. Low mobility of qualified experts in the EU and better coordination of labour market supply and demand are among the key challenges both for Europe and, of course, for Slovenia. In Desus, we also expect to continue working on the proposal for a directive on gender balance in non-executive management positions of listed companies and related measures. The goals here are quite clear. By 2020, 40% of women's presence in non-executive executive positions and 33% of women's representation in all executive and non-executive management positions of listed companies should be achieved. A very simple goal, but still because of the facts that are at the moment, I think it's also very bold, but we have to go after it. Slovenia also supports the European Commission's efforts to combat black work as defined in the Proposal for a Decision of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a European Platform to strengthen cooperation in preventing and deter undeclared work. The objective of the platform will contribute to better implementation of legislation at EU and national level, limiting work to a line, creating formal jobs without deterioration of the quality of work and integrating into the labour market and social inclusion. We also want to be proactive in the area of the Directive on the introduction of measures to promote improvements in the safety and health of pregnant workers and workers who have recently given birth and breast-feeding. We believe that the results or orientations in this Directive can be a good platform for further improvement of ours, and I believe that at this time relatively good family policies. Last but not least: the implementation of commitments to promote gender equality and to strengthen protection against all must be continued, but indeed against all forms of discrimination. Slovenia supports the strengthening of gender mainstreaming in the EU 2020 strategy, with particular emphasis on the integration of women in the labour market, the elimination of pay differentials between women and men, the overcoming of stereotypes in education, poverty reduction, the coordination of professional and family life and gender equality in response to the economic and financial crisis. At the conclusion, colleagues and colleagues, as we say, the declaration is a framework, it is a guide. Many things can be written down, many things have been written down, and many things may be easily read. What is essential is how we will actually understand this and how we will implement the guidelines set out in the declaration into practice. Here is our task to do our best to achieve the objectives set for the implementation of the declaration, for the benefit of the better policy of the country of Slovenia, and in particular for the benefit of all citizens and citizens of Slovenia concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u37	The word has magic. Marjeta Guček Zakošek, SMC. Prepare Mr Matjaž German, SD.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Council of Ministers, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I can relate to my predecessor and predecessors that it is true that this declaration actually covers a very short period, which we cannot call a strategic period, but all the discussions, all the debates and all the reflections that we have made on the committees in this hour and hour, I believe that the Government will help with what we urgently need, which is the strategy of the Republic of Slovenia. We are also committed to this strategy because regardless of which government will run this country in four years' time, eight years from now, it will have to follow it and the declaration is the political basis for these strategic issues. The two documents that we have already submitted to the European Commission before are a genuine partnership agreement and an operational plan, with 11 priority axes. This is where we have already identified ourselves where we want to be and as a country we are part of the EU by 2020, and that is a fact. As far as the economy is concerned, the President himself has mentioned that we have basically committed ourselves to development goals, to economic growth, to promoting greater competitiveness and to improving the situation in the labour market. These are key points that we need to discuss if we are to make progress. Strengthening Europe's single market is important for Slovenia, as Slovenia is highly dependent on the European market in both export and import terms. I would also mention the commitment to measures promoting research and development and indicate to the Government a little discretion in commitments. We have committed ourselves to earmarking 3% of GDP for research and development. Let me say that we have already reached almost 3% in 2012; in 2008, 2013 we fell to 2.53%; data for 2014 is expected to be closer to 2% than 3%. In short, please think about this objective and take appropriate action in the integrated budgets or other strategies. Special protection is intended for consumers. I agree with Mr Rabbit, consumer confidence indicators must be high if we are to promote economic growth, because economic growth is important and also dependent on consumption. Consumers must nevertheless be protected in this market, and this declaration is also somehow defined by clearer rules for economic operators, as well as all their obligations to consumer protection, especially when entering into TTIP, CETA, etc. agreements. What I would like to stress in particular is small and medium-sized enterprises. In the declaration, we commit ourselves to reducing administrative burdens and we must move on this path. Slovenia is a small country and our advantage is small; that is, small and medium-sized enterprises, and the advantage is in flexibility. If we erase this flexibility with the administration, we've done nothing. These small and medium-sized enterprises last deal with regulations instead of dealing with what is our advantage. Our advantage is innovation and we are one of the major innovations in the world. Let us leave this innovation to spark and Slovenia must help this by making this commitment to the Small Business Act excellent. I hope we're really going to give these companies a start. In short, there's something else I'd like to mention. This is a modern industrial policy, which is linked to the energy concept of Slovenia, how much energy we will need in the future, as well as the protection of the environment. The Declaration is important. It's a basic orientation. But I appeal to the government to build on everything from this declaration. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] further programmes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u39	Thank you. Mr Matjaž Germany has the floor to prepare Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, my friend! In its principle, the European Union has been created primarily to preserve peace, as we would say, on an old continent. In fact, if in the past, I am talking about the past centuries, especially within the continent of our opponents, today this union, this creation of different countries, in particular, works together or has to act uniformly because it can compete with greater, stronger forces or more promising forces, such as the United States of America, is rapidly increasing the power of China or Russia. And in some ways these declarations, documents, treaties, acts that prevent individual countries within this Union from expressing or exposing national interest in the common European Union. In some ways, these declarations or acts mean that each year, every period, we check whether the European Union is on the right track, if it enforces its policy, if it preserves its interests, particularly those of the weaker, smaller countries. Social Democrats in this declaration see some of the key or more important aspects that have been taken into account. Here I am primarily talking about cooperation in higher education institutions with the economy in the transformation and implementation of student programmes. We support, in particular, the declaration of intent, that the number of poor, socially excluded and weaker will be successfully reduced. In particular, we support sustainable use of resources. Here we are talking about ecology, in this respect the European Union is still maintaining a global primate. I'd like to point out a reliable food supply. We know that self-sustainment is becoming one of the key needs of global importance. This is where I must focus on the efforts of our Minister. In a way, we find that this ministry is becoming increasingly important in this global world when self-sustainment becomes of some primary importance. Very much, as we have already said in our statement, we are reserved for possible challenges, particularly with regard to the privatisation of water resources and the enforcement of genetically modified organisms. Here I can say that if this happens, in our country we will have to seriously consider whether we are part of the right, I will say, political orientation. The Social Democrats within this, too, will be defending our views on what will be the price. But these declarations in some way only check the situation, but they do not affect people's well-being directly, like, the last intentions of the European Central Bank following the purchase of bonds, or the 315-billion-billion-dollar Juncker stimulus package, or, for example, the possible exit of Greece from the European Union and the fate of its debt. Social Democrats within this declaration support, above all, the aspirations for an active employment policy, because in employment itself, our social security and our well-being also begin somewhere. Thus, in our principle, we welcome the intentions, we would like this to be even more in the future and, above all, that the European Union would find a relationship to foreign policy that would be its own and that would not give the impression that, I will say, this alliance with Western countries is just some kind of tool that the larger countries, more powerful than us or the smaller ones, are just exploiting themselves. This is precisely what these declarations make impossible and promote equality within the European family. It will enable us to maintain peace and prosperity on our continent as well. We therefore support the declaration and hope that it will be even more effective in the future. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u41	Thank you. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has the floor to prepare Mr Benedict Kopmajer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u42	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues! The very expression of the declaration means that it should be a document on individual issues, important issues, which, last but not least, this declaration should be. It is for the National Assembly to adopt fundamental policy guidance on strategic issues that Slovenia will face in further decision-making in the process of adopting legislative and other acts of the European Union. But at the outset it will be obvious that this so-called strategic document on our decisions will be taken in the future for a period to come. Although this has been pointed out by the Slovenian Democratic Party already on the home committee. But that's not exactly what anyone wanted to hear. So a document, a declaration that is intended to be aimed at the future and not at the past tense, should be called a report. It wouldn't be bad if we had a report. Last but not least, the previous declaration also recorded a number of things that would be worth considering and looking at where we are today, in fact, all of us. At the very least, I would expect the proposal for a declaration submitted by the Government to the National Assembly to be an ambitious document; added value, step forward if you would like. Even compared to that declaration that was accepted before it. This, unfortunately, is not the case, and you know, this should primarily concern us about what we actually accept. Already on the individual competent committees where we have addressed this government proposal for text, we have pointed out that the document is not only materially flawed, but is its problem, unfortunately, also in authenticity. The fact is that, while the amendments have already been proposed on the committees themselves, this time I think that there are about 12 new amendments proposed in the debate. What will this final text be like, I wonder, and in all this, it is really interesting that these proposals came mostly from the coalition. Justifiably, you know, I wonder if this is not a matter that we could agree on before you submitted this proposal to the National Assembly. Last but not least, it's your government, and today we've even heard a few critical words from the biggest party on the document itself. One gets the feeling that it is primarily about the importance of quantity, the document is about as thick as the document before, but the content itself is about the fact that it was in a subordinate position. It would also be logical for the coalition to make the substantive proposals now proposed in the form of amendments only somehow communicate with each other and that individual Members do not talk about their amendments, but to somehow check these matters together and give some uniform text. However, if we have really waited for this document for so long and have practically been late for more than half a year, then at least one would expect it to have a European Commission legislative or work programme for 2015. You didn't want to hear that either. It is strange that Slovenia, which so desires from the crisis, which thus wants to do good for the citizens, somehow does not find such documents important, as we will accept them in some future period when others will realize them in some way. Let me also, as I mentioned earlier, touch a bit of authenticity or I must say, regrettably, the inauthenticity of the proposed declaration. For example, in the area of justice, where virtually all indicators show that we have serious problems and that we should roll up our sleeves as soon as possible. Here one would expect, and certainly also citizens and citizens, some strong, striking text. Of course, there is no striking text, but the inauthenticity is evidenced by records that are virtually identical to the records of the previous declaration. So the proposalr didn't think it was worth a word to at least make it look like someone had tried. In all of this there is some concern, a gap between the text we are sending to the European Union and what we are really doing at home. In Brussels, for example, we say that judicial procedures must be as cheap as possible. Sounds great, doesn't it? But what is the truth? The Slovenian reality is that our citizens, all together, pay for the functioning of justice 86 euros and the rest of Europe on average 42 euros, even good 3 euros in Norway. So much for the most expensive justice. We are sending something to the European Union, and we are doing something else at home – however, it is only a document. We also write that in the criminal field Slovenia is committed to strengthening mutual trust between the judicial authorities between countries. Yeah, that's nice! Then what about the Balkan warrior? Is this perhaps an example of strengthening and better mutual cooperation? This is also our important message. The gap between the proposed declaration and the actual situation was also addressed by some other competent authorities, including the Foreign Policy Committee, regarding the situation in the area of neighbourhood relations and the strengthening of economic cooperation. It's an extremely important area, and you know, such passages really shouldn't happen. However, that the text was practically written almost a year ago, it also proves quite a few flowers in a document that could be found first in the original; like the one that speaks, for example, of the fact that it is 10 years since Slovenia joined the European Union this year, although we all know that we are in 2015 and that it is 11 years later. You know, we're funny! In a way, however, we can all imagine together what kind of document this national assembly will send to some European institutions. All in attendance, all in attendance! Brussels is as far away from us as we allow or allow or better, we do it ourselves. The shift from words to action is what can reduce this distance. Writing one, working and making promises to the other, but doing quite a third, unfortunately this distance only increases. As long as this is the case, our love for Slovenia is not good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u43	Thank you. Mr Benedict Kopmajer has the floor to prepare Mr Roberto Battelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u44	Dear Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the ministries! Let me also touch on Slovenia's contribution to strengthening the Union as a credible global actor in the area of security and defence and of course civil protection among the key objectives of the proposal for a declaration. It is right that Slovenia, as a full member of the Union and NATO, will continue to participate in military operations and missions, especially in the Western Balkans, according to Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo, Mali and civilian experts in Afghanistan, and contribute to strengthening the EU-Nato strategic partnership. All of this gives us a reputation in the international community, but our contribution must be displayed and expressed in particular in the field of the European defence industry and the integration of our companies into this system. Here I would agree with my colleague, Trčko, who expects concrete solutions. Let me remind you in this place of companies that in the not so distant past have been able to make waves, vitals for tanks, measuring devices and more products and thus employ hundreds of workers. Where is all this knowledge now? I'm guessing it didn't just explode. We need to find him again, build on their knowledge and, most importantly, offer products or their components to the European defence industry. If we can do this, believe that it will be good for all of us. That is why I will also support the declaration in this part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u45	Thank you. The word has Mr. Luka Moon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. I would like to explain only the amendment tabled by the United Left coalition and the secret or trade agreements. That is why Slovenia supports the conclusion of the Agreement to the Transatlantic Partnership for Trade and Investment of TTIP, taking into account the preservation of environmental, social, labour, health and other standards, replaces by a stricter formulation, which reads as follows, "Slovenia supports the conclusion of all those agreements which, on the basis of economic analysis and impact assessments on society and the environment, bring economic growth and a general increase in social well-being", and to add, "that the CETA Agreement is now in the latest version", in the current form does not provide positive effects on society and the environment and does not bring economic growth and social well-being", which also shows studies on this agreement. Why we suggested this, I explained it earlier. Firstly, because studies show that jobs will be lost in Slovenia as a result. Secondly, that these agreements do not embody, do not take into account the economic interests of this country and, thirdly, that the effects on economic growth will be negative. Next. Studies at European Union level show that these trade agreements, namely TTIP and CETE, can cause up to one million jobs to be lost in Europe and the United States. Next. The impact on consumer protection and the protection of social rights will be negative. And last time, the most problematic in the whole story is the ISDS mechanism, which means the investor protection mechanism, according to which, as I explained earlier, state investors can sue if countries choose to amend legislation for such or other reasons. There are precedents for this in the world. For example, the Swedish energy company Vattenfall is currently suing the German government for €3.7 billion simply because, following the Fukushima disaster, Germany decided to start gradually abandoning nuclear energy. In Australia, we currently have a scandal with the tobacco company Philip Morris, who is suing the Australian government because it has decided, as part of its public health policy, that tobacco dealers must sell cigarettes in a single package. The same company, Philips Morris, had already received a similar lawsuit in Uruguay where they passed a law that health warnings should cover 80% of the area of a pack of cigarettes. In fact, similar matters have already received a worldwide epidemic ratio. Now known data have been received by corporations up to over 500 procedures against 95 countries, of which more than 400 in the last ten years. The agreements that Slovenia would support with this declaration or give a green light for their further adoption would put it at the level of some standard. Here I can only agree with Professor John Hilary, who found in his study that we can rightly understand that these agreements do not involve negotiations between two trading partners and competitors, but rather an attempt by transnational corporations to open new markets on both sides of the Atlantic and the existing ones subject to deregulation. And as it concludes, these documents are documents for deregulation, for assault on jobs and for the end of democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u47	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on behalf of the proposer, the government? No, no, no. Then we turn to the debate on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to the EU sub-chapter as a global actor and relations with strategic partners in the External Affairs and Defence chapter. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendment and the proposal for a declaration will be decided in full in accordance with the timing of the meeting today, as part of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 6th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Back, Flag and Hymn Republics of Slovenia and Slovenian National Flag. The draft law was tabled by a group of 21 Members and Members with first-signed Joe Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 21 Members and Members with the first-signed Jojo Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed Tomaž Lisec Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u48	Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, my friend! It's already the third attempt to amend the Law on Backs, Flags and anthems. In view of previous discussions in the National Assembly, we have changed a few things and added a few points. Again, the fundamental question before us is: are we a society of European values and awareness of the importance of our own country and its symbols, or are we still still glorifying past totalitarian symbols? The vote will show who wants a European-oriented country with its own symbols or a country that still lives in the past. The first of the aims of the law is to enforce the anthem of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with the Constitution. We do not eliminate unconstitutionality, but we just want the law to be in accordance with the Constitution. It is a matter of provision that the law, in accordance with the Constitution, as an anthem of our country, defines the Health Care. The hymna is supposed to take a certain form in the Constitution, i.e. the whole, on all Slovenian festive occasions, and compulsory at State celebrations at State holidays. So it's mandatory to perform the entire hymn at the national festivities, at the state Circus holidays 4 to 5 minutes a year. The government’s opinion in this law is essentially something in the sense that something has been introduced, has already become a practice and is not even necessary to change. Respectable to change; yes, if only a little will! The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is clear. He says, "The hymn of the Republic of Slovenia is Health", not the first, not the second, not the third, not the last. The hymna of the Republic of Slovenia is Zdravica. But more specifically, this is the law; the law that is before us. In the SDS, we are aware that some cases of implementation of the entire Prefecture could cause problems, particularly abroad, and therefore there is also a possibility of use in short form, which includes first the second and then the seventh rims of this song. Dear colleagues and colleagues, which one of us is not at least once, I hope that several times, in what direct transfer did he listen to the triumph of our athletes abroad and then joyfully join with the anthem of the Republic of Slovenia? But look at the fragment! One kitty is too short and there are two kitties used everywhere. Why is it always the seventh verse, but if we can sing the second one, which honors the Slovenian nation, then the seventh verse, which keeps all nations busy? For the first time in this law, we also set clear frameworks to prohibit the public magnification of all totalitarian regimes and their symbols. All of them! Rather, the use of their representatives and symbols is prohibited; that is, not the symbols of the left or right extremes, but of all totalitarian symbols and their representatives. I think we should all support this, according to our words. They will probably be against only those who mark the election of the Slovenian flag with extremist acts. The amendment of the law also further prohibits the use of the Slovenian anthem, coat of arms or flag in conjunction with the above mentioned totalitarian symbols. And we're adding exceptions. The fact that these prohibitions do not apply to education in accordance with the educational programme, to media information, to cultural events and to museum collections. The novelty in this law is also a mandatory outpouring of the flag in Ljubljana, each time the flag is lifted by the local community. Also new is the embroidery of the Slovenian flag at the Ljubljana Castle in that place and in the same size as all other flags. Since the current 1994 law also has the disadvantage of still defining criminal provisions in tolars, we are adding criminal provisions in euro, in the current currency, and, of course, we are also adding these criminal provisions with regard to the prohibition of the public magnification of all totalitarian regimes and their representatives and symbols. The law is no ideological entertainment, only a law that follows the ideas of France Prešern, Boris Pahor and the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Our view is that patriotism is part of every nation, every country, only in Slovenia, some are obviously still ashamed of it. We are also European specialties in this area. By what time will we be prisoners of debate about the past instead of respecting our symbols, our coat of arms, our anthem and our flag? They may not be the most beautiful symbols, but they are ours. In the SDS, we believe that the proposal for a law is a decisive basis for professional discussion and for the further adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u49	Thank you. For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Boris Koprivnikar, Minister of Public Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u50	President, honourable Members! Allow me to briefly present the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the draft law and, as my predecessor has already said, which is the basis for the debate, which has already been held several times in this esteemed assembly, and yet we have once again devoted ourselves to substantive issues and have taken certain positions which I will try to present very briefly. We believe that the Law on the coat of arms, flag and anthem of the Republic of Slovenia and on the Slovenian National flag is in accordance with the Constitution, because the hymn provides for the Constitution in Article 6 and the Constitution must also be interpreted by constitutional customs which form part of the European legal order and practice. However, with repeated repetitions of certain conduct, this or repeated repetition of such conduct can become a constitutional custom and part of the constitutional arrangement. In particular, it is worth mentioning that a flag exchange was also carried out at the ceremony at the time of independence, and the seventh kitula of Prešernová Zdravljica was used as an anthem before, and this was finally consolidated in several 20-year history of the country when such anthem was carried out at all official public events and celebrations. The established constitutional custom in the Slovenian constitutional system is that the Slovenian national anthem is the seventh kitica of Prešernovo Zdravljica, which was heard by Stanka Premrl. The second initiative concerns Article 3 of the proposal, which refers to the use of totalitarian symbols, the new Article 24. We believe that such regulation is non-systematic and does not fall under this law because the law on the use of symbols is also controversial in respect of respect for the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. We know Vajnai v Hungary in 2008, where the European Court of Justice also found that there had been an unjustified interference with the right of the complainant, then the Vice-President of the Hungarian Workers' Party, to his right to freedom of expression, because he then bore the symbol of the red star that was banned. In doing so, let me say that this provision is also disputed in terms of the implementation of the law, because we are talking about the category of totalitarian symbols or regimes, if you want to, which are not defined, and there will be a great problem with implementation, even if the fine, punishment is also provided for in this regard, but nowhere is it clear how to determine which symbol is actually a totalitarian symbol, especially because the use of different symbols can be multilayered and has changed throughout history, so the implementation of such a provision of the law will be a major problem. With regard to the proposal to expose the state flag in the same size to all flags of the local community of Ljubljana, we can find out that the law already provides that these flags are hanging on state buildings and that they can be extruded on other buildings and important monuments, but in fact, after the City Municipality of Ljubljana has explained that this practice is already being implemented, although it is not regulated by law, it is legally permissible, in fact implemented and we do not see any reason for it not to be implemented in the future, without explicitly regulating the law. With regard to sanctions, we believe that the bill is relatively strict because it is, I think, 18 times the current penalty. Again, I am returning to this problem that it will be very difficult to determine what the proposal for a specific sentence is. Let me conclude that the position is undoubtedly my and the government's own, that we must be very critical of totalitarian ideas. That we must understand that these are ideas that do not belong to a democratic society, but that are uncompromising persecution of some symbols that have a multi-layered history that are not explicitly defined, but that would mean a shift from this democracy, because also uncompromising persecution of certain symbols is a characteristic of regimes that are not democratic. Therefore, I believe that such a legal arrangement as proposed can actually lead in the opposite direction that we all want together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u51	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jani Möderndorfer, Alliance of Alenka Bratušek, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u52	Your Honor! We have before us a proposal for a law that has, in fact, come to the National Assembly several times, from the same applicants, with the same purpose, in the same way and with the same objectives. Of course, I must say that I am not very proud of their actions, but practice has shown in the last 25 years that the National Assembly has always had a sober head when it has decided on such important things as, last but not least, the identity of the Republic of Slovenia with its insignia, symbols, flag, coat of arms and everything else, which is part of it. Let me say that it has not really been a year since this same party actually proposed an identical law with identical proposals in the National Assembly, and there has already been a debate on things that will probably, I believe, end up exactly the same. However, in order to make it clear what things I am talking about, it is still necessary, at least they deserve this already because they are proposing and because they have put in procedural procedure a proposal for a law to respond to them in the same way that we already have. Let's do it in a row. In fact, the debate about the Doctor himself, the hymn as such, what is right and what is wrong, I have to say that it goes to the proponents – in fact, we can also say that we resent them because they are actually playing with themselves and they don't even know it. In fact, the proposal in which they wrote that it is really necessary to change the kitique or even use the Medici and, if necessary, use the second bouquet, is a bit funny, especially because those who actually know and have written and say to them that they can say that it's really this chick they're proposing that doesn't really reflect the Slovenes and the Slovenes, but the Slavonics. It internationalizes the whole concept as such, and therefore we see no reason why we would suddenly change this idea overnight, which, in fact, had already been established as part of the text we use in the anthem, had in fact been clarified a long time ago. The next question is also important, which is why, in fact, this same parliamentary group or political party always proposes these changes only when it is not in power. It's always only then. If we look at when she proposed this, we will see that this was on 6 March 2014 at the 22nd regular meeting, on 15 June 2011 at the 29th regular meeting of the National Assembly. Even at the time of her four-year term, it is said that for four years she had a majority in this National Assembly and did not come to the point of proposing such a thing. It always uses this only for accounting at a time when it is in opposition, so that it can use the darkness and open up the themes of returning to history and divide the nation into such or different ones. The most important thing about the whole story is that it focuses in its proposal primarily on the argument that there is still a need to change the part that talks about, I will say, symbols that depict various totalitarian systems, fascist systems – and so on, that I do not owe. The point of all is that I really believe that there is not one Member or Member in this National Assembly, nor the Slovenian and Slovenian – I do not believe – except the individuals we have already seen who stand out in this society, who would even agree that something like this should be written down – or, I will say, disagree with it. [[…]] But we all know where the real secret to this proposal is. The mystery of this proposal is, in fact, one simple red star that disturbs them from here to eternity. Especially because this star is the one that in their eyes, with their eyes, of course, pictures all the time and forever only one thing. And this is JLA, Tito, the previous system. They live in one of their balloons of desire and meaning, understood only by them. Let me say that this red star is, or a star, can also be found on some other item. We know there's beer on Heineken. There was also a lawsuit in this case and, of course, these stars were never and no one could remove them. There are other cases that have been discussed by a government representative not to repeat them. But it's more than clear that there are other stars that we also have on our back, but they're not red, they can be gray, they can be yellow, they can be green, they can't know what. However, to work in disguise and disguised defeat of a star that anyone can see slightly differently is already preposterous. In addition, of course, the applicants also mention a third concept, which I see that they really have no idea what the Ljubljana Castle really is. In fact, why they decided to place only one hill, one castle in Slovenia so far that it must be written in the law, in order to determine when a flag will hang at the highest peak of this castle, is of course extremely funny and, finally, also a distortion of some image. The Ljubljana Castle in history never meant any comprehensive Slovenia. But it certainly meant the highest point in Ljubljana and has a special stamp in Ljubljana for one simple reason, because the then mayor Ivan Hribar bought it with his own money, with one purpose to give it, which it is also, the city of Ljubljana, and has remained in the possession of this city until today. Let me say that all Ljubljanaians and Ljubljanans are extremely proud when the Slovenian flag hangs on the Ljubljana Castle. And he's always hanging out at all the state holidays. And more. Whenever a foreign statesman comes to Slovenia, Ljubljana, a Slovenian flag hangs that day without the SDS ordering by law that it hangs 365 days. Of course, it will hang on the Ljubljana Castle for as long as the Ljubljana Castle will be a Ljubljana, Ljubljana's flag, because the Ljubljana Castle has always been a Ljubljana castle and I believe it will remain that way in the future. And this, I would say, incredibly possessive attitude towards things that don't really exist has crossed all boundaries. Let me say that at the Ljubljana Castle – those who will walk to the Ljubljana Castle, you can see that at the entrance of the Ljubljana Castle there is a Slovenian flag, along with other flags. The Slovenian flag hangs in the area where the events take place on the Ljubljana Castle. And this conversion and conversion into some new story of the epoch, that what is left of tradition and, last but not least, history and memory will change when it is not necessary, of course, is already extreme and limits on things that I will not even define anymore. Let me end up saying what's most important. In the National Assembly, the congregation of the three congregations at that time, when it was also decided what the flag, coat of arms, and everything else would be — I said it a year ago in the National Assembly, and I will repeat it until those who suggest it will continue to do the same. Mr Školč, then, pointed out clearly and very loudly that it is necessary to be very precise and very careful not to accept the symbols of the country overnight. Of course, euphoria was great at the time, and it is normal for the country to have its symbols. But why do I keep saying that? Since he then pointed out the following matter: Once we accept the flag and the coat of arms and take them for ourselves, we will no longer change them until social order changes. This reminds me of another republic – you will not get it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u53	Thank you. The text shall be given by the Parliamentary Group of the Mir Cerar Party and, on its behalf, by Mrs Anita Kolesh.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u54	Madam Vice-President, Mr Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! The symbols of the state of Slovenia are defined in the Slovenian Constitution, the use of symbols, these are coat of arms, flag and anthem, and the Law on the coat of arms, flag and anthem of the Republic of Slovenia and on the Slovenian National flag. The proposed amendments to the Act were decided on the basis of possible unconstitutionality in the work, which, in the use of one of the symbols, is an anthem, goes to the performance of the seventh feat of Francet Prešerna Zdradljica, while at the same time introducing in the novel a legal requirement for the suspension of flags in Ljubljana, a ban on the public magnification of all totalitarian regimes and remedying shortcomings in criminal provisions or the height of fines. By far the most attention the applicants devote to the amendment of Article 5 of the Act, which states that the hymnal seventh kitica of Francet Prešerna Zdravica is a melody from the choir's same-name composition of the composer Stank Premrl. The proposal for a legal procedure introduces a provision that deletes the seventh kitica from the law, adds an explanation that, at the national anthems and festivals, the Health Agency with all eight kitties is fully implemented and, on other occasions, the reduced form, the second and seventh kitties, can also be used. Of course, this raises a number of questions, among which it is irrelevant why the proposaler's so keen attention to changing the content that defines national symbols, since the members of the National Assembly have been meeting with them for the third time since 2011. However, when we examined individual proposals in the SMC Group, we found that the proponents ignored the fact that the Slovenian anthem was both Stanka Pretrl's song and Prešeren's seventh kitica Zdravljica. In practice, Premrl's music is probably heard more often than the performance of an anthem with text. That is why Members of the SMC agree primarily with those who say that hymn is a musical creation for the chosen word. But of course we do not want to change the legal provisions, because we are proud of the decision of the state of Slovenia to write Zdravljica in the Constitution as a Slovenian hymn and in the law stipulated that in the music of one of the most important Slovenian composers of the 20th century Prof. Stanka Premrla we sing famously to the living nations. Therefore, Prešeren’s versions, which have an outstanding symbolic charge, are nothing less important than the content of all the others who together form an extraordinary poetry work. The fact is that we sang it before we wrote it down in the Constitution and that the constitutional provision itself is actually due to a broad consensus that the healer is our anthem. In addition to the reasons why we reject the reasons for amending Article 5 of the Act, we must also point out that there are too many inconsistencies in the proposal. From the fact that it is not clear when two kitits must or may be joined, how to act on the musical performance of the anthem itself, to the reduction of the constituent part of the law, it is a record of melody and text. After two attempts to amend the bill as a result of the amendment of the anthem clause, the proposal also addresses the requirements for the suspension of flags in the capital, as well as the provisions on the prohibition of the public magnification of totalitarian regimes and their past or present state symbols. Regarding the suspension of flags in Ljubljana, we fully agree with the opinion of the Government, which says that Article 14 of the current law governs this area well enough, according to the Ljubljana Municipal Assembly, which we have received, and this is confirmed only by the Members. However, as regards the additional Article 24a, by the way, the applicants put it in the chapter on the anthem, we believe that such provisions do not fall within the said law, but that, as the supervisory authority in the law on Slovenian national symbols, the proposer also introduces the police, which is, in other words, significant or worrying. The only thing the SMC Group could attach to the applicant is their finding that the provisions on the amount of fines for offences are obsolete, as they are still in force in Slovenian Tolars. However, we do not agree with the proposed penalties because they do not comply with the principle of proportionality between the meaning of the infringement and the weight of the sanction. In the SMC Group, we reject the proposed Law on amendments and additions to the Law on coat of arms, flag and anthems of the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovenian National flag in its entirety.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u55	Thank you. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u56	I am gathering a very nice greeting for all on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party! I think it was refreshing to hear this in the first two explanations, and I have no doubt that they will remain similar by the ruling coalition. They reflect a complete confusion of values, as well as ignoring certain obvious facts. And one wonders where we actually live. And that's the real question that we'd really need an answer to today -- where do you actually live, ladies and gentlemen?Oh, my God! You don't care about the constitution, you don't care what Zoran Jankovic, the mayor of Ljubljana, writes. I would certainly have a lot to say about the value of patriotism. The value of patriotism is what should be self-evident for every democratic society, which is in some ways a reflection of that common foundation that connects everything and everyone. And here we all agree: the former President of the Republic, the current President of the Republic, the members of the National Assembly, the government, everyone. Until the moment you have to do something about it. And that's when what's said to be the problem is always in a little detail. And then it happens that we propose a law in which what is done in normal countries is expected to be the most visible, most representative, most representative, symbolic property in the capital to be hanged by a state flag. Recently, just a few days ago, there was a meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy, where your Foreign Minister and Foreign Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, from your coalition, ladies and gentlemen, Karl Erjavec, was a guest. And I asked him what it was like in other major cities. And of course he confirmed what I know, what you know, and what is obviously impossible to deny. To hang a state flag on such buildings in all normal countries. Because it is a symbol because it is a symbolic act, because it is an act of pride that you have your country, because it is also a form of education, because it is an expression of joy. There are many reasons for hanging the flag on such an object as the castle above the city of Ljubljana and where there is only a Ljubljana flag. I don't mind. None of us mind, only there should be room for the state flag. Not just here and there, but always. Night and day. Because this is the night and day of our country. And what you can't understand, ladies and gentlemen, is that you get it, and that's why I said that some -- I don't know where you live, from the capital, by Zoran Jankovic, you can look at his signature and the printer, a letter quoting only the key phrase when he says, "The city is a monument of local importance." And then I quote, ladies and gentlemen, "There is no reason to hang the flag of the Republic of Slovenia on it." Yeah, great! For the first time, I wonder whose mayor is Mr Zoran Jankovic. He is the mayor of the capital of Slovenia. He's not just the mayor of some town. And since this is the capital of the state of Slovenia, it should also take into account those aspects that apply to nationality. And if it is written down and signed that there is no reason to elevate the flag state, then, ladies and gentlemen, it is high time for this to be tamed by the law, just to tell him what kind of country we want to live in. In a country where all of us, including Zoran Jankovic, will be happy to have our homeland, to have a country of our own, and to be happy to elevate and celebrate its symbols, because it is an expression of patriotism as one of the fundamental values of every normal democratic state. And if you'll excuse me, in every normal country, I stress a normal, democratic state, the mayor of the capital would certainly be happy to write that he will always put the flag of the state on any key facility without any change in the law. Not that he doesn't see the reason. If this is written down, I'm sorry, then something with this country and with the person who signs it, from the point of view of values, it's bad, it's bad, it's bad. That is why this law is urgently needed. Then the next problem that opens up when I listen to the debate on this proposal is that it is said why, because our anthem is the seventh kitula of Health. Well, it would be nice if at least those who debate in the National Assembly opened this blue booklet, which contains the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Then we would also read Article 6, in which one of the paragraphs said very unequivocally: The Hymna of the Republic of Slovenia is Zdravica. Not Article 7, not any article, but a toast, a dot. So the anthem is a toast as a whole. And only the next sentence forward determines the use of an anthem, a coat of arms and a flag of course then determines the law. So the law can't be above the constitution. He can't evaluate the constitution in one part, he can't destroy it, he can only make an exception. Clearly, we have two ways of using an anthem in each common country. So an anthem as a whole, which is a rule, and an exception to the fact that an anthem is used in events where there is not enough time, for various reasons also in a shorter form. It's everywhere. To talk about having a toast too long to at least be played at central events, state events is total nonsense. The one who says that to look at the length of the Italian anthem, by repeating all the songs in it, and then to see how many times a year they play it completely at the central state events. He'll be very surprised how long this song is. She's not the only one. But since it's our neighbor, it's also worth looking at. I don't understand why we shouldn't play toast as a whole. There is no reason that we cannot take two minutes more time and listen to the toast as a whole, which is a wonderful song, and thus also respect the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in its entirety. No one is proposing, nor is there any proposal in this law that there be no shorter form. But now the exception is placed as the only rule. Which is not right. And then it was done to make it a rule, but sorry, it's a little awkward from the point of view of constitutional norms, and also from the point of view of purely, if we go back, the values of patriotism. Personally, I would like to listen to the toast as a whole at central state events. It's not too long, it's very beautiful, and it's very nice to listen to it. And I'm surprised those who reject it entirely, as has just been said, which, by the way, is still contrary to the Constitution, but you probably don't care. The third problem we face in Slovenia is the worship of totalitarian symbols. And one of the forerunners perfectly showed it in his performance. If this same speaker had come here and started to explain to everyone how the swastika, the hooky cross, the two-thousand-thousand symbol of happiness and joy and that he therefore deserves a special place and that he wears it publicly and honors it and presents it, then perhaps the next one who would have gone up and told him that the crown donkey had eaten the huron applause of all present. But believe it or not, it's true in the East. The hooky cross is actually a symbol of happiness there, and there couples even take pictures of it to have happiness in a common life, and many children and so on. In short, one symbol is attributed to saying other characteristics than what it has in Europe, where the most heinous crimes have taken place under this symbol. But do you know what the problem is? That other most disgusting crimes were happening under the red star and that modern united Europe was created by the collapse of the red star as a symbol of the Berlin Wall, on the ruins of which modern united Europe was created, and finally on the ruins of which we have become a part of the European Union. And that was a pretty awkward thing to do. Even more embarrassing is the one you mentioned, interestingly in what context, in a humiliating way in your speech, that it was a symbol under which the independent state of Slovenia was attacked. The cluster bombs, by the way, are a crime even under military international law, which is not obsolete. The cluster bombs that flew from JLA aircraft to Slovenia were dropped under the symbol of a red star. The tanks from which a civilian artist was shot, an artist, merely a random observer of what was happening out there in Styria, had a red star. The tank in Brunika, from which a purely impoverishable Austrian journalist and his cameraman were killed at the time of the truce, had a red star. And if for some patriotism starts under the symbol of a red star and ends up under the image of Che Guevare in the Cologne, forgive me, then with such understanding of patriotism something is very seriously wrong. That's the problem. However, referring to the case of the judgment of the European Court of Justice is totally wrong or intentional, for if you read our proposal for a law, you could read in it that it allows for exceptions when wearing is permitted, the use of these symbols at cultural events, such as at memorial events during World War II, when it is allowed to wear and use for historical and other reasons, and there is no problem. This is said to be the case, as you mentioned, with the application of this law, it cannot appear at all. It can't happen. The other thing is, of course, that the entire state summit cannot then enjoy under the red star and the image of Che Guevara, while there is not a single single Slovenian flag in the entire hall at the national event. This could no longer have happened after this law. And believe that this is in the development interest of the country of Slovenia. And let us also put the development interest together once, not just the question of patriotism. Because in the country where it happens that the entire state summit goes to heaven under the red flag and the image of Che Guevare and sings "e viva il communismo" and Europe is a gang of thieves and a placard of it all delighted, there, of course, that country is doomed to failure, because every normal investor will run away from such a country. Anyone looking for a business partner will go looking for him elsewhere, and he will run away from such a country, as far as his feet carry him, because he will count that they do not respect the same values in this country. That European values there are not respected that they are not protected, that their interests are not protected in the way that they are normal in democratic countries and democratic Europe. If the state allows it to become a red exot in this way, we all live worse in such a country. This country costs an awful lot. Not only this moment, but also the next generations, for everyone is fleeing such a country. It's worse. Everyone who is capable of going abroad escapes from such a country. Why do you think all entrepreneurs are going abroad? Because there is a complete confusion of values, which are not adequately protected or in the justice system, which all Europe reminds us of, and where different other institutions do not operate in a European comparable way. However, I would really like to see that European country, except Slovenia, where the majority in the National Assembly would define absolutely negative and categorically reject the proposal to respect the constitutional norm and its hymn, the hymn of this country, in our case Zdravica, would play in its entirety, where in the National Assembly it would be said that it is absolutely rejected that the Slovenian national flag would be erected in a representative facility in the capital. I would like to see that country where such a debate in Parliament is even possible and it is said that everyone is absolutely against a coalition. This is only possible in Slovenia. But this is a reflection of being here with values, with the value of patriotism, and unfortunately also with the question of our development something really wrong. And that's what we all feel every day. Pushing your head in the sand doesn't help. We obviously need such a law so that no mayor of the capital will ever think again about writing that he sees no reason to hang the Slovenian state flag on the castle every day. To avoid anyone thinking of discussing in the National Assembly in order to categorically define himself against the constitutional norm that sets out, I quote once again: "Animna Slovenije is a Zdravica." This is the standard set out in the last paragraph of Article 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. And you say you categorically reject it. Then something is seriously wrong, and that is why we need it so much more. Last but not least, we need it for the development of Slovenia, and last but not least, it might even apply to things in the first place. For as long as we have the state summit, which is able to sit under the red flag and the image of Che Guevare and shout "e viva il communismo" and that Europe is a gang of thieves, it is necessary to know that in such a hall where there was no single male Slovenian flag, there is also no real patriotism, ladies and gentlemen. There is also no reason to be responsible for their own country, for development, for people, because from such a country every foreign investor escapes as far away as possible. Any foreigner who wants a business partner runs as far away as possible. And that's why we all end up living worse and worse. And then he just owes himself and puts the burden of this nonsense on the next generation. Therefore, this is not only an ideological issue, it is not only a question of values and patriotism, it is also a fundamental development issue. That is why we need this law, and that is why we have also proposed it in the SDS, and we will all vote unitedly in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u57	Thank you. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mrs Mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. It's a nice greeting for everyone! Mr Grims, representative of the Slovenian Democratic Party, presented his position before me. He waved with the Constitution and Article 6. Well, I'll also say that the last sentence of Article 6 of the Constitution reads, "The use of coat of arms, flags and anthems is regulated by law." Thus, it is not defined in the Constitution that this is the whole of the Medication, as you claim. This is always the achievement of the SDS to exclude the text from the context, as is the case now, it is happening everywhere and everywhere. So much for the record, I'm just saying this because he really waved that blue book a few times, and I had to say it and read it. Now to the position of the Desus Group on the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the coat of arms, flag and anthem of the Republic of Slovenia and on the Slovenian National flag. Again, we have before us a proposal for a new Law on the coat of arms, flag and anthem of the Republic of Slovenia and on the Slovenian National flag. And like the novels that were tabled in April 2011 and February 2014, this time the draft law was also tabled by the SDS Group of Members. They tabled the same proposal twice in one year, at the beginning of 2014 and again at the end of the previous year. As already in previous proposals in the SDS Group, this time they also propose that the entire Medici be identified as an anthem. That is not what the Constitution stipulates, I reiterate. The last sentence of the Constitution stipulates that this is regulated by a special law. In the proposal before us at the March 2014 meeting, provisions on the anthem already tabled in 2011 added provisions on the prohibition of totalitarian symbols. Of course, we did not support these proposals in the Desus Group. In this proposal, however, the only new provision is that the state flag will always be displayed in Ljubljana and Ljubljana Castle with all the flags of the local community. Whenever I was at the Ljubljana Castle, I saw a Slovenian flag there. Although it seems pointless to repeat ourselves, let me briefly tell you why in the Desus Group we opposed the previous proposals and why we have not changed our opinion to this day. We wonder why the applicants think that a law with virtually the same provisions as the one not adopted a bad year ago will be passed this time. In explanation of the amendment, the proposal is based on the initiative of Boris Pahor, one of the most prominent Slovenian academics, poets and writers. Mr Pahor is committed to complementing the hymn with the inclusion of the second kit. All honour is due to Mr Boris Pahor, but he is not the only academic in Slovenia, and I am still waiting for statements about this to be made by others who are qualified to do so. The proposals go even further than this proposal, as they propose that the law be laid down for the hymn of the entire Medici and that only the second and seventh kitties can be performed as an anthem in short form. In doing so, they point out the reason for respect for the values of patriotism and national consciousness, which, according to their belief, would be expressed only by the text of the second kit, which refers to the Slovenian nation. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we ask again what to change more than a 20-year tradition. The applicants answer because the Slovenian anthem currently does not reflect the value of patriotism, which is an extremely important value. The fact that the value of patriotism is extremely important and must be strengthened is, of course, agreed by the Desus Group. But here we have different opinions on what the word patriotism means by SDS and other parties. There has been a difference of opinion for twenty years, and proponents have used the word patriotism for completely inappropriate things and abuse the word. In the Desus Group, we also wonder whether changing the text of the anthem will actually help to strengthen the value of patriotism. Is it really only necessary to raise the national consciousness of the Slovenian people? The answer, of course, is no. It takes a lot more to make Slovenians proud of their country, and we Members have a great role to play in this. With a few hours of debate on changing the anthem and banning totalitarian symbols, we will certainly not be able to achieve this. For a country that we can be proud of, let us work hard and find solutions to strengthen our economy and make sure that young people have jobs and not just think about how to work abroad as soon as possible and make sure that our pensioners receive pensions that will enable them to live a decent life. Believe me, the socially weak members of our society are not thinking about whether the hymn will become the whole of Health or which kitties will sing at celebrations, but about how they will survive from month to month. We are confident that changing the text of the Slovenian anthem will not contribute to the rise of patriotism among Slovenians, so in the Desus Group we do not support this bill. The bill redefines that any public expression of ideas through or through totalitarian symbols is strictly prohibited and must be strictly sanctioned. In this regard, let me mention that the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg has already ruled that wearing a red star is not a crime, but a fundamental human freedom, and therefore in the Desus Group we believe that the prohibition of these symbols would limit the human right to freedom of expression. As I have already said, in the Desus Group we continue to insist on our position, which we have already said before a bad year, and therefore we will not support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u59	Procedural mag. Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u60	Thanks again for saying that. Dear President, I propose that you pay very close attention to the lady who has just spoken, because her words regarding author Boris Pahor were mildly said to be rude and humiliating to a fighter who devoted 100 years of his life to the ministry, a man whose patriotism could be an example for all generations, a man who never feared to stand up for the rights of the Slovenians, not against violent fascists, not against anyone else. And that kind of expression, I'm sorry, is a disgrace to whoever does it. However, if this is not adequately addressed in the National Assembly as well as in the National Assembly as a whole. I am sorry, I can only personally, as a Member, apologize to Mr Boris Pahor, but I expect you to do the same, and remind the lady that such extreme primitiveism is not a place in this National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u61	Your procedural proposal, therefore, is to remind the lady. I will not remind Mrsa because you mentioned some things to her, which – but now, I think that what she said, if it was, was not meant to be offensive, she spoke of being one of the academics and that not all the academic community had spoken about the matter, I think she spoke with respect to Mr Pahor to respect his opinion, but she had a different opinion. Now, here's the other thing. Instead of discussing the whole matter here in such a way that someone cannot say something contrary to someone who has a very well-established position, I will speak to Mr Pahor myself to give him in this context, trying to abuse him for both sides. He has a clear point of view, he takes up two kitrices of a toast, and this has always been said, but he never talked about that whole toast as such, is partly also on this side of you. I think that you are a Member because of what she said on behalf of the Group of Members does not deserve a reminder, and for that reason I will certainly not tell her, but I will check with Mr Pahor himself whether the debate in the National Assembly has offended him in any way and in this case I will personally apologize to him. We continue the debate. [[advertising from the hall]] Procedural — For What? [[advertising from the hall]] I asked a procedural question about what? You told me. It's not procedural for me. Do you want to go back to the procedure? Please first explain what the procedure is.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u62	Mr President, I propose to you now, too, that you ensure full respect for the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in the National Assembly, even when it comes to yourself. If the constitution says that the anthem of the Republic of Slovenia is Zdravica, then that is exactly how it should be understood. And that only the law can allow exceptions, it can prescribe the method of application that I spoke about earlier. Hemna Slovenije is a toast as a whole. [[advertising from the hall]] It's a standard that applies to everyone. It also applies to the President of the National Assembly and is also applicable to the one who is now rudely jumping into my word – is it not, Mr Möderndorfer? And it would be nice [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u63	Wait, please, let him say it to the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u64	when we speak in the National Assembly, that at least the basics of understanding of the Constitution and that at least what it says in the Constitution are taken into account by everyone in their debates. [[…]] And that would be my procedural proposal. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u65	What you considered to be procedural was, in fact, an abuse of procedure for non-procedural purposes, i.e. for a substantive debate. If we had different opinions on this issue, it is a fact, otherwise we would not discuss it. I understand that you have misused the procedural question, and in the first such attempt, I will give you a reminder and then follow the rules of procedure. We are continuing the debate and I will no longer allow you procedural at this point. First, we will complete the presentation of the views of the groups of Members and then we will continue to present the views of the individual Members, and I will not allow the others to object to you on a procedural basis. The text shall be given by the Group of Social Democrats and, on its behalf, by Mrs Andreja Katič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues welcome! Social Democrats The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the coat of arms, flag and anthem of the Republic of Slovenia and on the Slovenian National flag, which has been re- tabled by Members and Members of the Parliament of the Slovenian Democratic Party, will not be supported. In view of the repeated attempts by the Slovenian Democratic Party to amend this law, especially when they are in opposition, we estimate that it is only a provocation and opening up to those who share. Actually, it's just an ideological discussion that won't solve any problems. Last time the Slovenian Democratic Party ran the government, without a legal basis and without any broader consensus, it allowed itself to pursue flags with celebrations. They also took advantage of the abuse and played at the national celebration, sang like an anthem of the four kitties of Prešernová Zdravica. And there's more to it than that. Let us explain and reiterate why we will not support this proposal of the Social Democrats in the third. Speaking of anthem, this proposal touches three levels. Can I speak, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u67	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u68	When we talk about an anthem, this proposal touches on three levels. First, an anthem at the level of the symbol, secondly, an anthem at the legal level and thirdly, the relationship between anthem and Prešeren's Health. In the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the anthem is mentioned in the chapeau of the General provision and together with the flag and coat of arms represents a symbol of the Slovenian state. The basic characteristic of each symbol is its durability, because it is by its inadmissibility that we can take root as a symbol of a community that is generally acceptable and therefore accept its appearance as self-evident. The hymn initiates an individual's identity with the state, strengthens the individual's civic consciousness, promotes the emotional relationship of the individual to the community that belongs to him, and therefore every attempt to change the hymn as a symbol must be thoroughly thoughtful and generally acceptable, not always ideologically motivated and unilaterally imposed. For the first time, our anthem here in the National Assembly spontaneously sang 27. 9. In 1989, it was written twice in the Constitution — in the Constitution of the previous system and later in our new constitution, and twice in law. On previous opinions, most opposed whether the anthem, flag or coat of arms should be replaced. We're sure that's the way it is today. However, the question remains. Why change the anthem that we are actually proud of today? It is unfair and unworthy that you want to put it under the question of credibility. She's the one we identified ourselves with. This is our anthem, an anthem with a big opening. Most citizens know her, they know her, they know her, they know her. This is important for the awareness of belonging to the State. There are no valid reasons to change it or to change it. The amendment and amendment of the law states that the law in force is inconsistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. My claim is based on the fourth paragraph of Article 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, and I quote: "Animna Slovenije is Zdravljica." And that's the end of the clue. Social Democrats are convinced that the law in force is not contrary to the Constitution. The applicant's claim is based only on the cited paragraph and does not take into account the fifth paragraph of this same article of the Constitution, which reads as follows: "The use of coat of arms, flags and hymns is governed by the law." And the law clearly states, I quote: "The hymna is the seventh feat of the song by Francet Prešerna Zdravlica, to the tune of the choir's same-name composition by the composer Stank Premrl." The hymna and its implementation therefore have an appropriate legal basis. The claim of non-constitutionality, however, is purely a misappropriation and a misappropriation of the proposer of the law. The proposed amendments to the law are intended to extend the hymn to the entire text of Prešerenová Zdravica and should also be noted for its scope. We must take into account the specific requirements related to the implementation of the anthem itself. How will people monitor the implementation of the osmotic anthem if it lasts 6 minutes or more? With this, the hymn certainly loses its meaning. The proposal also does not touch the relationship between the instrumental and vocal execution of the anthem. But as for the instrumental execution of the anthem, who knows which text that the kitten is meant to be, if the hymn is only in instrumental execution eight times. However, in the instrumental-vocal implementation, Article 4 of the current law should also be supplemented because the text and the recording of the hymn are an integral part of the law, and we do not believe that the applicant has overlooked it. Especially because that is what we have already pointed out in the position of the Group of Social Democrats in the past. Again, let us give the expert opinion of the Academy of Music, stating: "The musical text of Premrlove Zdravljevice as an anthem in the instrumental event is performed only once." I interrupt the quote and continue to say: "The hymn characterizes music to the greatest extent and it is also the most recognizable, and it is most instrumentally implemented." Social Democrats agree with those who say that the hymn should be as short as possible, that the seventh whale thickens all the essential elements and contains, in the presence of its broad population, also an intimate human and community national component. We also believe that the size of an anthem is expressed not by length or volume of song or song, but by content and music. I also wonder what kind of message is given by those who want to question its current content, i.e. the content of the seventh kit, as unworthy, insufficient and lacking. Although 25 years ago, with the general support of the Slovenian people, with the great political and other consensus in this form, it was adopted. Let us again from the ninth book of the Encyclopedia of Slovenia in 1995 mention some of the thoughts of the author of the slogan France Prešeren academies of Professor Boris Paternu, these are just passages: "The top of Prešeren's political poetry is Zdravjica. Her guiding thought, the radical demand for the freedom of the Slovenian nation, stems from the humanistic vision of equality and the friendly coexistence of all nations and the right of everyone to independence. In the background, the ideas of the French Revolution on equality, freedom and brotherhood are adapted to the fundamental political needs of Slovenians in the spring of the nations and in relation to their independence." At the time of the adoption of the hymn law, it was pointed out that the legislator, by choosing the text of the hymn from Prešernová Zdravljica, did not wish to overturn the other edges of this entire Prešeren song. Therefore, I repeat the statement in the explanation of the law: "If the first kitica were to start both the Slovenian tip and the Slovenian anthem, this would cause problems to law enforcement authorities. If in cases of an offensive way of singing this song it would not be possible to know for sure whether someone sang the Slovenian anthem or the Slovenian potion. On the other hand, the people at the events would be embarrassed to see the Slovenian choir and concert song with eight guitars begin as well as the Slovenian anthem, and it would not be possible to immediately determine the purpose of the game. Last but not least, if we supported such a proposal, we would, on the other hand, intervene with Prešeren's Health as an art and its own life, which is unacceptable to us. If I withdraw all three levels and take the opinion of the Group of Social Democrats, the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which interferes with the scope and manner of the implementation of the Republic of Slovenia, the Group of Social Democrats will not support it. So much for the hymn. The content of the proposed Article 24a concerns the prohibition of the use of symbols and the public glorification of their representatives. It is the same text, with one small correction as had already been proposed in the past. In the position of the Group of Social Democrats, we are once again wondering what the second paragraph of this provision means in relation to others. This means that at the partisan celebrations it will no longer be allowed to play an anthem, that at the celebration of the memory of fallen fighters for our freedom it will no longer be allowed to use the Slovenian flag to thank the fighters that today we can use the Slovenian language, recite and sing Slovenian songs, will not be allowed to use the coat of arms because there will be a red star on the partisan banners of the stars. The Partisan movement was a patriotic movement and was a unique event in the history and history of European nations. The existence of the Slovenian Partisan movement is something that should inspire us with pride and respect. And at these celebrations, because a star will be used, state symbols should not be allowed to be used? At some other celebrations, some other military formation that didn't use a star because it wasn't partisan will be allowed to use state symbols? Is it possible that the marriage promoter is the one and only one in this country who can tell what is totalitarian, what are the historical facts, which symbols are allowed, who are not allowed, who are not allowed, who can change historical facts by retouching pictures, erasing stars on soldiers' hats, and who can't do so? Will one of the true - hearted proponents today condemn the embodiment of the historical facts that took place in Kočevska River last month, when the red stars that they wore in 1990 were wiped out on the hats of the soldiers of the Territorial Defence? I don't think there's gonna be a hero among the proponents who would hope to do that. On the other hand, I believe that in their debates we will hear about patriotism, totalitarianism, all forms of abuse in the former common country and the former political system in general. I'll say it again. Social Democrats do not consent to the fabrication of historical facts. We regret, however, that we have to argue again and again in the National Assembly about the topics that divide us, about which we have different views. However, it is known who brings this over and over again on the agenda of the meetings of the National Assembly. However, it is also known that the Social Democrats will again and again make their views clear on these issues. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will oppose the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the coat of arms, flag and anthem of the Republic of Slovenia and on the Slovenian National flag. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u69	The text shall be given by the Group of Members of the United Left and on its behalf by Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. Comrades and comrades and all of you who are gentlemen and ladies! We are already talking again in this house about proposals and proposals that serve nothing but an attempt to gain the daily political benefits of the Slovenian Democratic Party. You are again proposing a practically identical proposal in the SDS, which has been rejected several times in the past. Please, you're not even in there! As far as legal arguments are concerned, there is nothing to add to the Government's opinion. However, there is a need to add a word about the SDS beating on the chest with patriotism or, rather, nationalism. The 7th kitica of Drażica is supposed to be too internationalistic and not be comparable to the anthems of other countries from this point of view. Obviously, the proponents want an anthem with more national self-improvement and national chauvinism. In fact, we can be proud of the values that this seventh kittie is conveying. It expresses international solidarity, longing for the peaceful coexistence of nations, as well as all Slavs and a different future. And these are the values that our great Prešeren dreamed of. And believe me, the proponents, France Prešeren would be wearing a red star today, if you like it or not. In the face of the global suffering caused by wars in the service of Western imperialism from Ukraine to Syria and Iraq, these are values that must become actual practice at international level. Therefore, we can be proud that with these words Slovenia represents itself in the world and does not end up in its provinciality and planning. What is this patriotism that, according to the applicants, is so lacking in the anthem and elsewhere? Is this possible complete servility and greed towards Brussels technocrats? Are these commitments about privatisation and fear of loss of credibility abroad? Is patriotism the complete surrender of monetary and fiscal sovereignty to the European Union or the invocation of German Chancellor Angela Merkel immediately after election, almost as a novelty in Canosso? Those considered to be the greatest and most zealous patriots today have sacrificed the rights and standards of the majority of the population and residents of Slovenia with the most acute austerity measures. In addition, the Slovenian Democratic Party would again ban so-called totalitarian symbols. The goal is clear — to get rid of the red star. Get rid of the symbol of all the antifascist and liberating battles in which fighters and fighters gave their lives in the hope of a different future. Get rid of the red star, which is proud to be carried by the United Left. It is not unusual that extreme right-wing trumpets call for a constitutional ban on the United Left coalition. Forming historical facts is no stranger to them. Recently, at the celebration of the right-wing association for the values of Slovenian independence, the red star was even retouched by photographs of the first line of the Slovenian Army. I was wondering if you'd like to retouch the frescoes in the lobby of the National Assembly. There's a whole bunch of flags with sickle and hammer and a red star. Equalization of so-called totalitarianism is a strategy that has been used at European level for some time now by the extreme right and has clear political objectives – to demonise and stop all the left-wing alternatives that we want to end the predominance of the great neoliberal coalition of left- and right-centre parties. As early as 2008, the European Court of Human Rights had attached to the politicians of the Hungarian Workers' Party that the red star did not symbolize the so-called totalitarian regimes. Proposers who, in addition to patriotism, like to refer to their European attitude, ignore this judgment that they do not like. It is the proponents of legislative changes who insist on destroying the great historic achievement of national liberation. They plan to change history and relativize the basic facts of World War II. As a result of this discussion, vandal attacks on the features of the red star and on the other hand the establishment of monuments to the collaborators of the Nazi occupation. It is interesting that we are discussing the proposed law of the extreme right right right today, on the worldwide day of victims of the Holocaust. The red star liberated the concentration camps. And it is interesting that during the speech of the President of the National Assembly there were no representatives of the extreme right in the Chamber. What do they tell us? The Red Star is also a special pride for the Primors who suffered under Italian fascism. At the same time, it is a symbol that connects the Union of Warriors for NBO values. In the Union of Fighters, which preserves the values and spirit of the national liberation fight, which is becoming increasingly relevant in today's political and economic situation in Europe, the Janša government suspended funding and reduced the rights of veterans and victims of war violence and expelled flags from state celebrations. At the same time, the so-called National Reconciliation Office was established in 2008. I ask you very nicely where we are today with this reconciliation, because they have spent as much as 2.7 million euros in taxpayer money to do their work. Of course, sir, just nod. The United Left will demand a ban on this office, which apparently only dissociates people and spends money. The Red Star is a symbol of national liberation and the struggle for the nations to survive. Nor does Mr Grimes know that Europe has emerged from the values of the anti-fascist fight. 9. May, the holiday of Europe, is a holiday of victory over fascism. I'd tell him a lot of things, but he's obviously not interested. In the United Left, we want patriotism to become a question of the welfare of all peoples and peoples of Slovenia. Possibility of decent work for fair pay, pensions that enable a dignified age and opportunity to meet the potential of young people. These are questions that we must devote time and attention to. But history should remain history and be our reminder, which should never have happened again. However, we strongly oppose the embodiment of historical facts and the defamation of symbols that represent hope and resistance against foreign invaders and domestic masters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u71	Thank you. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be presented by Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u72	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Madam Vice President! I find it a bit embarrassing to be the last discusser in such a hot debate, a completely meaningless debate. When a colleague came to the National Assembly, he said, "Is it warm?" I said, "No, it's hot, but it's totally out of touch because we're fighting, or we're looking at some kind of discord in the National Assembly, which isn't at all." We are fighting completely about banal things, and from all the debates I have not personally seen a bit of constructiveness so far in order to just talk or get one suitable solution, as far as the changes and additions to that law are concerned. And there's only one thing I'd say about the introduction, because I haven't detected any elements of patriotism. What is the difference between patriotism and nationalism? It's a fundamental difference. On the one hand, we have nationalism, which in its essence is geared toward others, while patriotism encourages the nation itself. And in this case, let's say the law proposed by colleagues and colleagues of the Slovenian Democratic Party is about patriotism and not nationalism. So let me point out that the New Slovenia Group will support the bill. State symbols, flag, coat of arms and anthems convey the recognition of one country. They are chosen on the basis of historical facts or are born out of human tradition and tradition and indicate the nationality of the nation. With their message value, they create a nation's self-confidence to the state and represent the world's uniqueness and unity of state, nation and people. It is for these reasons that the identification of state symbols is raised in the highest legal act of the individual country. This is also the case in the Republic of Slovenia. 6. Article 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia defines the coat of arms, flag and anthem of the Republic of Slovenia and clearly states: hymna is Zdravica. The Law on coat of arms, flag and anthem and on the Slovenian National flag provides for the use of state symbols. As for the hymn, it is stipulated that it represents the text of the seventh kit of Prešeren's Zdravica on the text and the strings of Stank Premrl. As we have pointed out in the introduction, the anthem with its message value must arouse national ownership of the state, that is, patriotism, no nationalism, which we have heard in previous discussions. Our greatest poet Prešern wrote the entire text as a praise to his country and its inhabitants. Only the seventh kitica of Zdravljica, and also according to the beliefs of Christian Democrats, underemphasizes the belongings of the Slovenian people and is therefore considering the amendment of the law on coat of arms, flag and anthem and the Slovenian national flag entirely on the ground. This problem, as we have heard many times before, has also been pointed out by the famous Slovenian writer from the substitute, whom we really have not come to appreciate in recent years, Mr Boris Pahor. He emphasized, quote: "There are no Slovenians mentioned in the Slovenian anthem." He cited this as proof that the Slovenians do not appreciate themselves. He stressed that the hymn was an important issue of Slovenian national consciousness, a natural and positive sense of belonging to a nation that must be emphasized in the hymn. So Boris Pahor is going to be attached. The 7th Kitica of Prešernovo Zdravljica really does not mention the Slovenian people or Slovenia, so it is suggested that the second and seventh kitica of Prešernovo Zdravljice be proclaimed as Slovenian anthem, which is: Komú nar front a cheerful toast, brothers, chimň zapét'? Our God our land, God lives all the Slovenian world, brothers all that we are, sons of the glorious mother, are in place. Does anyone in this Chamber object? Is there something wrong with that? Is something wrong? I personally think that Mr Boris Pahor here is fully proposing that we go into this change. The Slovenian anthem must certainly mention Slovenian people and Slovenia. Christian Democrats are therefore supporting the proposal for amendments and the addition of the Law on coat of arms, flag and hymns in the work which stipulates that the Slovenian anthem is the second and seventh kitula of Zdravjica. With regard to the proposal to be fully implemented at the national celebrations and festivals of Zdravljačica, all seven kitikas would be proposed, but not for ideological reasons, but for very practical reasons. The performance of all seven kitties is really long and often difficult to implement. For national celebrations are often held outdoors in different weather conditions and in different performances. Following the debate held in this first reading and also in the course of the proceedings, there will be an opportunity for the legal text to be supplemented or amended in this direction. And for the end, it's about totalitarian symbols. The novelty of the law also prohibits all totalitarian symbols of communism, Nazism, national socialism, all totalitarian symbols. And with that, let me tell you an anecdotes from Goriška. On one side of the hill, the Italian side was measured by the Slovene Communists, Communists, Communists. On the other hand, we measured them fascists, fascists, fascists. And in the valley, you know what it was? Same. It's the same sound. Is there a problem with us judging you the same way? I don't see that problem. This is why we will support this change in New Slovenia. Now Violet Tomić is no longer in the hall. She was talking. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] And yes, you're here. I'm sorry. I, Mrs Violeta Tomić, respect you as a woman, as a mother, as an excellent and excellent actress and I very much appreciate you. But also let you appreciate, appreciate the people who have suffered under this symbol that you wear on your shirt. And not because of them, but because of your inner peace. It'll be easier. It will be even easier if Slovenians and Slovenians live more in peace and quiet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u73	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u74	Thank you, Vice President. First of all, allow me to respond mainly to the government's opinion, comment on some views of the parliamentary groups and also a letter from the Ljubljana mayor. And if it is necessary that, given that it was quite a hot presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups, and perhaps for those who speak above all, you probably haven't even read the law, I think that was at least half of the introverts, let's say exactly what it says in the law, not just a few flat-rate cases. The first thing I would like to point out is that we are at first reading, and I think that the government's opinion on certain segments is quite realistic and also leads to what might still need to be worked out. But, Your Honor, we have a second treatment on the working body, we have a second treatment in the National Assembly, if we have to have a third treatment. In short, anything can happen if you want. But we know that will is not for one reason. Where the proposed SDS or sometimes the New Slovenia Group is not in the mood. Let me make a few comments. The constitution. Hemna Slovenije is a Health Officer. We all agree. Then it says that the use of coat of arms, flags and anthems is regulated by law. Today we do not come up with the idea of a new flag, although the professional and lay public speaks that we should change the flag because we are too Yugoslav because we are too Slovak because we do not know how to be other colors and everything else. We don't change the hump. And we are one of the few countries that have a very special coat of arms system that no other country has with regard to its introduction with different circles. We don't even change the anthem. We only follow the constitution, where it says that the anthem of Slovenia is a Zdravica and its application is regulated by law. And what we're going to do, settle or change in the marriage, that's what's gonna happen. And for the time being, there is a seventh feat in force. And if we add that at individual celebrations or national celebrations, he sings, recites, or whatever he does, the entire hymn, Health, would not go against the constitution, we would follow the constitution. But if, in our proposal in that short version, we also follow Mr Boris Pahor and we have a second and seventh pixie, with nothing to overwhelm the constitution that we have heard from certain people. Then, regarding the anthem, the Government writes: "These constitutional customs are formulated in practice over a period of time and with a certain social consensus." If I understand correctly, in 2115 the flag will still have to be like that, the coat of arms will still be like that and the hymn will still be like that. I think we should write in the final provision of this law: this law never changes again. That is why there are laws that can be proposed and can be changed at the will of the National Assembly. Then the government says: "The state anthem is thus in the view of the Government with the constitution already established. It is defined: the anthem of Slovenia is Zdravjica. Not the first, not the second, not the third, not the fourth, not the fifth, not the sixth, not the seventh, not the eighth. A toast. However, we deal in detail with the law, and this is what we wanted the proponents to say, personally as a candidate in the position of the parliamentary group several times, but obviously we fall to barren ground. More. The government writes: "The law does not allow different variants of an anthem." The law of the past. And we have before us a proposal for a new law where we can discuss this. The Government then considers that the possibility of implementing an anthem should be taken into account when amending Article 5 of the Act. That is why we have a second and third reading of the bill. If there are any details, we can arrange them or arrange them. There is also an example of how to act when an anthem is performed with music. We'll be in second reading, if we have enough consensus, and we'll make this amendment. On the other hand, if the SDS Group comes by law, with this proposal and with these comments from the Government, will you support it? You will not, because you will always find something else, but how this law is not suitable for further consideration. There will never be a time for further consideration because we are in the wrong year because we are under the wrong government because we do not know what and how. There's always gonna be something wrong. The government then writes: "The government considers article 3 of the bill to be non-systematic and does not belong to this law." But we are talking about a law that says, "Prohibited is the public enlargement of totalitarian regimes, in particular fascism, Nazism or national socialism and communism, and the public use of their past or present state symbols and the public magnification of their representatives." I'm asking the government, which law should we settle this in? The law now in force provides that the market inspection authority is concerned about the supervision of this law. What do we give next time? I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. Tell me, a respected government in which to give the law a ban on the glorification of all totalitarian symbols and not just the stars. The last time we proposed the law, we said that not only is the star problematic, because the star is not always problematic. And luckily, I only heard one brewery brand today, which also uses a star, last time a colleague of mine, who is no longer in the National Assembly, I think she's put up this brewery product at least 20 times. In short, the well-respected government, I'd like to know where to put the law banning the glorification of totalitarian regimes. The Government then responds that the second paragraph of Article 14 of the current law provides that the flag may be extravagant for the labelling of buildings and so on. Therefore, we propose a change to the law which the Ljubljana mayor opposes. I apologize to all the elderly, but I don't, because on Twitter there were quite a few people who warned me that in the previous system, the Yugoslav flag should always be on the Ljubljana Castle, I admit, I don't know, I'm a little younger generation, and I'm interested in that fact. If not, Mr Jani Möderndorfer, an expert, says he is not. Okay, but we can put it into law to make it work. And one opinion by the mayor of the capital who says that, after him, there is not much need for legal regulation if the National Assembly decides that there is a need for legal regulation, we can do so. [[…]] We still have the Main City Act. And if we look at all the major cities and their main cultural attractions across Europe, who also has a national state? Give me an example of who doesn't have one. Everyone has it according to my information, which I have looked at in these European cities. In short, anything can happen if you want. But as I said, he's obviously not in the mood. And with regard to the opinion of the Government, which finds that some of the lower limits of penalties are also enforced on an 18-fold basis. Dearly beloved, the law is almost 20 years old and we still have punishments in the Tolars, which literally means: make a fool of totalitarian symbols, you can wave with a star, you can wave with fascist symbols, Nazi, no one can do anything to you, because we were not able to change the penalties in the euro. And then the government says it's too harsh and unreasonable. Here I will put the Members of the Mir Cerar Group on the side. Consider the Law on Wine, and the Law on Forests, where one former government minister, who is also a minister in this government, suggested that I do not say unreasonable – abnormal punishment. Look, I'm in front of me with the fines of the wine law, the fines. Nothing different than this bill. If a small winegrower is wrong about the label, up to €28 000 will be fined for a legal person. And when we proposed a law to reduce these penalties, it was a rhompom – what are you doing in the SDS, the penalties are life-threatening! But when we in the second law, in what we have before us today, say that we must punish some mockery of our patriotic system and say that enough of this use is outside educational, media, cultural and museum activities, but – no, the penalties are too great. Allow me, as a proposal, to refer to certain positions of the groups of Members. Apparently, most people have a problem with what's second and what's seventh. And all of a sudden, everyone's saying how problematic the second one is, and the seventh one is, I'll do it at home, that's it. I understand the more on the other side that they have problems with the second kit, because twice is the written word of God. Even inside is written God lives throughout the Slovenian world. If it says "ves Slovenian world", I don't know where Mr. Jani Möderndorfer found Slavicism? We're talking about Slovenians. "God lives throughout the Slovenian world... Sons of the Slavic Mother." It is said that there were "Slovenian mothers" in the introduction to Zdravljica, but in those days they said it was too Slovenian to be "sloving". And all of a sudden, they all find out what the seventh feat of magnification is, as one of those who represented the position that the true civic consciousness is in the seventh verse. There is nothing about Slovenia, about Slovenian consciousness, about patriotism in the 7th kitica. "Let all the nations live..." and so on, I will not read, for I hope we all know what the cat is talking about. About the Slovenes nothing. Then you talked about why we came back with this marriage. Because we were hoping that, perhaps, at least partly after the different composition of this national assembly, the largest government party in this drive for Europeanism, and perhaps even in this area, will follow their own words, which they obviously know how to put into practice. It says here we abuse patriotism. We can't abuse it because we don't have in law a ban on the glorification of totalitarian symbols mentioned, except that market inspection does. And once again, especially colleagues from the SD Group, who say we want to replace the symbols. No, we just want the entire Health Care in accordance with the Constitution to be held at national celebrations, where this is not possible, and two kitties. Last case, we all know who won the World Cup, our Mariborian, two kitties played. Was that unconstitutional? At all the sports events that I've been following and our athletes have won, two pussies have played. And now we're arguing here whether it was two times seven or not twice seven. If we could easily follow Boris Pahor and say that the second, we Slovenians, and then the seventh, that we could work with all the other nations. As for the United Left's point of view, it's a waste of words. I'm just taking their challenge in their manners. But I find it interesting how they magnify the star, but they don't talk about other totalitarian symbols. But when we read their program, we know who it looks like before World War II. So much for a start. But I suggest, really, that we avoid ideological issues, that all those who debate look at the provisions of the law and tell us where the problems are, where they are not problematic. And once again, Minister, certain questions that you have opened can be corrected during the second and third hearings. Once again, I ask you, if not in this law, where is the prohibition of the glorification of all totalitarian symbols? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u75	Mr Boris Koprivnikar has the floor of the Minister of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, President. If I may, I would respond only to a few of the particulars that have been said here. Maybe first on the constitutionality of the healer. In view of the fact that there have been several references in the way that the law must be followed by a halt and that there may be certain inconsistencies. I don't see them in this alone, because the constitution stipulates that the hymn is a healer and that this is more detailed in the law. And that's exactly how it's arranged today. Here this reference to the pursuit of the Constitution I do not think is relevant here because it is completely synchro. With regard to the flag's suspension, it may be legally prescribed, if you allow me, for another opinion. The flag is allowed to be hanged. It is determined where and when it must be hanged. Here we are somehow going back in that direction that everything needs to be accurately prescribed, even though in practice it is already working well. But I would point out that things that work well in practice and are within the framework of the law, if we follow the principle that everything must be just prescribed and only what is prescribed is being implemented, then somehow we follow the principle that we have already regretted in the past, and that everything that is not explicitly prohibited is allowed, and that only what is explicitly commanded is being carried out. This simply does not work in practice and with such a principle we will not actually come to the point of dealing with these common problems, because the vast majority of life, business, operation is certainly happening without the law being regulated in detail. That matter, in the principle of the proposer, which I am particularly concerned about, is the definition of totalitarian symbols. It is not about not rejecting totalitarian ideas alone and politically, but it is a fundamental issue. If we legally prohibit the use of totalitarian symbols, the question is what are totalitarian symbols. And when we talk about the problem of regulation, the non-systemic regulation of sanctioning the use of totalitarian symbols, it is not a question of whether it is controlled by a market inspection or by another supervisory authority. The question is, on the basis of what, who will determine what is totalitarian, what is not, what is persecuted and sanctioned and what is not. This is precisely the definition of certain individual symbols that different groups understand and accept differently, as well as the definition of what is acceptable and what is absolutely unacceptable, is the characteristic of non-democratic regimes. We are actually worried about this, because then someone will have to set up for our citizens, what we consider, what some legislator thinks, who will tell us what it is totalitarian. This is a unilateral definition, and we believe that it does not belong in a democratic society. And if you want the legal basis for this, not least, it was the judgment of the European Court of Justice, which, in this case, also made it very clear that it was an unacceptable intervention in the freedom of man by its own expression. Maybe so much more about discussing and rejecting the possibility of proposing a change of law. Look, you proposed to change the law. We are considering it in the National Assembly, so this option certainly exists and is not rejected. That is why we are also considering this proposal for a law today. Of course, I have doubts about the fact that we deal with the law several times in a similar composition, if not identical, and that we are having a discussion that has already been carried out. It's not about refusing to discuss it. I'm working on it today. It is a matter of repeating the debate to which we have already defined ourselves, and I do not expect that this renegotiated discussion at the starting points on the newly identified topics will bring about a different quality debate than it has been so far. If you'll just allow me to make corrections in the second and third stages of the adoption of the law, maybe later on on the committees. It is difficult to accept that the law is opened in the principles of the use of national symbols to open up in such very deep themes, and then only a few minorities, such as the way of control, would be dealt with on committees. The law, as proposed, opens up some very in-depth topics and we believe that if it were opened in a technical sense, the real currency adjustments or the level of penalties can be discussed in this way, but it is difficult to discuss at the committee level in the next stages of the law, which opened up some fundamental points for which a broad political and social consensus is needed.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u77	There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr Benedict Kopmeyer, Desus, has the floor. Prepare Mr Jožef Horvat, Nova Slovenija.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! What the hell's going to happen to change state symbols? The creation of a new state? I understand. What happened or happened after 25 years that certain symbols no longer fit and should be modified? In today's explanations and implementations of colleagues and colleagues to the Proposal for Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the coat of arms, flag and hymn of the Republic of Slovenia there is much talk about patriotism. You don't prescribe patriotism on a prescription. You have it or you don't have it, you want it or you don't want it. In the place where I come from, I will repeat again, from Koroška, for all 25 years we have been expressing patriotism together, and this is what I think the Society of General Maister, members of the Society of Frans Malgai – I will not say in detail who these men are and what they have done for Koroška – representatives of the Union of National Liberation Fighters, the Association of Veterans, the Society of the North, the Association of Slovenian Officers. Together we mark the events of the first world war, the second world war, the Slovenian independent war. Ensigns of all organizations and societies perform, students of schools, residents of all political options. Yeah, you heard right. I'm not gonna talk because I don't use the words "yours" and "ours," so I said all the political options. We can do it in the field. The Korean Slovenes, too, have been able to mark events on their soil along with former ideological opponents, who are heimadienst, as is known. Did someone prescribe that to them? With us, by the way, we're still wondering who blew up the monument in Velivac, who ordered it, and who knew it. But they're already united and together they're laying wreaths on this monument. So let people decide for themselves how and with whom we will celebrate and mark the events of our common history and respect the provisions of the law in force so far for our common good. That's why I'm going to work with everyone in the future. Now tell me if that's why I'm more or less patriotic. By the way, I've lived, studied and worked under a red star, if that's what we can call it. I participated in the maneuvering structure of national protection in 1990, in the Slovenian Civil War in 1991, and I am not ashamed of these events and participations in these institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u79	Mr Jožef Horvat, New Slovenia, has the floor. Get Dr. Dragan Matić ready, SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u80	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Madam Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues! I will begin with what is good in this debate. And it is good that we are discussing our national symbols, our flag, our coat of arms, our anthem, because this is how we show some respect for our national symbols. It is also good that this debate raises various questions, such as what our homeland means to us, whether we are proud of our roots and identity, whether we realize that we are co-created in our country ourselves, whether we are strong enough or proud enough to be proud enough of what is ours, traditionally Slovenian, and that we can also defend that our good Slovenian qualities and traditions and culture and language simply do not come into the great melting pot of Europe. I think it's very important. Let us not be ashamed of the country and the country. As my colleague Kopmajer said, I am proud to have been involved in the war for Slovenia. Of course on the Slovenian side, for 17 days. I'm proud of it, and I hope so, I'm sure, many, my family, relatives and so on. Plato wrote long before us that man was not born alone and for himself, but also for his own country. He probably wanted to say that we have a responsibility for our homeland, not only to wait for what this country or country will give us on the plate, but first to ask ourselves, purely Kennedy, what we can do for this country, for this country first. Yes, the Slovenian anthem was legalized 29. 3. 1990, and this is Prešeren's Health. It is true that there have been many debates, even today, whether it is enough for the seventh whale or not to install at least others, or to sing in full. And when I talk about singing the Slovenian anthem, let's first ask ourselves how many times at national celebrations, municipal celebrations and other events, when the choir sings the Slovenian anthem, how many times do we summarize. There are some countries, some nations where all the participants sing. I think it would be very good if we could teach this to our children in our families first, so that they can sing or at least recite the entire Prešeren's cure. And one more thing. In order to elevate Slovenian flags on Slovenian national holidays to our homes. I've been practicing this ever since my independence. The way he used to laugh at me, maybe even now, but it's less and less. But more and more of those who repeat it after me and at least 100 of them, perhaps for the 200ths I have also distributed Slovenian flags, clearly, free of charge. Whenever you need a flag for a coat or blouse, there's always a ring of such flags in my office. When we talk about totalitarian symbols, about symbols symbolising totalitarian systems, then we need to remember here the European Parliament resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism. 2. 4. This resolution was adopted in 2009. On the basis of this resolution, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, on a proposal from the Youth of Slovenia, a young man of New Slovenia, has demanded that Tito's street in Ljubljana be wiped out, that is to say, the name of Tito Street be deleted. One more thing, and I'm putting an end to it. When I talk about education, of course, first in the family, it is our duty, the duty of parents, then of schools, I recently listened to Mr Hubert Pojarnik, one of the founders of Demos, recently Demos celebrated the 25th anniversary of the establishment, and look, Mr Hubert Pojarnik, among other things, told the sad truth, and this is in some way also the interrogation of conscience for the legislative knowledge of power. He said that he had asked the State Examination Commission why in all these self-sustainment years in Slovenia there was not a single senior issue in the chapter of Slovenian self-sustainment. Not a single question. It's like we're making a fool of ourselves. And you really can't understand that. Then the historians told him that it took at least a quarter of a century, that 25 years to shed light on events and that then the true history books were supposed to be written, and then perhaps the senior issues in this field of our bright history would be said to be Slovenian independence. I wonder if this year's graduation will therefore take place 25 years after Demos was established, which was December 4, 1989, and I wonder if there will be any graduation issue in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u81	The word has Dr. Dragan Matić, SMC. Get Mr Matjaž Han ready, SD.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The consideration of today’s subject matter may be justified if it were written in 1992 or 1993 and when it would be considered that after independence we define our countries as symbols. Today, this kind of debate is a bit unusual. We've had our symbols for over 20 years, and national coat of arms athletes have been successfully competing for our country, receiving medals under the flag when they're listening to the national anthem. At the national celebrations, all symbols are used, we are accustomed to them and we respect them as we have them. It does not appear that the people would be reluctant, for example, because they cannot sing two feats of hymn instead of one or that they would like to protest because they do not stand for about four minutes longer at celebrations to listen to the same melody twice. I would like to introduce this kind of news to someone who would obviously also like to turn the wheels of history back on time and content. Perhaps because he feels that he has missed the opportunity to set up some different frameworks or structures that this society or country has today. It is not the custom for serious countries to change their symbols without some tectonic political change. And lucky for you, they're not in sight today. The rationale for accepting this novel is explained by the need to strengthen patriotism, which is intended to translate the crowds by means of additional norming or improving symbols. I don't think these experiments are right. Domesticism is an emotion that is not encouraged by the fact that you are constantly inventing the improvement of symbols. Domesticism is born when people feel that the country they live in is not just a set of laws, taxes, bureaucratic barriers, and boring bureaucrats or seductive politicians, but the country is in the right sense of the word. A country that does not know and rewards only successful athletes, businessmen, people in positions and those who have succeeded in life or otherwise found themselves. The motherland is a mother to all her children, including those who are weak, kneeling in today’s cruel struggle for survival, certainly not because of their guilt. The true homeland does not leave any of its own behind, supporting the poor to stand on their feet, creating conditions for success. For such a country, based on the constitutional principles of the rule of law and the social state, we stand up for the Mir Cerar Party. We believe that this is the right path, the path of justice and solidarity in our society, through which we will come to a situation when patriotism is at a significantly higher level than it is today. I will not discuss the proposed articles for a long time. If I briefly touch only one which is prescribed by the amendment, this is Article 2 which wishes to instruct the Ljubljana City Municipality that it must hang the state flag wherever Ljubljana is present. In particular, to hang the state flag on the Ljubljana Castle. It should be pointed out that the MOL is already in line with the law, wherever possible, in addition to the municipal flag hanging, even before the Ljubljana Castle, there is a state flag hanging on drugs alongside the municipality in the first place. The law in force in Article 14 provides that the flag may be extravagant for the labelling of premises in which the ministries or other state authorities and local community bodies are established. Emphasis is on — easy, but not mandatory. We are now supposed to turn this into an obligation for the city council, which seems somewhat double-faced, as state institutions such as ministries do not have this obligation and would not receive it with a novelty. Obviously, someone really wants the state flag to always win right from the top of the tower of the Ljubljana Castle. By the way, it's set up for holidays and visits by foreign statesmen. It's not clear why someone always wants to see her there. When you leave this building, turn around and look up – there is no state flag on the roof of Parliament. Nor is it on the roof of the palace of the president of the state or government. But there are state flags on drugs before these buildings. As has already been said, the state flag is also hanged on a drug in front of the Ljubljana Castle next to the municipality. However, I do not think that the debate on the topic of state symbols in today's situation is a priority and that the time spent could be devoted to more pressing topics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u83	Mr Matjaž Han, SD, has the floor. Get Mrs. Eva Irgle ready, SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Let me first say that today we are 25 years after the independence of Slovenia, and before us we have a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the coat of arms, flag and anthem of the Republic of Slovenia and on the Slovenian National flag. I must say that this is very interesting and innovative by the proposer. I think that we are the only country in Europe and the world that, at a time of financial crisis, at a time when it is really difficult for people, we are talking about important things, not things that would change financial flows or contribute to people's better lives. If we want to talk about such things, to change them, it is one rule — we negotiate and we do it with consensus. This must be a broader consensus, a broader agreement and indeed a historical fact why we are changing it. However, since I am about clear from the proposaler's position and his pain that their ideals were not on the right side many years ago, we would now like to change these things with some laws, some articles and so on. To me, Matjaž Hanu, the star will always be a symbol of rebellion, the star will always be a symbol of those brave people who have defeated us, young generations, this independent Slovenia. I will always be proud to know the veterans of the wars for Slovenia, who have fought for me, my family that we have Slovenia today. And at the same time, no ideology will convince me that this was different. If we all want people together to respect the symbols, that people will respect the flag, that people will respect the country, we must, my dears from the SDS, avoid such discussions in the National Assembly, because the sentiments of politicians are working, gathering political peaks and gathering our allies, and do not choose the moment. Unlike some on the other side that you're reading us a star, a partisan battle and so on, I must say that I'm proud of it. And unlike my colleague from SDS, Mr Lisco, I have no problem with God with the church. I go to church many times when it's the holidays when the priest invites me, because I respect faith because I respect people who go to church, and I am also their representative in the National Assembly. Unlike you, because I have to say that I see a few on some partisan mark, on the mark of an event that marked our history. And when we change that, ladies and gentlemen, then it will be significantly easier in this country. And such excuses that an anthem does not conform to the Constitution, it is without connection! Ladies and gentlemen, everything is in accordance with the Constitution, everything is written by law. Such experiments as you are going today will not increase patriotism in Slovenia. We will increase our patriotism if we are first and foremost worthy and dignified by politicians. Unlike some, we, the Social Democrats, try to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u85	Mrs Eva Irgle, SDS, has the floor. Ms Ludmila Novak, Nova Slovenija, should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we place the value of patriotism as the fundamental value of our programme. Of course, we cannot own it, but I can say that there are also civil organisations in this sociopolitical space that do much for patriotism, for patriotism to be strengthened and maintained. And last but not least, the coat of arms, the flag and the anthem are the symbols that most express the patriotic value of every nation. I come from the Vipava Valley, more precisely from Vipava and there a few kilometers away is the village of Podnanos. By the way, let me mention that in Podnanos, for example, in 1962, Slovenian films were made on that beautiful day. And a few years ago, the podnados staged this at those scenes in Podnanos where this film took place. And I have to say, a lot of people came to see this and it was fantastic. So all praise once again to those who have prepared this. But in this village, in Podnanos another person was born who is of exceptional importance to the Slovenian nation for Slovenian culture. That was Stanko Premrl. Stanko Premrl was the one who made the hymn sound — a toast. He was a priest, a great church composer, who greatly helped develop Slovenian church music. And, as has already been said, he was also the one who made the Slovenian Zdravica sound. I received an invitation in my post office today to open the exhibition Zdravljica 1844-2014, because this year we are marking the 110th anniversary of the soundtrack and the 50th anniversary of the death of the composer Stank Premrl. It is certainly an extremely important mark, and I believe that Members and Members will work as hard as possible to ensure that Slovenian Health will always, if I may say so, be in our heart. Not only do athletes win when we hear it, but always and everywhere. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in its Article 6 defines as an anthem the entire Health Care. We've said this before. The whole cure. Mr. Boris Pahor, a remarkable Slovenian who has contributed greatly to the additional identity, including the cultural, Slovenian nation, said that in addition to the seventh kitt, not only would it be good, but it would also be right to carry out the second feat of the anthem of Zdravljica. And, of course, the question here rightly arises why always left-wing customers have such a problem to implement, if not fully anthem, as proposed by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, but at least with a second bouquet, and a seventh kitica. And no matter what colleague Han said before, I can say that the reason is solely one. And that is that France Prešeren, as our greatest poet, dared to write the word "God" several times in Health. No matter what you say next, it's true. And I can base that on more. In the previous term, when the President of the National Assembly was Mr Janko Weber, we had a national celebration, including the singing assembly of the Conservatory of Music and Ballet in Ljubljana under the leadership of Ambroz Chopi of Nova Gorica. It's a great, really great conductor. And this congregation wanted to perform the composition of Father's servant, Jerne. John Cankar is the one who wrote the Father's servant, Jerne. But the President of the National Assembly prohibited the implementation of this composition, even though it comes directly from a party of Social Democrats who are fighting for social rights – or at least they should. Because those who know this song know what they're talking about. He's talking about the fight for social rights. The fight that those who do what is right deserve a fair wage. But the president of the National Assembly has decided that you will not be there. And here I can commend the conductor's attitude, who resisted it and said, "Then we will not perform any more songs." Because I'm sorry, it's happened as if we were in another country and therefore I'm suggesting that mentality is still in the previous regime somewhere. You all know the notorious 133rd article of the Penal Code, and you know what it says about the previous country, of course. He imprisoned people if they told the truth out loud or just some critical statement about the power of the day. And here the samples are repeated, and that's the problem. But why did the former president of the National Assembly then decide not to sing that song? Not because of the social elements. Maybe he didn't even know them, I could say, maybe he doesn't even know it. That's an opportunity, too. But his advisors certainly gave him the wrong advice. But he chose not to do so because the Father reminds us too much of Christianity. Just as the former archbishop Anton Stress said at the time. Your father reminds us too much of Christianity. Although this space also stems from the Jewish-Christian tradition. But that's the problem, because we haven't broken up with a system that's obviously still present in these heads. And that's a big problem. I will support the coat of arms, the anthem and the flag. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u87	Ms Ludmila Novak, Nova Slovenije, has the floor. Get Mrs. Erika Girl ready, SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u88	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Minister and Minister, welcome! I myself was at an event where our great writer, Boris Pahor, pointed out the imperfections of our anthem, if I may say so, because we don't use the other guitar. And then I realized for myself that it would actually be really nice to put together the second and seventh bouquet. Why? The second talks about the Slovenians, about us, about our country, the seventh has an international dimension. They're both beautiful, they're all beautiful, and it seems to me that this connection would really express something. Of course, I know why this cat is not acceptable to some. Because the word "God" appears twice. Because we still don't know how to talk normally about this subject. Because we still do not want to acknowledge that our space, our ministry, is very connected with faith, with God, with Christianity, etc. There's something interesting, too. Stanko Premrl, composer, priest, teacher, author of music for the anthem, is the uncle of the national hero Janko Premrl Vojk, who was the brother of Rada Premrl Pahor, that is to say from Pahor's wife. A national hero, a nephew of Stan Pretzel, a composer, and the brother of Pahor's wife. And look, Stanko Premrl — priest, composer, probably Janko Premrl — partisan, was not significantly different from raised, but probably also in this sense. And we will also have to admit this together that the majority of the partisans were actually Christians, Catholics, because in fact the others were very few. And when we normally talk about this, about our history, about our past, about our faith, about our culture, about how we are different, that we also have different views, we can talk about our faith, we can talk about history, we can talk about national liberation, about revolution, and so on, when we talk about it more relaxedly, with respect, with understanding and also with recognition that something was good and something was also bad and something unacceptable, then we will do the most for present generations, for truth and for Slovenia. It grieves me that our most sacred national symbols, such as the anthem, the coat of arms and the flag, are fought here in such a way. We should discuss how we will more often raise the flag, how we will raise our children and young people, how we will love this country, what we will do, how we will do better, how we will do more often, or how we will explain all of our symbols, what they mean. This should be the main theme of our debates. And we can abuse all the symbols. A star can be abused, a cross can be abused, and a national assembly can also be abused for various manipulations, accusations, perverted speech, and so on. I wish it were as little as possible. In this way we will also enhance the reputation of the National Assembly and also the reputation of our country. Recently it was right here, too, Mr President was present, in the organisation of the Union of Friends of Youth Youth Meeting of primary and secondary schools, where they pointed out that they lacked civic education in secondary school. That's what the young said themselves. They said that in primary school, while in high school, when we could start to debate this more seriously, we are also preparing as voters, as responsible citizens, but this is lacking. For this reason, New Slovenia will today table a proposal for a debate in the Committee on Education on this subject, a proposal for the introduction of civic education in secondary schools as well. Look, we all have problems because young people don't participate in elections, because they don't quite understand what democracy means, the democratic system, and many times adults don't, so it's only right that this is the time to prepare for responsible citizenship. That is why I would like to discuss more often in this spirit what we can do, that we will all be more proud of our country, more responsible, and that we will also transfer these values to young generations. As I said before, the second whale and the seventh whale together would indeed be what expresses pride in our country, in our language, in our nation, and at the same time in this international dimension.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u89	Mrs Erika Dekleva, SMC, has the floor to prepare Mr Franz Jurša, Desus.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! The SDS party today resubmits the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the coat of arms, flag and anthem of the Republic of Slovenia and on the Slovenian National flag. It's the third time today. Like my colleague Jani, I wonder why they didn't do it when they ran the government when they had a coalition, so my question is in place. I don't know if they mean it or if it's just a matter of producing a lot of laws or maybe something else, but let's just leave it. I'm going to focus on totalitarian symbols in person. According to the SDS proposal, any public expression of ideas through or through totalitarian symbols should be strictly prohibited and strictly sanctioned. The bill prohibits the public magnification of all totalitarian regimes, their holders and state symbols. We have heard many times today that nowhere is defined which symbols are totalitarian and which are not. We have also heard that this time the Government does not support the amendment. They wrote that Article 3 of the proposal does not belong to this law and that it is non-systematic and is also controversial in respect of respect for the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. It is true that in some countries Communist symbols are legally prohibited, that is, in Hungary, in Poland. Discussions were held in Europe on the complete prohibition, as was the case with the Nazi symbols. However, in order to protect fundamental human rights, such as freedom of speech, the European Court of Human Rights has ruled against laws prohibiting political symbols in this regard. And that's why we can't accept such a dictatorship. Of course, in the same proposal, they did not clearly identify which symbols are so disturbed. Like many debaters in front of me, I imagine the problem is a red star. I'd like to say that, let's say, I don't see a personally rare star as a totalitarian symbol. I fear that today's debate actually offends people who fought for freedom under the red star. Of course, I do not want to ignore the value of national liberation, nor the people who were willing to give their lives for freedom, including my old dad, with a hat and a red star on it. I've always been, and I'm still proud of him. The red star, of course, is not a totalitarian symbol for me. But I find totalitarian all those who, in the name of their truth, deny the right of others to their truth. I'm also wondering why we would label a symbol as totalitarian. Could it be that under this sign, the regime under which he killed others, including the innocent, under this symbol? I believe that a colleague from New Slovenia would agree, but if so, then we must also ban the use of the cross as a symbol. For over a thousand years, millions have been killed in the name of the cross. I don't think it's a problem with symbols. The problem is always in people, and the problem is in action. The motif of the red star is an ancient symbol used by all major Middle Eastern religions. Often the red star was used on flags, in coat of arms, appears as part of industrial brands, logos of companies and products, many sports clubs, and finally the red five-point star is also found in nature, an example is the red star of the sea. I suggest we ban her, and if she does, we punish her severely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u91	Mr Franc Jurša, Desus, has the floor to prepare Mrs Anja Bah Žibert SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u92	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Nice greeting to the representatives of the government, as well as to you, of course, dear colleagues and colleagues! If I were to think about whether today's debate brings a positive result, I could quickly draw it under this line and say that we have once again one debate, which in some ways separates us in the National Assembly, as well as our citizens and citizens. If we look closely at the history of the debate on this subject, we quickly find that we had this debate in April 2011, that it was then introduced in February 2014 and the same year, that is to say at the end of 2014, this law, which is now being introduced in the first reading, of course with nuances or supplements. This supplement was mainly the prohibition of totalitarian symbols. The news in the current bill is that in Ljubljana they must join the local, municipal, city flag of the state flags. Around this I will not specifically sell out, but it is true that Ljubljana Castle, as someone in the position or debate has said, is a cultural monument of local importance. It is also true that the mayor of Ljubljana once bought it and that he gave it to Ljubljana or citizens and citizens of Ljubljana at the time and to all those who still live and will be in the future. I don't mind – it has also been said on which occasion the flag has become extravagant – even if it had been written in the law that there is a state flag here. An anthem. I respect Mr Pahor because it has been said earlier that Members and Members of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners do not respect academics, poets and writers. That's not true. We respect him, but that's his position. He just said that the hymn was supposed to be at his discretion the seventh and second kitrice of the Medici. The constitution actually says it's an hymn of Health. However, I would like to say that if we were to implement the entire Medici, it would take, of course, depending on the speed of implementation, about seven and a half minutes. Those who follow sports events – why do I mention sports events? Mainly because the anthems of different countries are often used at sports events and we see how long one anthem at this sport event is also taking. I think that this would probably be a little too much, not only at sports events, but also at other events that are being carried out and hymns are also being carried out as such. In the second verse, you mention that here is national consciousness, patriotism. For me, it's in this kit, which is now being implemented, too. I always have a respectful attitude towards our anthem, if possible, when I follow the anthem, even though I don't know how good a voice to sing. I am also pleased that Slovenians and Slovenians, who achieve such good sports results, mostly sing the Slovenian anthem. Last chance you had to see this at the world championship of our country's handball team. But you know, patriotism and consciousness aren't just an anthem, they're not just symbols, they're something else. Above all, it is our job to provide young people, young generations of jobs, with their incomes, to provide services to those over 50 years of age, because they are very difficult to obtain, those who need public health, which is not fully paid, are partly already. That we have a public education, which is also not payable, even though some of you will say it is partly. And also now private education, you know that a hundred percent of the public programme is paid by the state. These are all the things that matter. Most importantly, we have quite a social state in Slovenia and Slovenia. We must advocate even higher criteria for the social state, and we must also advocate that the wages of workers, the minimum wages of workers in our state's higher. This is also, in some ways, an accompanying process with economic growth or an increase in gross social product. If I were still talking about the duration and the kitties, I would probably just repeat myself, so I will conclude my debate at this point and say that I will not support this bill and that I appreciate that we have discussed something again today, which also divides us within the national assembly in the country itself, but does not unite us.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u93	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, SDS, has the floor. Get Mr Matjaž German ready, SD.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u94	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Colleagues and colleagues! A few days ago, with an electronic message, the lady asked me to speak about poverty in the National Assembly. He's right. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have repeatedly drawn attention to this pressing problem and, above all, to the reasons for this situation. Of course, poverty is most reflected in the severe hardships of people who do not know how to spend a day, a week, and a month. Next thing you know, they don't even get to look at each other. People are literally pressed against the wall, and they can't see the way out. After all, this government adds new tax burdens to them. Let me just remind you of the last load of student work that even the government has written down to reduce unemployment. It's a joke. And I'm talking about a very kind word. Unfortunately, this is not the only reflection of poverty in our society. Poverty is also reflected in other areas. It is true, dear colleague, in other areas as well. For example, in the field of values. We could also talk about spiritual poverty, and what is very and very sad for me is that we also live in the poverty of national consciousness. That is the case in some way, the debate today also speaks. We have been talking in this National Assembly for the third time about the necessary amendments to the Law on the coat of arms, flag and anthem of the Republic of Slovenia. I wonder, colleagues and colleagues, what is wrong with these proposals that they cannot be accepted. Is the implementation of the anthem in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia a problem for you? The hymn is therefore to be implemented as a whole in its constitutional form. Finally, the entire hymn would be heard at public festivals, at various festivities. The hymna, Your Honor, is one by herself, and this is the healer. I believe some of you want some other hymns. And here is the essential difference between us and those who think differently. In a way, I was not surprised by some of the outbreaks of individual Members today, so I can say that they were quite emotional. I am sad that some took the time to settle even with the academic Boris Pahor, who was clear about the anthem. What is causing you such pain in this proposal? Personally, when I perform an anthem, I am always overwhelmed by emotions. I'm glad to hear it. And I'd like to hear it again and again. What, then, is such a problem that we hear it fully? Why is it that whenever we talk about the fundamental symbols of our country, among them the coat of arms, flag and anthem, and they are somehow proof and confirmation of national consciousness, you scream about ideological themes? Unfortunately, another aspect of poverty of values. We just want to set clear limits between the magnification of all totalitarian regimes on the one hand and democratic society and values on the other. Is that a problem? I'm asking you honestly and honestly. We are talking about the problem of magnifying all the symbols of totalitarian regimes and publicly exalting their representatives. I emphasize -- all of them. You're talking about the red star. Then who's ideological here? Yes, there is indeed a fundamental difference between those who undermine this law and want to ban the magnification of all totalitarian symbols and those who do not support this law, because it is a difference in relation to all totalitarian regimes. Some of them are separated, and some of them are protected, and others are equalized. I cannot agree with one of the previous debaters, I think he was a colleague from Desus — patriotism is not something you have or do not have, and this is simply not something to agree with. You cultivate patriotism and nurture it. In fact, what message do we give to our children? Is it not desirable for us to hear the full cure? That it's bad if you were in school, at their events, two or more kitty anthems? That all the totalitarian regimes in the world aren't the same problem? What exactly do you want us to tell our children? We are certainly making a clear communication with this bill. While writing in her position about the proposal itself, the Government has shown a certain attitude towards such values, if you will excuse me. You know, it would be good to at least read the proposed text and the next time you read the words "Excessive, Our Greatest Poet," by the way, write it down correctly. The theme that we are discussing today is for me a reflection of the maturity of the nation and the fight against the poverty of national consciousness. Where are we? Let everyone answer. It would be good for everyone to ask themselves that question. But the poverty of national consciousness, the poverty of values, is, unfortunately, finally reflected in poverty as such. And I came to the beginning of what the lady was talking about in the e-mail. So let me just remind you who was running somewhere: Cubans to America or Americans to Cuba? Who was running somewhere: Yugoslavs to the west or citizens of these countries to Yugoslavia? Therefore, you know, the magnification of totalitarian regimes and their symbols on the one hand and on the other hand eating with the full spoon of the good of a democratic society and wearing the brands of different multinationals and then cheerfully waving with your so-called red star, at least morally controversial if any other word in today's debate is avoided. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u95	Mr Matjaž Germany, SD, has the floor to prepare Mr Jan Mahnic, SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that. The proposal of the bill refers to an anthem, refers to the provision on the use of totalitarian symbols, and this novel is extended by a provision which the Ljubljana Municipality commands, how and what about the suspension of flags at the Ljubljana Castle. The bill in some way points to two facts, whether the proposaler is not in fact aware of the priority we have in our country or just wants to provoke and open a non-productive debate. Not one, not the other, I don't know which one would be more appropriate. At the time we live, I'm going to answer in the name of my generation when they tell us, learn, be good, we're going to find you a job, and you're going to create your life, something's gone wrong. Instead of solving the problems of modern times, the problems of our generation, we deal with the problems that have already been faced in this Chamber at least three times in different governments, in different coalitions, and when each bidder would already understand that there is no consensus for the story to unfold according to his own wishes. Zdravljačko was confirmed by the former Republican Assembly as a Slovenian anthem by 29. 3. 1990, that is, before the conquest. A year ago, 27. 9. In 1989, the 12th amendment to the Constitution recorded a message: Himna Zdravica is an anthem of the socialist Republic of Slovenia. We can learn from this that the congregation's then-convocation, in modern times of Parliament, was in fact somewhat less conflict, in times of difficulty than we are now. In the most difficult times, and in the times at which we are most proud in our history, politics has been able to unify itself on key issues, regardless of what an individual thinks about the use of a coat of arms, anthem or flag. At the time of independence, we have already accepted this as our own, and we are cultivating it, and, as has been said many times, we are proud to expose it every time, especially in sports. With this proposal, I will again, I will point out, and this problem seems to be a priority in particular. In fact, the shift from everyday time to time makes it clear that politics has not yet matured to eliminate the spirits of the past, but if we do not do so, we will not deserve a better future. As a Primorec, I can say what has been exposed here many times today, the issue of the star, the use of the former symbols, that it was those who rescued us from the twenty-year totalitarian system called fascism. I would therefore suggest that we stop persecuting the social political system. If something has to be done in our history, it is possible to persecute individuals within the system and not to generalize everything. However, my proposal will be very specific on this issue as regards patriotism. Today, too, it has already been exposed that this should be strengthened and that only once we are united in this element will we be able to build a new future together. I also express my support for the importance of patriotism and country-building in educational institutions. Therefore, it might be expected from the applicant in the future that our national symbols will hang at the border crossings, as neighbouring countries can do, and in the greatest possible form in the exposed places, perhaps at our largest port, perhaps we could use them at our largest distributor's gas stations and thus strengthen our relationship to the country and to our symbols, not constantly searching for spirits from the past, from which we do not know how to move. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u97	Mr Jan Mahnic, SDS, has the floor. Get Mr. Uroš Prikl ready, Desus.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u98	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Let me start with the introductory words or sentences of the anthems of some members of the European Union. Croatia: Beautiful country, Great Britain: God save our Queen of Mercy, Italy: Brothers of Italy, Italy is up, France: Rise children of the country, there is a day of glory. Germany: Unity, Justice and Freedom for the German homeland, Spain: Long live Spain, Portugal: Heroes of the Sea, noble people, brave and immortal nation. I'm the one who goes around saying things like that, and with these versions, it's the anthems of other roses. What's ours? Let all the nations who long to see the day Beautiful and great for some European hymn live, we can propose it for the UN anthem. [[…]] There is no mention of the Slovenian homeland. I don't know why you have such a big problem if you had another pussy. "God our land, God lives all the Slovenian world." Is the word "God" a problem? What does the seventh kittie say? "Not the devil, but the neighbor will be the limiter." So mentioned is the devil, the opposite of God – does that bother you? [[…]] Now I don't know if you're obviously more committed to the devil than to God. We know what the left opinion is or what the socialists think, here we are, there's nothing above us. Unlike us conservatives, who believe that there is a God, that there is a heaven, the socialists always try to create the heavens on earth. But when socialists tried to create the heavens on earth, they created nothing but hell. And now here I'm listening to how we share, separate, with this topic. So who's sharing and separating here, who's talking about the red star? You're talking about the red star. Apparently you're comparing the red star with totalitarianism. The red star is not always a symbol of totalitarianism, nor do we suggest it. We suggest only that the forbidden symbols are totalitarian symbols of totalitarian countries. What kind of red star is this talk about? Let's get these terms straight. And I keep hearing that we're going ideologically fighting, that we're splitting up and that I know what else is going on. Do you know who is fighting ideologically in Slovenia? Left. Because if there was a right hand, then today we would not have children dressed in pioneers, then today we would not be paraded with Yugoslav and Soviet flags on Slovenian streets and markets. By the way, go, if you hope, with these flags to wave at Ban Jelačić Square. I would really like to see a hero who will go to the main market in Zagreb, the Ban Jelačić Square waving with the Yugoslav flag, I pay him a ticket down because he probably won't need it back. I don't know, ask Edward Pepper's family, or the end of the Jerne Molan family, two of the other territories that fell under the fire of the Yugoslav army, which had it, we sing the red star and so on and the other symbols of Yugoslavia, which you so promote and about which you like to talk about. In the evening there was an interesting article by Dragica Korada, or column, where the president of the State of Borut Pahor attacked. It reads: "Pahor's goal is to mark the 25th anniversary of the first democratic elections at the national celebration on April 8th, when the elite of power will especially celebrate the 25th anniversary of the first democratic elections, sit both red and black, angels and demons. Everyone else in this game is irrelevant. At best, they function as a change to settle foreign accounts and at worst as cannon food. Even if Pahor's difficult struggle to celebrate something, which would require serious public debate, if not the All-Slovenian point," says the point against the fact that the first democratic elections "we find it difficult to understand, the President should be congratulated at least on the date of the celebration. If you could think of your political orgy just two days earlier, so on April 6th, my neighbors on the left and on the right, who have served their bread for a good time as denarii in Austria, would easily say, "You see, on April 6th we were attacked by Germans, and on April 6th ours." And that's Slovenian patriotism? Are these the values of Slovenian independence that some sing? It's not divisive, it's more than that. This is published in the media, despises all independents, shuts them down, despises everything about Slovenia, as far as the Slovenian people are concerned, etc. You know, for us a country or a country, these are values for us, that's more for us. For us, unlike you, who treat people like some numbers in a state computer that you have a country to have something from it, if it owns a company, we'll take something else there. The country is much more than you imagine. I will support this proposal proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party. And there was fear, if it takes this to another republic, let it drive, the fact is that once this law will be passed.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u99	Mr Uroš Prikl, Desus, has the floor to prepare the mag. Bojana Muršič, SD.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u100	Your Honor, thank you very much for your word. I will try to be more calm, especially patient, and in any way very short, because I have extremely little time left. I am opposed to the bill mainly because it is not contrary to the Constitution. Above all, I would like to point out here that it is not possible to link patriotism with the position of the proposed law or amendment of the law. I'm proud of my anthem. I'm proud of all the symbols of this country. But these are not reasons to agree that the entire anthem, all the kitties that are very beautiful, at each event, should also be stuck at every sporting event. Maybe think about it. And to me, she's a very nice heel. As far as totalitarian symbols are concerned. Please don't let the red star bother you. I don't mind. For me, it's a symbol of resistance, of resistance against the invader. It reminds me of World War II. I think it is one of the brightest periods in history, not only of Slovenia, but of all European and wider nations. If this is any attack on this period, if any attack on the Union of Fighters, of which I am a proud member, is to be rejected most severely. And for a very short time, I still have a few seconds. With regard to the disclosure of the State flag at the Ljubljana Castle, given that it is not prohibited and that this practice is already being implemented, as we have heard, there is no proposal to interfere with the amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u101	The word has magic. Bojana Muršič, SD. Get Mr. Kamal Izidor Shaker ready, SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u102	Thank you very much, President. Ambassadors and Members of Parliament, Madam Secretary-General! The law tabled by the proposer has been repeated, as already mentioned, since 2010, always when the applicant is in opposition. While they were alone in power, they did not do so, as mentioned several times earlier today. First, I focus on an anthem that has been in force for more than 20 years and we Slovenians have accepted it as our own, as it is, and we are all very proud of it. Although the proposaler refers to the distinguished Slovenian writer Boris Pahor, he is only one of the dictions, as he relies solely on his vision. The entire implementation of the healer would thus lose its symbolic meaning. People would become restless when listening for 6 to 7 minutes, as the entire performance of Zdravica is essential for too long, especially in sports events or the excellent achievements achieved by our athletes. Although the applicant provides an acceptable exception so that the medicine can be listed in a reduced form, the change does not lead to the right path. A constitutional assessment of the Law on coat of arms, flag and anthem was also tabled years ago, where it was confirmed that the law in force was in conformity with the Constitution and did not hold the applicant’s claim that the current law was inconsistent with the Constitution. In doing so, I must mention that over the years there has been a constitutional custom that clearly states that the Slovenian national anthem is Prešeren's seventh feat, which Stanko Premrl has put in place. Also, changing state symbols and eroding flags, I do not think it is permissible to change overnight and it is necessary to maintain a historical view, since the flag in the castle tower marks that the then mayor of Dr. Hribar bought the castle from the owners of the city of Ljubljana. The Ljubljana Castle is a monument of local importance, and I see no reason why this should have to be changed, and at the entrance of the castle the flag of the Republic of Slovenia is also exaggerated. Finally, let me mention whether changes to this law are really necessary, or whether this law really solves the problems of children, young people, employees, unemployed persons, pensioners, disabled persons, entrepreneurs, craftsmen and the misery of employees who cannot survive their family through their work. This marriage doesn't solve any of this. But why are we doing this today for a few hours? It would be better to deal with legislation and the search for solutions to increase economic growth, create new jobs and save people who simply cannot live anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u103	Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker, SMC, has the floor. Prepare Mrs Iva Dimic, Nova Slovenija.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Messengers and Members! Yesterday at the beginning of this regular session, the drafter of this law said that he had proposed eight laws. This is one of them today, one of these eight laws, which is supposed to raise the issue of the unity of Slovenia and the question of patriotism. I recently took part in a public presentation of opinions on the foreign policy declaration. I am dizzy by the repeated phrase expressed by the participants, namely, that we must first decide our own identity. I think we did. Although I was too young to circle for, I think you decided December 1990, with a large majority. We've decided to follow our own path and make our own destiny. Whether we've made it well or not, I'm not gonna judge it because it's not the subject of this agenda item. I believe, however, that the state symbols established by the law must be respected, respected and enforced. Today's action, however, shows only disrespect for its own country by the proposers. Today, this respected assembly will spend four hours discussing three matters related to the identity of the Slovenian people according to the timetable. Four hours, whether the anthem is really an anthem or something. Article 6 of the Constitution clearly states that the hymn of our country is the Health Care. However, if the applicant considers that the law does not comply with the Constitution, I suggest that he turn to the relevant institution which considers these issues. Will the Slovenian flag or flag of our capital hang from the Ljubljana Castle? Please! Should the totalitarian regime be condemned or not? I think it's happening again and again in this national convention, and apparently no one hears it. The value of patriotism is extremely important, and all of us sitting here today are patriotic or supposed to be. In a presentation of the Group's position, the proposer noted that there was a confusion of values in Slovenia. I really agree with that. There's absolutely a mix-up of values. At the same time, I attach to the proposaler, and here I believe that you are one of those people who do this confusion over and over again. However, I believe that the purpose of this law is not patriotism, but the reopening of ideological themes. At a time that should be devoted to other issues, such as employment, housing problems and other or systemic solutions for Slovenia, it is entirely inappropriate for us to discuss today such a topic as we have on the table.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u105	Mrs Iva Dimic, New Slovenia, has the floor. Get Mrs. Janja Slug ready, SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The first day of the first day of school for first-graders is the first day they hear the official hymn in the public space. Slovenian National Anthem, Health. They also get a bouquet for home so they can get used to it. But what do I want to point out in my debate? Then this pussy stays lonely until the ninth grade of elementary school. Just fourteen days, probably after the curriculum, the nine students studied the Slovenian anthem or the whole of Zdravljica. It seems to me that for a deeper sense of patriotism in the upbringing of our children, our youth is not enough. Those who attend additional activities, interesting activities, may learn more from the singing congregation, and then everything else stays with the family, what they talk about in the family, what themes and songs they then give priority to and what they learn, it seems to me that it is necessary to talk about patriotism at multiple levels. And the school system is very important, the kind of patriotism we cultivate. My fellow workers, can we all ask ourselves together — colleagues, where is our patriotism? Where is our pride in a state of independence? We have national holidays, and we can probably count who hangs the flag. I can tell you that in these holidays, we have often counted independence and unity with my children where the flags are. We can figure it out, and I'm happy to say that these flags are getting more and more on the houses. It is said that patriotism also begins with us who are employed here, who are elected and here we are operating in this temple of democracy, where there should be some patriotism, the most cooperation. When I was first elected, I realized that that was not the case. Why? When I came to my office, I was expecting a Slovenian flag. And she wasn't. Why? Because the Slovenian flag in the National Assembly can only be reached by the leader of the parliamentary group or by some foreign political president, perhaps by the European Committee. The other committee presidents are also not entitled to the Slovenian flag in their premises. Not even a parliamentary office in the National Assembly. This is a very eloquent information to me about what patriotism means in this temple of democracy. When this law was first proposed, I took the initiative, and I will repeat it again, maybe it will just get caught, maybe the government representatives will hear it. I wish every grade of elementary school had a Slovenian flag. I think it's that minimum cost that this country can afford, and it would be nice to do that in the future, in every classroom, when you come in, when you come in, whoever comes in, sees that we're proud and that we have it in the classroom, and so do we Members, that we have it when we get any visits, that you have it in your room. I don't think it's such a cost that it couldn't be guaranteed. What patriotism means, I studied with my old dad, was born in 1902, and what the school system means. When he was 88 years old, he still had in mind the Cross at Savica. That's what they've been studying through the entire elementary school. And I think that we also have to teach our children throughout primary school and that when parents are involved, we find out what the text is and what it is about. And this is the beginning of our patriotism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u107	Ms Janja Sluga, SMC, has the floor to prepare Mrs Anita Koleša, SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u108	Thank you very much, President, for your word. All in attendance, all in attendance! Today we have heard several times that the present proposal on the novel of the Law on coat of arms, flag and anthem of the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovenian National flag The National Assembly has already dealt with the National Assembly twice, for the first time in 2011 and for the first time in 2014, that is, before not all year. At that time, the amendments to that law were also proposed by Members of today's largest opposition SDS party. And the changes were not accepted. However, if the two previous proposals are compared to today's, we find that there is really no significant difference between them, except that last year's proposal has been accompanied by provisions on the prohibition of the anointing of totalitarian symbols and, at the same time, provisions on the exaggeration of the national flag. But only in Ljubljana Castle. I wonder why you think those proposals were adopted twice, what are the reasons why you expect them to be adopted today. The SDS Group is based on the initiative of Mr Boris Pahor, one of the most prominent Slovenian academics, poets and writers, and we all agree on this, we have already found that today. But if we carefully read Mr. Pahor's proposal very carefully, he did not really propose the entire Zdravica for an anthem, as you misquote it today, but he suggested that the new text of the Slovenian anthem would be composed of the third and fourth verses of the second verse, which says: "God our country, God lives all the Slovenian world", which we have also found applies not to Slovenians, but to Slovenian peoples. And then also from the first four verses of Prešeren's seventh feline. Then immediately there's a problem with the melody, which is an essential part of our anthem. Why, I wonder, would we change more than a 20-year tradition, a tradition that we Slovenians have already internalized? In this proposal, the proponents turn to the value of patriotism, which is, here obviously, the entire national assembly, an extremely important value. The basic characteristic of each symbol and the symbol of each country is, of course, its durability. It is with its immutableness that such a symbol can take root in our consciousness as a symbol of the community and therefore be accepted by the community as something self-evident. The hymna initiates individual identification with the country, strengthens civil awareness and promotes some emotions that occur in the heart of each individual when he feels that he is part of and belongs to the community. That is why every and every intervention in changing anthem as a symbol must be very thoughtful and even generally acceptable. Will simply changing the text of the anthem actually help to increase patriotism among our citizens? Is that really enough to raise national confidence? In the state of our country today, in the situation in which our citizens are living today, I ask myself, is this really the time for such changes? Is there really no need to deal with anything else? As it has been exposed several times today, I also find it questionable to implement the whole of the Medici from the point of view of its duration. As we calculated, it would take a total of about 7 minutes and a half. Most of the time, our anthem is performed only as an instrument. What does that mean? To play the same tune eight times in a row. This would, in the opinion of the proposer, contribute to the rise of patriotism. I don't know. I can't agree with you here. The symbols, as I said before, do not change just every day, but especially because of some daily political needs. National symbols are usually exchanged in the event of major breakthroughs, with changes in social regulation. But today it's not happening to us. Last but not least, as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has pointed out in its opinion, it would be expected, in the interest of such changes, that the applicants would conduct a broader public debate before the law was introduced, obtain opinions from citizens, experts and then decide on the need for such changes. And this ignorance of the opinion of citizens can be seen in this proposal today. To prohibit the public use of the symbols of the so-called totalitarian regimes, and this is very likely to be a ban on the symbol of the star, even though you say no, in the opinion of the proponents, as I imagine it would be a symbol of the Yugoslav People's Army and of the communist terror, which must be done quickly. In this way, the SDS would simply get rid of the Ensigns at state celebrations because they consider them to be a symbol of the occupying army. At national celebrations, however, the banners of the Union of National Liberation Fighters are present. And in this context, the red star has a completely different meaning. The European Court of Human Rights had already established in 2008 the policy of the Hungarian Workers' Party that the red star did not symbolize the totalitarian regime. The red star is, for my understanding, a symbol of liberation from fascism, a symbol of partisanism. And for most Slovenian people, it is a symbol of freedom and rebellion. This symbol is linked to the roots of Slovenian statehood and cannot be changed. I would also like to point out what you have mentioned in article 3 of the proposed law, which is added to article 24a, where the speech on the prohibition of the use of symbols and the public magnification of totalitarian regimes is recorded in paragraph 1 and I now mention this part: 'and the public use of their past or present state symbols'. In the second paragraph, "the use of the Slovenian anthem, coat of arms or flag in connection with symbols, magnification or representatives referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be prohibited." At this point, I would ask myself what colleague Katič asked before me, does this really mean that at the partisan celebrations it will no longer be allowed to play the hymn so that the Slovenian flags of the present Slovenian state will no longer be allowed to be used? Won't the coat of arms be allowed because there will be a red star on the banners? The party shall place patriotism among the fundamental values of its programme. I hope that, among these values, it also puts honesty, respect for all human beings, and respect for the history of a particular nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u109	Ms. Anita Kolesh, SMC, has the floor. Prepare Mr Jani Möderndorfer, Alliance.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u110	Again the vines have been born, friend. The vines have been sweet to us. [[…]] Dear Mr President, distinguished Minister of Culture, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! I see that you all understand the Slovenian Constitution very well, because, with these words of quoting the first line of Zdravice, you did not all stand up respectfully, which you should do when performing the hymn. Because the Constitution says, "Animna Slovenije is a Zdravica." Prešernova Zdravljica is one of those songs that have experienced the greatest renown of various Slovenian composers. I'm told there are 25 of them, the most in our hearts is Premrlov. We played and sang in Slovenia, and considered it our anthem before the birth of our country. It was carried out on the most famous day in the history of Slovenia, on the day of independence, and despite some other ideas, which, of course, is completely understandable and legitimate, with the broad agreement of citizens and citizens, the famous tip was written into the constitution. It has certainly also been the case with the so-called constitutional custom, when a rule has already been drawn up in practice, which has become part of our constitutional system with great social consensus. And so more or less the people were satisfied with their hymn until 2011, when suddenly the Living nations were no longer in the way of some great Slovenian patriots. Indeed, many opposers do not have this hymn, but it is enough to make a national question out of one thought and break opinions – what the poet wanted to say with this bouquet. At the same time, it may be worth adding that, on the basis of a serious concern about our anthem, a sentence or two can be taken out of the context of opinions and the matter is already ripe for a change of law. And then try for the first time to sing the motherland, and try again to pour some oil again on overheated patriotic emotions, and now for the third time – and so perhaps until then as someone mentioned before me, when the Slovenians will have to start learning all their good old songs in a new way. But if they don't know them, they can have other high fines. So now we're supposed to be singing all eight kitties, here and there, exactly when we don't know, just second and seventh. Why else? Why not, for example, the fourth? Let me read it to you, if you don't remember it again: "Unitity, happiness, reconciliation to return to us! The child who has glory, let them all reach into their hands, that power and honor may be with her, when they are before us, again ours shall be our own!" So why isn't this amazing ode getting it done? Or would any organizer of the celebration, perhaps even the performer, have chosen his guitar and, as the proposalr's representative, Mr. Lisec, pointed out, in explanation of the idea a year ago, for example, Tini Maze could be playing with victory – she would probably sing herself – the fifth kitica, as you know: "God lives you Slovenke!" I will not be too long on any further patriotic provisions to amend the law. A few of me hope that the applicants may not be serious, however, leads to the fact that they have put, forgive, a written and nomotechnic splinter into the process. This means that the matter was handled with their left hand, without the intention of really wanting Members to convince them of their confused proposals. I'd rather believe that than my respectable colleagues not knowing how to spell correctly. And therefore perhaps Prešeren, if he were among us now, would only be a perceptive remark: "Not every Pahor is a champion, but not every fox is a fox."
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u111	Mr Jani Möderndorfer, Alliance, has the floor. Mr. Tomaž Lisec, let the proposer prepare himself.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u112	In these few hours, we have listened to some truths about these crests, symbols, signs, and all the things the proponents really want — just to remember two truths; that is their truth and their pain. Of course, the problem is, or so I will say, otherwise, nothing is wrong if you repeat it and say it all out loud until, of course, you want to do it with your despair, then even legalize it. In fact, then, this seriously means the problem of giving up some of our values. I will start from behind where Mr Lisec actually played a little bit with the idea of history, czech, which all the flags used to hang on this Ljubljana Castle. The Ljubljana Castle did not only hang Yugoslav flags, but also hung from the monarchy, both the SHS, to the Austro-Hungarian and, of course, every time owners who managed or owned this castle. More importantly, it is not which flag hung in the past on this castle, but what this castle really means to Ljubljana, to the Slovenians and to this space today. What it meant in 1905 was that the then mayor Ivan Hribar simply decided to make a move for which none of February had. In fact, in 1905 the then National Assembly, or representatives of the state, sold the castle. And this castle was on sale to private people. Of course, Hribar estimated that, of course, the country was irresponsible in dealing with this castle because they did not even know what this city really meant. And so with his own money, he bought the castle in the name of the city and, of course, returned it to the city. Now what's more important is that I heard one speaker here screaming out of desperation, because he didn't know what to do anymore, and he was counting the arrow on the mayor. This castle, the Ljubljana Castle, is not the property of the current mayor, nor is it owned by any mayor, but at least by those who today shout that something with the law must hang on this Ljubljana Castle, but is owned by the city of Ljubljana, Ljubljana and Ljubljana. Of course, the question is that a matter needs to be settled and, of course, it has all the right. Mr Lisec also said that if the National Assembly decided to do so, it would be his decision. I think, of course, and I am convinced that it is right to know that certain values that have already been created in the past have proved to be correct that it is not valid to cut them down and intervene in this direction, even to prohibit the hanging of the Ljubljana flag there. For this step means this, of course, if the Slovenian flag hangs for 356 days, Mr Lisec, then there will be no more Ljubljana flag. And above all, a symbol and a reminder and a memory! Today, the Ljubljana flag hangs in a reminder of the history that has taken place. What would Slovenia mean or why would this Ljubljana Castle symbolize Slovenia? Please, these were unusual prisons. There was only torture. It is true, however, that since 1905 it has started to change in Ljubljana Castle and today it means the center of culture, Ljubljana. And Ljubljana is proud when the Slovenian flag hangs in Ljubljana Castle, but always when the time is set: State holidays, visits to all Februarys coming to Ljubljana to be welcomed by the city of Ljubljana in this country. And that's why making fun of these events and so easily with one swing simply arranged that it will hang there, right there, the Slovenian flag, of course, is irresponsible. In Ljubljana they hang flags everywhere, at all state institutions, buildings, at all schools, at all kindergartens, the Congress Square is a symbolic place for the Slovenian flag, where the history took place, and not least at all celebrations and events, wherever they take place in Ljubljana. Please do not idealize and, of course, make the Ljubljana Castle idealistically your family, which is simply not. And leave Ljubljana to Ljubljana. First of all, leave the mayors out of this because they have nothing to do with it. They represent the legal person and must sign if they have anything to be mayors, Ljubljana, such a letter and a message to the National Assembly. I'd sign it exactly the same, but I'd write it even more harshly.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u113	The speaker has the floor, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u114	Thank you, President, for your word. Allow me because in the meantime I did not comment on the implementation of individual Members in order to comment on certain matters or certain debates. I hope I can take it too, that I see my position on certain debates. First of all, with regard to the words of the Minister. He asked who would determine what the totalitarian symbol was. In my opinion, it is very dangerous to have someone who is a minister in the Slovenian government within the European space. Who will determine what is totalitarian? However, when we discuss on individual committees, even at the meetings of the National Assembly on extremists, who are doing crimes under these totalitarian symbols, we are all appalled at how this is happening. Now all of a sudden, totalitarian symbols of what they are. It's like history, especially the one about 20. For centuries, she's learned nothing, and today was just another talk about the star. I believe that, I dare say, at least half of this National Assembly is probably more old than it is partying or otherwise burdened with this star, whether it has negative feelings or positive feelings. But, Your Honor, it's not the coat of arms, the anthem and the red star, it's the flag. We had a flag that was a red star and we had 25. 6. 1991 — What Have We Done? We put the flag down and put the Slovenian flag up. And I really wanted to point out, as a proposaler, several times in my introduction, that we are talking about totalitarian symbols and not just the red star. And if most of today's debaters see the only problem in the star, it's obviously the problem. Unfortunately, you all forget together that we also have other totalitarian symbols. Dear Minister, go to Zagreb, go to Germany, go somewhere else, ask other European nations what totalitarian symbols are for them. Obviously only in our country must we not know what they are, nor should we change legislation that at least partially regulates this area. Mr. Kopmeyer of Desus said in the introduction, "We are changing state symbols." Once again, the coat of arms remains the same as it is, although there are initiatives that those coat of arms that are in our flag are problematic, but the coat of arms remain the same as it is. The flag stays the way it is. But there were suggestions to change them because of practical experience, because they replace us everywhere with different countries, but because of some colors they don't fit, some would have a green color instead of red, some would have a green color instead of a green one instead of something I don't know, but no, let's leave the flag clean. The only thing we change is that instead of the exclusive implementation of the seventh kitica of Zdravljica, in accordance with our proposal, the hymn is fully performed at the national and festivals, i.e. the whole, at the national festivals of the Republic of Slovenia. Today it is as if every day we have a state holiday and the implementation of the Slovenian anthem of all eight kitties. And several times a year, standing for those 5, 6 or 7 minutes is for an average citizen, and unfortunately, I also find that the average Member is not aware of any tragedy. We sit for two hours at national celebrations, and the problem is five, six minutes when we have to show our country, our country. We also wrote: "On other occasions, it can also be used in a short form, which includes the second and seventh bouquet of songs." We told you why the other cat. The only one who speaks or speaks the most about Slovenia. About us, about the Slovenians, but no, we have a 7th kit, because everyone else is the biggest losers, and we're not going to talk about the Slovenians. About the anthem of the Republic of Slovenia. Earlier, colleague Jan Mahnic said how the anthems of certain other European countries begin. Everything's "we" everywhere, the only thing we have is "everyone else" and we're on the side track somewhere. In short, we don't change state symbols, we just want to make sure that, if possible, at national celebrations, the whole whale and, on other occasions, 2nd and 7th kitties. And I ask the Government whether every time Slovenian athletes win medals, they will start disputes where they spin, probably mainly for practical reasons, two kitts. Is that unconstitutional? I ask the Government if this proposal of ours is not good, then what is it when we hear two kittens in all international competitions and we are all proud of our athletes. Then it's not a problem? If this is a problem today, it's also a problem and it's unconstitutional. Then forward, of course, several times it was said, it is not a matter of priority. I would never be a priority for you, sir. Why did we come back in this term with this law? Because we may have knocked, but I will hope to say, on the patriotism of SMC Members, that they may be a little different from those who sat in this middle part of the National Assembly and that we will find most of the votes to change this law a little. Here, if we accept it today for further consideration, only because we turn the penalties from tolars into euro. Because I hope you know that we have the euro and that we are in the European Union and that the Tolars and Yugoslavia are past stories. Never gonna be a priority for you, never! And then how we should deal with the economy, the education, and I don't know what. I hope you're also concerned that the SDS are in opposition. And even at this meeting of the National Assembly, most of the legal measures we have taken are ours. If you care so much about poor children, about education, about social, about the economy, about the fiscal rule – even the fiscal rule you have drawn up is inconsistent with the constitution. Where are the other measures of marriage? Otherwise, a large majority of me, especially local economists, says, "Tomaž, be quiet, don't talk about economic measures, because this government every law that prepares is even worse than those laws that were from the previous government." So this is your failure to enforce laws or not to produce laws that you think are essential, good for the average Slovenian and Slovenian. And today we were talking about the star and the partisans. Only two, three, and mostly from these parts, and we were talking, what was it in 1990? We're all proud of the partisans. Of course, I believe you are. I am not burdened with this, and my parents are born after the end of World War II and I have no problems, even though I come from Dolenjska, because two years ago a colleague said to me, "Oh, you're Dolenjec, and you're all patriots." That's Slovenian logic. We were all talking about partisans today. Who spoke of the aggressors in 1990, and what did they have on their uniforms? What were they wearing on their head, what were they wearing on the tanks? Did they have a baby or a red star? And such symbols must be forbidden to wave joyfully in 2015 at various famous celebrations in the Colossae, at various events. And you're treating us like radicals. We have said well that the prohibition on the use of symbols does not apply for the purposes of education, in accordance with the educational programme. Now we will not take the radio and edging and remove it from the textbooks, whatever reminds us of the totalitarian symbols, especially the star, or everyone else, because at least in the history books we would probably have a big problem with how to edit textbooks from 1941 on. Then it does not apply to media information, we can still talk, it is not blasphemous to say "star, swastika," if the media so desire the story of no problem. It's not a cultural event. Many of my colleagues said to me, "Let's let the Dražgos put an end to you!" I say, "Let them." Let them be cultural, civilisational, but not challenging and then making symbols there, which are obviously a key problem of this Article, when they do not know how to explain this second paragraph: "The use of Slovenian hymens in connection with the symbols of magnification and representatives of the preceding paragraph is prohibited" Go see what pictures, I admit, I have never been in Dražgoša, but go see what draw we have from the flags. They are neither Slovenian nor Yugoslav, I do not know which, but we have on one flag sickle and hammer and star and Slovenian coat of arms. This is forbidden under our proposal for a law. That someone can afford to put a star or sickle on the back of a Slovenian home, and with this cheerful wave. These are the winnings and they would be prohibited by our proposal for a law. Apparently, however, most of us will still be able to wave on Slovenian streets with such winnings. Then, as I said before, the problem is the implementation of the Slovenian anthem. I'm not gonna do it again. If it is a problem for any of us Members, or if the Slovenian is to stand 6 or 7 minutes twice a year at a national celebration, even in the event of a favourable implementation of the Health Care Service, then we have a real problem with Slovenian patriotism. And as I said before, Mr. Jurša said, yes at sports events will be the problem of the entire anthem. No, Mr Jurša, it can also be used in short form, second and seventh. What they are doing is all to honor our athletes, the only obvious Slovenia, when we have a world champion, I don't know, at some home competition, but the problem will be to perform two kitties and we will probably give a constitutional assessment of whether two kitties or just one. I explained why it is very important to us, but obviously it is blasphemous for you, because it speaks of Slovenia and God forbid to speak about God, given that I still hope that the Slovenians are part of the Western civilisation world and so far most of our citizens still have some faith. Finally, this faith, especially in our country, disappears. I'm saying, if not the other way around, let's go to second treatment only by perhaps resolving the penal provisions of this law. If you think our fines are too large, too sharp and too radical, you are a coalition, give an amendment, say, look, a market inspection that is obviously the only one that can handle the use of our national symbols, but at least some symbolic punishment, and I will not now go into this subject, whether you will fill the Slovenian budget or not, given the increasingly frequent use of these former totalitarian symbols, it would probably also come from this amount. Then Mrs. Slug – why this marriage again. As I said before, because we were hoping for the SMC's understanding as a new policy, we could at least resolve these transitional criminal provisions. Emotions, said Mrs. Mursic from SD. How would our citizens be restless if they stood by the anthem for six minutes? Our citizens would be restless if they stood by the anthem. I think the lady has told us all about what she thinks about our anthem, about our symbols. Of course, once again it was emphasized that it was not the right time again, but it was never the right time. Moreover, it has been said that we are ignorant of the opinion of the citizens, and then you put Mr Boris Pahor in the corner as one scoundrel, because he can tell his opinion otherwise, but we will decide who we will give, while this government beats the government's opinion in three months under all the laws, to the contrary. 5. 1. get all the principals of primary schools in Slovenia to take with 1. 1. and they must do something. Did anyone ask the principals? Nobody. Did anyone ask the students? Nobody. Did anyone ask their parents? Nobody. And it's full of these marriage anomalies that you're proposing in that little package of laws you're proposing. I'm suggesting to SMC that every marriage gets a referendum, and we go on vacation, and if we do that, I'll give up my salary if you do. To conclude, Mr Möderndorfer remains. I understand his fear that the Slovenian flag would also win in Ljubljana Castle, unlike other capitals, because Ljubljana is the capital of Ljubljana only when they need something from the country in accordance with the Main City Act. However, in order to establish in the National Assembly that Ljubljana as the capital also has an additional duty under this law, this is unacceptable to them. In short, as long as we have such debates in the sense of still defending these metals, revolutions, whether under the red star or against any other totalitarian symbols, by then any debate on economic problems will be meaningless, as we will still be pressing our heads in the previous system, while normal legal and democratic Europe has long since cleaned this up. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u115	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I see it's an interest. If he would also like to discuss the proposal's representative, Tomaž Lisec, and the representative of the Government, please apply with a raise of hands. Please, for your application. Each debater has five minutes of time available. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u116	Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! According to my opinion, this bill is somehow depressed, not in the context of events that have taken place in Slovenia. We have now heard in the debate that the anthem and the flag and the ossuary symbols of the country are accepted at some very crucial historical events. And today, the last years of such an event are not in Slovenia. And one of the important attributes of these symbols is that they are permanent, that they last, but not that they change in as short a time as 20, for example 24, 25 years. If we imagine one hypothetical situation, next week an important state event, a visit to a foreign country representative, can come to any important victory of our athletes and when playing the Slovenian anthem, someone will ask: Yes, since when do you have one?" Yeah, last time we changed it was a week ago. I don't think that's how we're supposed to do it, that we have to stick to that rule, that the constitution is something you have to change with a shaking hand, and I'm saying you can't change it at all. We have adopted an anthem, in fact those who were then in a position to make legal decisions. And part of this anthem is also this tradition, which must just continue and we cannot stop it today, not in ten years, but perhaps at some extremely crucial event that will justify changing our view of the whole country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u117	Thank you. Mr. Jernej Vrtovec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u118	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Madam Vice President! As a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, I want to enrich our national consciousness. That is why I support this amendment of the law. At the same time, I would like to highlight our domestic education, which, of course, starts both in schools and in the family. And in schools, ladies and gentlemen, there is too little. We learn too little or learn our youngest Slovenian anthem, such as Slovenian symbols. They also learn little about the history of the creation of our independent Slovenia. This usually comes into the textbooks at the end of the school year, and many times the professors say that, since we are at the end, we will do it more superficially. That's the key problem. And if we want to strengthen our domestic consciousness, I agree with those, we will not only strengthen it with some law, but we must look at it in an integrated way. Completely. Education and education. And let's have this country, after all, we like it ourselves. That's why once again, all totalitarian regimes that end are all the same. And if some totalitarian symbol offends the feelings of another man, who am I to use it. And if either a swastika or a red star offends someone else's feelings, why use them? Why? Why insult others? Why cultivate intolerance to others in this way? And from this debate it was clear exactly what is reflected in Slovenian society, the conceptual differences in perception of what is right and what is wrong, that we are fighting over totalitarianism instead of drawing this line, and saying, "They are the same." And in this way, even if we can achieve this once, that we can condemn all totalitarian regimes, we will make it easier to live, and our development will be easier, our progress. But until we do so, we will always be dealing with this thing in this House, and we will pass it on to our youngest and, therefore, to our homeland consciousness, there will be no patriotism. I will support this marriage because it brings no harm. If I brought something bad, I wouldn't support it. I will therefore support it because it is a good proposal to strengthen the national consciousness between Slovenians and ultimately, if a citizen has too little of that domestic sense, if he cares about his country, how we can expect an advanced country, a state of development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u119	Thank you. Mr Branko Grimes has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. Today was an excellent debate to see who is who in Slovenia after masks fall. Let's say the use of untruths. Earlier, one of the ruling coalitions had said that the Constitutional Court had already ruled on the Law on coat of arms and flag and that it had found that it was in full conformity with the Constitution, that there was no non-compliance. And I went into the browser a little bit, because from memory, I thought it wasn't exactly true. And look at him, schmenta, decision UI 320/12, which only the seeker finds in relation to the Law on the coat of arms, anthem and the flag of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, reads: "There has been no judgment because the case has been dismissed because the proposer has not shown legal interest." End of quote. Whether or not it is in accordance with the Constitution, the Constitutional Court has yet to judge. And the one who claimed to be something completely different was deceiving me not to say it at home. If such methods are, of course, used, then it is difficult to discuss. But I must say that I regret even more endlessly what has been happening here today with regard to the great writer and Slovenian Boris Pahor. Two Members, not just one, could say that One is none, but twice is both — they took the right to make grave fun of Boris Pahor, if not every Pahor Pahor and something similar that had been said before. You know, Boris Pahor devoted his whole life to the struggle for the ministry, and he was not afraid of anything, and he dedicated a hundred years of his life to it and became a citizen of Europe. Which is an extraordinary confession! And as such, as a great man, he will go into history. But those who make fun of him will go into history as small people, unworthy functions that you perform. And I am extremely sorry that something like this is happening in the Slovenian Parliament. In doing so, there is much more absurdity, and in those who have done so, you declare yourselves left-wing. Boris Pahor himself declares himself a leftist and has always declared himself a leftist, but he is a man who knows what his country is, a man who knows what Slovenia is, who can appreciate his country. And when we first discussed this law that I wrote, I don't know, three years ago, he sent a suicide note. So much for the knowledge of those who claim that this is not what Boris Pahor wanted. He wanted the hymn to be used as it was written in the constitution - there is no doubt about it and then there should be no doubt – and that as a short form it is used with an additional kit, which specifically highlights national pride, what is missing in the current form, in particular compared to others. This is his proposal, which should be respected even if you do not accept it. That you're making a fool out of a man, and that, I'm sorry, is beyond all bounds. After all, it is not surprising that everything is as well changed here as it was when it was claimed that everything is in order in Ljubljana. If we have received, and I have shown this earlier, a letter from the Ljubljana mayor, I quote once again, "that he sees no reason for the castle to have a Slovenian flag hanging all the time". If he were worth something as mayor of the capital, he would have done it right away if he hadn't thought of it before. You can hang both flags, for example, Ljubljana hangs on each side of the tower down, and Slovenian on a jamborous win in pride of the whole country of Slovenia, as is normal in all other countries. That is what your Minister has discussed on my question, Mr Karl Erjavec, at the last meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy. I would like to know how he will comment on the statements made by his own Member. And in the end, of course, the use of those symbols from history that are rightly proud of when it comes to cultural, historical things is allowed. It is no longer possible, however, that the entire state summit at the national celebration without the single Slovenian flag would be served in the hall under the red flag and the image of Che Guevara, because such a country is a red exot in the eyes of the foreign. From such a country all foreign investors, all foreigners who want to look for business partners, run away as long as possible. And because of this attitude towards your own country, you have established Slovenia in the eyes of abroad as a red exot, all [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u121	I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to decide that the draft law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 6th item of the agenda, in accordance with the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments and supplements to the media law. The draft law was submitted for consideration by a group of twenty-one Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of twenty-one Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed bill to Mr Mag. Mark Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u122	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues! The media are one of the foundations of any democratically regulated society that ensures the dissemination of information as an important condition for its development. The operation of the media also ensures the dissemination of the Slovenian word and helps to foster patriotism and a positive attitude towards their own country and language. In the absence of domestic creativity, the media become a promoter of foreign cultural contexts, a generator of the deterioration of national identity, self-image and finally the sovereignty of the state and nation. Slovenian music shares at commercial radio stations barely reach the current legal obligation, a limit of 20% of the broadcasting time, which is dedicated to Slovenian music. To a large extent, it is an abuse of currently-lawed music quotas, as Slovenian music is played in more than 90% during the night. Instead of the programming diversity and wide presentation of all music types of domestic music within these percentages, we listen to the repetition of the same musical performances for the widest range of listeners. Following the claim of the Slovenian Music Union, Slovenian music creativity and discography were also in serious crisis, both substantive and material. International comparisons show that Slovenia has relatively poorly taken care of its own musical creativity with the prescribed percentages compared to other European countries. Some European countries with the most powerful European discographic industries do not need legal quotas, and some countries with larger music markets, such as Slovenia, do not require much more legally required minimum levels of national music. The proposed changes would limit such abuses and allow the development of quality Slovenian music of different types. In the field of audiovisual works, too, we can see that the requirement to record and verify the fulfilment of the prescribed quotas for audiovisual works in the current legislation is impossible to implement in practice. Due to the lack of accurate data, effective controls are disabled and, consequently, there is a risk that the issuer does not respect the prescribed quotas, which leads to poor audiovisual production. With the proposed more precise definitions, we also want to limit abuses in this area. The proposal for amendments and the amendment of the law will indirectly encourage the creativity of Slovenian musicians as well as audiovisual creators. Due to the greater share of broadcasting time available for Slovenian music, it will be possible to present a larger number of Slovenian musicians and a larger number of Slovenian musical types, resulting in a greater variety of such programming content and higher quality of domestic artists, and resulting in new jobs. This will also encourage the development of Slovenian music creativity as a promising economic sector in Slovenia and indirectly in the European Union. The proposal to amend the law also limits the abuse of currently-lawed quotas, since the quota is legal at two intervals instead of a daily one. Such a quality and time-consuming quota is also one of the key protections for uninterrupted music creation in the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u123	Thank you. For an introductory explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Ms Mag. Juliani Bizjak Mlakar, Minister of Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia discussed the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Media at its meeting on 22 January this year. She decided to give a negative opinion on this proposal. Let us take a closer look at the reasons for the rejection. The proposal for the amendment does not comply with the Resolution on the National Programme for Culture 2014-2017 adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 27. 11. 2013 and foresees a comprehensive revision of media legislation on the basis of a pre-prepared media strategy. The proposal for a new law is prepared without prior analysis and without a comprehensive solution to the problems, which is, inter alia, the purpose of the strategy. It only proposes individual partial changes to the existing law, and the consequences are not examined. It brings a new controversial definition of audiovisual works. The provisions on the prescribed proportion of Slovenian music and Slovenian audiovisual works are being amended and the consequences of this proposal have not been examined. This part refers in particular to RTV Slovenia. A register of independent producers is being introduced, but the provisions governing this area are very weak. The law has many other shortcomings. The additional problem is that there was no professional and other interested public involved in the consideration of the proposal for a new law, and above all, the proposal is without analysis of the consequences of the proposals that the professional public draws attention to, which, due to the lack of analysis, cannot be either contradicted or confirmed. The revision of media legislation requires the preparation and adoption of a national strategic document which will provide guidance for the development of the media landscape in the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of an analysis of the existing situation. The need for a strategic document is also confirmed by the fact that all attempts to adopt new media legislation so far have failed. A national strategy is needed in this area, which would clearly define public interest in the field of media. In the case of partial proposals such as those under consideration, the consequences of the proposals must be examined. The area of ensuring the prescribed shares of Slovenian music in radio and television programmes, or Slovenian audiovisual parts of television programmes, is certainly necessary to renovate, and in this work we agree with the efforts of the proposers of the amendment to the law. The public interest, followed by the Government and the Ministry of Culture, is, as much quality Slovenian music as possible at the time of maximum listening and as many quality Slovenian audiovisual works as possible during the time of maximum viewing. However, on the question of whether these parts are sufficient, the drafter does not have analyses, data and also unsatisfactory arrangements. However, certain data and warnings show that serious problems may arise in providing sufficient quantities of quality content. Even at the Ministry, we are not satisfied that some radio houses use the current law in order to broadcast the prescribed parts of Slovenian music only at night and that in finding listeners or viewers, the quality of content deteriorates. However, the proposed amendment does not fully address and would cause many other problems. With the law under study, it could cause harm to those who have so far made the most efforts for national interest. Many questions the applicant does not have satisfactory answers and evidence. The proposal for a new law, which is extremely short, contains only six articles, the areas under consideration are not fully regulated, as it does not offer any solutions to key problems, but in areas where it proposes changes, these are unexamined and such that the current situation may not deteriorate too well. The proposal for the amendment therefore has a number of shortcomings, which we will hear more about today and which are the reason for the rejection of the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Slovenia. Regardless of the above, we thank the proposers for their good intentions and constructive proposals in terms of direction towards increasing the prescribed share of Slovenian production that we will be [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Amendments. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u125	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party Mir Cerar will be presented by Dr Dragan Matić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u126	Madam President, Madam Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Let me begin by saying that we will not support the news of the Media Law proposed by SDS in the Parliamentary Group of the Mir Cerar Party. We note, however, that the SDS has become self-critical because it is clear that part of the Media Act adopted by the Government of Janez Janša in 2006 does not produce satisfactory results. At the same time, it should be noted that the law is also problematic in other areas and deserves comprehensive renovations, not only in the four articles that the SDS would now like to amend and relate to the definition and play of audiovisual works and the mandatory quotas for the production of Slovenian music or the production of Slovenian creators and creators. We believe that it is high time, in accordance with the National Programme for Culture, to complete an analysis of the media landscape, which has already been made to a considerable extent, and to adopt the Strategy of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of media on the basis of it. The adoption of partial changes in system legislation, which measure only the increase in mandatory production quotas and which do not systematically cover both the problems of promoting quality works and the performance of audiovisual works, seems inappropriate to us, especially since, given the accompanying material submitted, it seems that the proposed legislative changes not only do not have the basis in the analysis of the area to improve but are written without the basic knowledge of the actual situation, which I will explain further. In the SMC Group, we find the proposed novelties problematic for the following reasons. The amendment to Article 68(1) of the novel is not appropriate because it defines audiovisual works as works which are in any way expressed as individual creations in the field of literature, science and art and has been written for them by a synopsis or scenario, meaning that other audiovisual creations other than literature, science or art are not audiovisual works. What, for example, is a documentary on a particular social issue? The animated film is another example, which is not sufficiently covered by the definition of the concept. There's no script for him, but there's no storyboard. Similarly, video clips, talk shows, television shows, and so on remain out of definition. The proposal thus completely ignores or overruns two laws defining audiovisual work, the Slovenian Film Centre Act and the Copyright and Related Rights Act. As a result, the uncoordinated definition of audiovisual work would create chaos in the exercise of rights in public tendering for audiovisual works. Article 2 has a partially justified basis in the sense that Slovenian music should also be played during the daytime and not only mostly in the nighttime, which unfortunately is now happening. We agree that this should be supplemented or rectified in order to prevent the act from being used for the purpose of the law following the amendment of the Media Law. However, it is a problematic provision in the third paragraph, requiring the proportion of productions of Slovenian creators under 5 years of age, because it is not clear whether there are enough quality works that are under 5 years of age and would meet this requirement. On the other hand, as has already been said, there is no provision in terms of targeted promotion of the performance of quality works by new young creators. With regard to the provision relating to mandatory broadcasting quotas, the Public Institute of RTV Slovenia notes, quote: "The implementation of the proposed changes in the media landscape would lead to real devastation and would completely undermine the work of media creators." Also: "It is impossible to attach to the applicant that Slovenian music, in particular that has been created in the last 5 years, is the criterion that is supposed to nurture and maintain a high level of Slovenian language." If we move on to Article 3 of the novel, we see that the SDS proposes to increase the quota of Slovenian audiovisual parts of each TV programme. This seems questionable, however, as to how the number of shares will be monitored when the criterion is laid down to count the premiere playback and the first repetition for broadcasts over 5 years of age and one performance within 5 years. Abuses appear to be even more frequent if the eligibility criteria for the works presented appear to be exacerbated in such a rather complex way. Article 4 of the proposed novel is most questionable of all, since the implementation of the legal requirement at the lower threshold of 600 hours of prime Slovenian audiovisual works on RTV Slovenia and at least 150 hours of prime Slovenian audiovisual works by independent producers is impossible. It is completely inconsistent with the budgetary capabilities and realistic financial frameworks in which Slovenian film or audiovisual production takes place. For the realisation of film and audiovisual works, the Ministry of Culture has provided around €3 million per year for several years, which is enough to produce a maximum of 5 films and a maximum of 15 audiovisual works. In addition, if we add up to 1.7 million euros that RTV Slovenia has to devote to cinematographic films after the obligation of the Slovenian Film Centre Act, we can add up to a maximum of 2 feature films and a few short documentarys each year, i.e. about 5 hours of the premiere program. So it is clear that in Slovenia public money is enough for a few more than 24 hours program of independent producers. Where to get the extra money, it's not quite clear. The proposal says that the novel should not have a financial impact on the budget, which is, of course, far from the truth. In its response to the proposed amendment, RTV Slovenia emphasises that an additional EUR 20 million would be needed to achieve the quotas provided for in the novel. This is the sum equivalent to the annual annual annual programming cost of RTV Slovenia. This, for national television, Radiotelevision, means an impossible dilemma during salary cuts, read the dismissal of employees or the increase in RTV contributions. It is clear that in the current economic situation, it is impossible to increase RTV's contribution to this end. It is also not possible to expect an increase in the income of RTV Slovenia from selling the advertising space for a short period of time. So it's a dead end. The key point of the SMC Group is that the interest of Slovenian creators and performers, such as musicians, film artists and so on, is also important, and it is equally important to ensure the real possibilities of implementing legal provisions relating to distributors or media, in the case of musicians or filmmakers, in particular radio or TV programmes. We believe that both creators and producers as well as quality media landscape are important, that we are not even talking about editorial freedom and autonomy. We are of the opinion that if a State introduces a restrictive measure to the economy and increases the quotas for the compulsory share of Slovenian production, then an incentive measure must also be offered. The government has promised that there will be no additional burden on the economy. It would also be necessary to consider limiting measures in order, for example, to change the financing of the media in such a way as to support media content that is developing well-supported by Slovenian music and audiovisual production. However, the current law, based on politically balanced media financing, does not allow this. However, it allows, for example, a certain medium, the majority owner of which is one of the parliamentary parties, to receive money from the media tender. In the opinion of the SMC Group, both quality Slovenian production and editorial policy should be rewarded or financially stimulated, which takes account of this type of production and is included in the series. Just setting quotas without incentives is undoubtedly a lack of preconceived action with unforeseeable consequences, but it is also too much of an intervention in the freedom of professional judgement of each editor. If we draw the line, we can say that the proposed novel would bring about changes only in one area of the Media Law, but not systematically, without a real or comprehensive view of the actual situation. Its adoption would have many harmful financial and legal consequences. That's why we're not going to support the News of the Media Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u127	Thank you. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mrs Nada Brinovšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u128	Madam President, thank you for your word. Nice hello to you all! The resolution on the national programme for culture 2014-2017 and all the resolutions previously between the objectives and measures state that it is in the public interest to disseminate Slovenian music art into European space. To achieve this, we must first unrelentingly spread Slovenian music art in the Slovenian space. It is therefore necessary to implement the measure, greater accessibility and visibility of quality Slovenian music in our country. In doing so, we must be aware of our roots and be aware of the importance of preserving the identity of the nation. Because of the strong influence of modern global culture, the latter is particularly important for the existence of small nations. Music is fundamental to Slovenian culture and Slovenian culture is one of the foundations of Slovenian national and state existence, identity and future, as the Slovenian nation was also formed by means of music creativity. For Slovenian space, quality media is one of the basic cultural content carriers, not only of cultural content, but also of the creators. Thus, the media are the most powerful factor in which the state can exercise public interest. With regard to culture, the media must develop national awareness, cultural identity, and take care of the development of Slovenian culture and language. In the absence of domestic creativity, the media become a promoter of foreign cultural identities and enable the weakening of Slovenian national identity. Your Honor! The current legislation defines parts of Slovenian music in radio and television programmes in 20% of all daily performances of the music of each radio and television programme. However, research and various professional comments show that the so-called legal music quotas are being broadcast 90% in the night programme. You have before you the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Media Act, which, by amending Article 86, allows for a greater percentage of the time allocated to the music of Slovenian origin. This will allow for greater representation of Slovenian music creators. The change would raise Slovenia's share of music to 40%. The amendment also prevents the abuse of the quotas provided for, as it introduces a quota at two intervals instead of a daily one. For cultural development or if you want cultural prosperity, it is important that we live and educate in a cultural environment that gives a sense of national consciousness, so it is important how we promote and respect Slovenian music and thus music creators. It is clear that foreign music and music creators occupy most of the spaces in radio and television media. There's nothing better about commercial music. We can say that in our own country we humiliate our culture, Slovenian music. As an example, in Austria, legislation does not determine the share of domestic music and production in radio and television programmes owned by the state or private sector, but Austrian music creators do hear from their radio stations. On theirs, for example, because we are in the wintertime, there are no radio stations on their ski slopes to play foreign music, but only Austrian music is heard. It is quite different on the Slovenian ski resort, for example Kranjska Gori, where the music of foreign folk or pop artists from the Serbian and Anglo-Saxon language fields is played in the vast majority. How will we spread Slovenian culture and Slovenian music to European space if we cannot play Slovenian music on radio and television programmes without a legal basis? How will we maintain the Slovenian identity, the culture of the nation, if we allow the foreign music scene to flood Slovenian cultural space? That is why we need to appreciate and develop our music art and support Slovenian music creators. One of the steps is the adoption of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Media Law, which is why we will also support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u129	Thank you. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u130	Dear Vice-President, distinguished Minister with co-workers, honourable Members and Members of Parliament have a very nice greeting to all! Allow me to present to you the position of the Desus Group on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Media Act. The substance of the proposed amendment to the Media Law is the amendment to the current 86th article, which significantly increases the share of broadcasting time available for music of Slovenian origin. The law now in force stipulates that at least 20% of all daily music of each radio and television programme must be Slovenian music or music production of Slovenian creators. In the opinion of the applicants, this percentage should be that much more than once, and they also propose to increase the shares currently in force when it comes to each individual programme of Radio Television of Slovenia and the share of all broadcasts of radio and television programmes of particular importance. The proposed changes are intended to contribute to the protection of Slovenian language and Slovenian music audiovisual creativity and to the strengthening of national identity. In the Desus Group, we agree with the applicants that the media are important for the development of society and that they also ensure the dissemination of the Slovenian word and help to cultivate patriotism and a positive attitude towards their own country and language. We also attach to the proponents that Slovenian music creativity should be promoted. We therefore agree that a redesign of the area of ensuring the prescribed shares of Slovenian music in radio and television programmes should also be considered. However, we point out that the media area is very complex and that is why it is necessary to take a comprehensive approach to making changes in this area. That is why the Resolution on the National Programme for Culture, which was adopted in November 2013 and is a strategic document of the development planning of cultural policy, provides for a comprehensive revision of media legislation based on a pre-prepared media strategy, to which we have committed ourselves in the coalition treaty. The proposed amendment addresses this area in a non-systematic manner and raises a number of issues, such as the issue of the regulation of effective control and the decision of appropriate sanctions for offenders. Exceptions to the achievement of the quotas should also be provided for. In the Desus Group, we are committed to systematically amending the Media Act, on the basis of preliminary analysis of the situation, and to examining in advance the effects of the introduction of higher shares. Since we believe that the proposed law does not meet these criteria, we will vote against the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. At the same time, we expect the Government to prepare, as soon as possible, a comprehensive amendment to media legislation that will be prepared on the basis of analyses of the state of Slovenian music and audiovisual production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u131	Thank you. Mr Matjaž Han will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Minister, colleague and colleague! The provision of conditions of creativity in the music and audiovisual field in the Republic of Slovenia is part of the strategic direction of this country. Among other things, the objective is also set out in the Resolution on the National Programme for Culture 2004-2017. However, in the last few years of concrete legislative proposals in this area, unfortunately, the National Assembly has not addressed them. We have witnessed only some attempts at partial interventions aimed at the sole purpose and in particular at one collective organisation. It's strange to know that the only person who enjoys support between the musical repertoire's bearing columns is us. For Social Democrats, Slovenian music and audiovisual works are values to which we have a respectful attitude. The performance of Slovenian music and audiovisual works in the media, we believe, cannot be confused with the classic market law of supply and demand. They play an important cultural role, not because of language, but because of their influence on the formation or strengthening of national consciousness. During the period of linguistic and general cultural intrusion of the English-American production, the issue of the consequences of this should be demonstrated by a significantly greater degree of sensitivity. With our lack of interest, if you want, we are not only preventing the creative development of Slovenian production, but we are violating the possibilities for the implementation of Slovenian language and Slovenian culture in general. Advocates of freedom of choice at similar owners of radio and television stations say in their defense that they are broadcasting what people like to hear or watch. And of course, they shut up, the same owners, that they're the ones who choose instead of us. While explaining that Slovenian musicians' performances are generally well visited, Slovenian films in cinemas are well seen to be more sold than foreign performers. If something is spinning at the most impossible hours of the day, and the national media is exempt from it and therefore covers only a handful of people, we cannot say that no one is watching it or that no one is listening to it. The debate on Slovenian production quotas in Slovenian media is not new, respected. Since the country recognises the importance of domestic creation, in the Media Act, it has already imposed on radio and television stations the requirement of a certain extent of playing Slovenian works at the time of the first reception in 2001. The quota was then raised slightly, but the expected positive effects were not met. Radio stations have taken advantage of the drill system and are now filling the required volume on the part of the day when radios are only listened to by random night entertainers or by rare wakers who turn their buttons to reduce night boredom. In the Group of Social Democrats, we therefore believe that part of the anomalies could be eliminated by clearly defining the time intervals at which the required scope should be broadcast. In our party, in the Group of Social Democrats, we expect the Government to listen to the problems of the creators of music and audiovisual works and to add its contribution to the creation of appropriate conditions for the development of Slovenian production. Finally, it is also bound by a number of petitions, which have been formulated by musicians in particular, which clearly indicate not only problems but also suggest solutions. We expect the Government to cover in further steps examples of past non-productive accounting attempts by one of the collective organisations. As a starting point, let us take the ambition to provide conditions for the development of the creative potential of this nation, which will enable all of us and the authors to live their lives from their work. This is what they deserve in terms of scale, quality and diversity. In the Group of Social Democrats, we support every well-meaning debate on the situation of Slovenian musicians and audiovisual artists. The fact is, in the last 20 years, there have been problems that the Government and the National Assembly do not have and do not give the right answers to. We are aware that the Slovenian Democratic Party's proposal does not cover a broader issue, and in this respect it is weak but respected, solutions need to be sought. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u133	Thank you. The position of the Joint Left Group will be presented by Mrs Violeta Tomoc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u134	Thank you for your word. The complex issue of the quality of content and the promotion of audiovisual creativity tries to solve the proposal for amendments to the Law on Media Amendments and Supplements by increasing quotas for Slovenian audiovisual works. Greater quotas are expected to mean greater quality and genre diversity. However, the most likely effect of these changes, which are hand-shocked and unreasonable, would have a significant impact on changing programming schemes, will be more repetitions of the same musical performances aimed at the widest range of listeners, as stated in the justification for legislative changes. Above all, the tops of music elites in SAZAS will cut off even the larger portion of the cake. The first question we have to ask ourselves is what Slovenian music is. How many relative knees down and how many miles across the border can we go to get a stamp of Slovenian music? Instead, we need to talk about quality music that stimulates cultural creativity, touches people's feelings, and people take it as their own. Then we have to ask ourselves how to encourage the production of such artistic music in Slovenia. Every musician is first a listener, then a creator. Music thus becomes Slovenian through the process of processing, consumption and reproduction. The performer can have a certificate from Slovenia, but his music can be completely empty and in the best case it is a sound stage, and in the worst case it is a sound disorder. The development of quality Slovenian music of different types cannot be legalized by a quota system, although quotas can be a mechanism that helps to do so. The principle that problems should be addressed at production level should be respected. It would be useful to consider publicly funded infrastructure that would be available to less commercial types, spaces and equipment for exercises, recording and concerts. To represent lecturers as fighters for the preservation of national identity, the well-being of Slovenian authors, the quality of programming content and the creators of new jobs, is cheap flooding. Especially if we think about the state of culture and public broadcasting at the time of both of Janša's governments. It has to be made clear that it's a play and it's a tantime. It's about money leaking into the pockets of a tight circle of people at the top of SAZAS. It's not about the music. It's about the sound of the tinkle of the hammers. Behind the quotas lies the interest of the narrow elite, which draws on high author's rents while blocking the development of diverse smaller artists or music organisers. And what is it that we should encourage at the same time? As we see that good intentions can also be played, it would be even more important to consider what the consequences of the proposal could be. Without incentives for younger creators, only by raising the quota for playing Slovenian music will we achieve the goal only in part. Since there will be not enough music for the younger generation, radio stations will spin what they have, the music of older generations, i.e. generations of creators between 40 and 50 years old, which, by the way, is no longer creating to this extent, but created in times of creation that were more favourable. This would give the wrong impression that the younger generation is not creative, which is certainly not true. We therefore need measures that will at the same time promote the creativity of the younger generation. The answer is the specific funds of collective organisations to promote creativity. In such a special fund, collective organisations that collect and provide compensation collected from users purposely devote part of their revenue to promoting national creativity and local culture. This kind of fund abroad is not an exception, it's a rule. There are between 5% and 15% of the income of the collective organisation. In short, it is necessary to create an environment that will allow quality and promote the creativity of music creators. Two key aspects are the regulation of chastity in the field of culture and the reform of copyright. However, in order to find a way into the media, it is necessary to ensure the democratisation of these, the instant music that prevails at radio stations, as a result of the market functioning of these media, which banalise their contents in order to obtain as much market share as possible. Unfortunately, the media are also forced to compete with them. In addition, it would be difficult to provide personnel that would record works under the age of five, especially small private radio and television stations would have considerable problems with this. Newer domestic music is too small, the number of new songs by domestic creators and the number of domestic creators is not growing, but falling. In today's situation, the proposed quotas and prioritisation of music created over the last five years would create the conditions for the spread of domestic stalemate and the instant music produced in media magnates studios and even more for the flow of money into the pockets of hammer hunters. However, it would be useful to create from these funds a fund for new young and independent production of audiovisual works. Instead, it might be sufficient that the music of domestic production in the already existing quotas is spinning during the daytime and not just at night. These quotas could also be increased gradually, where appropriate and in proportion to quality. In the United Left, we are aware that the current legislation does not adequately address the media field. Amendments to media legislation are necessary, but we will not support the proposed amendment, as it is poorly prepared and insufficiently tackles domestic and foreign music. In the United Left we advocate a system-wide regulation of the media landscape and a revision of the media law. Above all, we believe that we need measures that, at the same time as the change in media law and copyright regulations, will stimulate Slovenian creativity and production, which we urgently need to have more domestic music broadcast by radio stations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u135	Thank you. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be presented by Mrs Ljudmila Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u136	Madam Minister, Madam Vice-President, colleague and colleague! Media Bill promotes the protection of Slovenian language, Slovenian music and audiovisual creativity and the strengthening of national identity. On the side of Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats we are aware of the importance of planned education to strengthen patriotism and preserve Slovenian language and culture. We have written into our programme that public radio and television, as well as commercial stations which have a concession for the award of programmes in the territory of Slovenia, must comply with the regulations on the extent of the broadcast of the original Slovenian programme. We also want the Slovenian film to be a recording of the national life for a time, and in particular to be a quality bearer of positive and credible documentary or artistic messages. We also support the production of quality foreign shows and those films that will enrich people, encourage them to be human and noble and will not impose violence, hatred and promiscuity on them as a regular way of life and regulating human relations. Shows on Slovenian history, art history, ethnology, music and cultural heritage help to increase national self-esteem, awareness of national roots and promote patriotism. Solutions in the proposed novel go in the right direction, first the required share of Slovenian music at Slovenian radio stations is higher to 40% and for public television programmes even more. With this solution, Slovenian musicians and other creators will have more opportunities to present themselves, and in addition to all other positive impacts more jobs will be available in the music and film industry. It is also a good solution that the law, divided into two observed intervals, from 6 to 22 p.m. and from 22 to 6 p.m., prevents the possibility of abuse that occurs, since some radio stations render almost all the required quota of Slovenian music at night or in the least listening radio terms. We also agree with the proposed solution to allow the audiovisual content of Slovenian independent producers a sufficient share of the broadcast on the first and second RTV programmes Slovenia. With the increase in the quota required for a fairly large change, it is appropriate that the law allows for a two-year transitional period in which all radio stations can adequately adapt to new standards. We will support the proposed amendment by the Christian Democrats. We believe that this is good for maintaining and developing quality Slovenian programmes and content and for supporting Slovenian creators. We Slovenians need more confidence and confidence in local knowledge and talents and more healthy pride in the country and also on domestic culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u137	Thank you. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Mr Peter Wilfan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u138	Dear Vice President, Minister, colleague and colleague! Let me first say, and to this end, in our Group of Members, we also point out that electronic media is largely shaping life patterns, values, ways of thinking and behaviour of all of us. It is therefore right, in our view, that we have media regulation that prescribes or should prescribe a reasonable way of fixing quotas for European, domestic and independent audiovisual production in the fight against the global trend of the English-American, Spanish-speaking and other productions that aggressively preserve and take over the television market. Such a small cultural market can defend both European and domestic creativity only with quotas. We agree with the applicants that the quotas for audiovisual content currently defined in the applicable law have never actually reached those prescribed ceilings. The trend in recent years is that there are fewer. This applies both to the national television house and to all other commercial houses. One of the reasons, in our view, is mainly in the control of the achievement of quotas, which is lacking. Surveillance should therefore be regulated transparently and as easily as possible. The next reason is in criminal policy in this area. However, the main reason is that the existing law vaguely defines what audiovisual work is, which causes a number of problems in measuring quotas. The same applies to quotas for Slovenian music production. The purpose of musical quotas is the primary protection and promotion of Slovenian cultural identity and language, for which both commercial radio and television stations and RTV Slovenia are bound. Slovenian music or music production is important for maintaining cultural and linguistic identity. In this respect, in our view, the quota is clearly justified and does not constitute an excessive or disproportionate interference with the right to private property of issuers. As you know, for many years there has been a polarisation of two conflicting views – whether we need to standardise and regulate the integration of quotas into the law or are so mature that we do not need such standardisation, since the last thing is editorial autonomy, which includes quality domestic production in the programmes. Although we would like such a social climate that quotas were not needed at all, statistics showed that quotas were often used, as Slovenian music was played mainly during the night. Nevertheless, the SDS proposal points out that one is the interest of musicians and the other is the interest and actual business of the media, in this case in particular radio networks. And for culture, both creators and producers and ultimately quality media landscape are important. For us, it is particularly important to protect our daily playing time. With this, Slovenian musicians would be given the opportunity to hear them more than ever. The purpose of the changes should be to ensure that Slovenian music as an attribute of Slovenian cultural identity is broadcast within the daily deadline. It is also worth considering how to achieve or prescribe a quota for listeners to get to know new performers who do not even know they exist. The problem presented in the SDS proposal is that it relies on the solutions introduced by France, where there is an extremely strong demand for French music. Specific analyses should therefore be carried out before the quotas are re-established, since, as already mentioned, we need to be aware of the characteristics of the media space, the volume of production and the habits of listeners. Or, as media experts point out, such proposals cannot only be attracted per day, because we would think it would be good if 40 or 60 % of Slovenian music were available at radio stations. Of course, we agree that as many Slovenian culture and music as possible are on radio stations, and on the other hand there are real data. It is impossible to expect top production to the extent that someone might want it. In this regard, it is worth noting the problems of Radio S, which played exclusively Slovenian music because it is dealing with loss, now translates slightly more than 30% of Slovenian music. The editor of the radio said of one of the media: "If the products were good, I would also have more than 40% of Slovenian music, but currently, unfortunately, there is not that much quality music." The editor of Radio S, according to our assessment, best sums up the dilemma to which the SDS proposal does not offer an answer. If we increase quotas in this way, we must also repeat some incentive measure. This is in hand – we need to change the funding of the media in such a way that we can support those media that support good Slovenian music and audiovisual production. The Slovenian music scene and the system of the music industry are underdeveloped and should therefore be stimulated, conceptual cycles, festivals, international cooperation, music publishing, sound publishing and others should be promoted. In addition to classical music, which is already well covered, modern music practices, electronic music, contemporary classical music, urban music, rock, jazz, ethnology and other must be covered. Therefore, to some extent it is possible to agree with the Ministry's arguments that the proposed solutions were prepared without a preliminary analysis of the situation and effects of the introduction and are incomplete, since they do not address all relevant issues within each area. It is also important to ask who is responsible for the very partial proposal made by the SDS of the Media Law, which will obviously only be made in today's debate, as the novel's path will appear to be inserted in the first phase of the legislative process. All parliamentary parties, mainly in electoral programmes and later in coalition treaties, are committed to ensuring media plurality, protecting media freedom and independence, promoting quality and respecting ethical principles in media reporting. But their conduct often shows that it is mostly just about promises. And it is in this respect that we should point out the conduct of the SDS, which, according to our assessment, bears the greatest responsibility that we still have the Media Act of 2001. It is precisely SDS that is most responsible that in 2011 a completely new media law prepared by the Pahor government, the media law of 2011 concerned EU requirements relating mainly to the new regulation of audiovisual media services in Europe, the regulation of the right to correction and response, the area of advertising, including the achievement of Slovenian and European production quotas, the granting of state aid, the prevention of abuse of dominant positions, the protection of competition in the media and the requirements for transparency of the operation of publishers or media service providers. With regard to quotas, the draft law, while maintaining the amount of the relative share of Slovenian music to 20% of all daily music, should be played daily, with the majority of the Slovenian music quota being played during the day. It also provided for the obligation to achieve a share of its own production of 20% of the monthly broadcasting time of radio or television programmes. In this regard, it is also worth noting EU Directive 2010/13, which also seeks to protect the European audiovisual sector and to enable the development of the market for the production and distribution of audiovisual works. We therefore assess that the proposal for amendments to the law has been tabled by an uncreditable proposer, since voting against the law in 2011 was an advocacy for the status quo or for non-adjustment. The following shows the conduct of the second Janša government, at which time super Minister Žiga Turk, who was also responsible for the media as Minister of Culture, set up and tasked the Secretary of State for this area with the main protagonist of the destruction of the Media Act, former SDS Member Alexander Zorn, which meant that changes in the media area of the profession, journalists, editors, local media and others who are dissatisfied with the current regulation would not be possible with the correction, with media subsidies, with limited autonomy, with quotas, with opaque and speculative purchases of media, with the exhaustion of media houses and could still be mentioned. However, in 2011, the Media Law was not given an opportunity because some members of the coalition had also renounced their support for the law, despite the fact that the government had passed the law and that the coalition had agreed with it. Regardless of the reasons why these Members rejected the proposal with the SDS, this still means that today those who do not want to change and put their partial interest ahead of the public interest. Among the coalition members who rejected the bill was today's Minister of Culture Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, then Member of the Social Democrats. That is why we expect the Minister of Culture to act in a second role for the benefit of a healthy media landscape and to continue to work where the Pahor's government and then the former Minister of Culture Dr. Uroš Grilc, who returned to this political, if I am a bit of a cartoonist, hard walnut, have also ended. The solutions designed are a good basis for further work, so we remind the Minister that it is not necessary to start from the beginning. The latest or any subsequent advertising is just water to the mills of those who do not want to change. On the basis of the above arguments, such a form of law before us is not acceptable to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u139	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. First, we give the floor to the representative of the proposed bill, Mag. Mark Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u140	Madam President, thank you for the floor. We have heard the views of various parliamentary groups. On the one hand, I think that we can come up with one single opinion or a unified view here, namely, I have got the feeling that the vast majority of you here agree that there are needed changes and additions to the Media Law. Given that this is today’s first reading, I am convinced that many things can also be completed or improved in the second and third readings. I am sure that most of the laws adopted in Slovenia should be adopted, I would say, with some consensus, and today there is an opportunity in here for us to let this law go through the legislative process by giving it support and that various parliamentary groups are trying to improve it with various amendments or proposals. For in view of the work of the current coalition, I do not believe, despite the fact that, above all, coalition parties have expressed the view that the Media Act needs to be amended so that the National Assembly under this coalition is likely to experience this amendment of this law. I think that today is an ideal opportunity, in the first reading, this law is supported and then, I would say, upgraded in this sense, of course, to be better than the present one. I also appreciate that, as proposers, we would like to say that we have identified the essential issue that relates mainly to this abuse of quotas, because we find this matter unacceptable in the Slovenian Democratic Party and, above all, that the solution proposed by us can significantly reduce these abuses. Before continuing this debate, however, I would just like to read you all a joint statement, namely, the Slovenian Union of Music Creators. "The most successful and fertile Slovenian music and audiovisual authors signed 13 petitions two years ago, which systematically regulate the music market and the national music culture strategy, we have verified this vision with over 2,000 signatures. One of the petitions was also addressed by the legislative branch of the authorities to close down at least 51% of the Slovenian music quota in the Slovenian radio media. This trend of Slovenian creators, who see in such regulation the boom of the economic industry, the strengthening of national identity, new jobs, goes to the novel SDS, which the creators support and welcome. The sad fact of the past years is that among the most played music on Slovenian radio stations almost no longer is Slovenian. In the field of audiovisual production, the situation is equally alarming. The screens of Slovenian viewers are filled with foreign works, and domestic creativity is sadly caught in the creation, especially of licensed knowledge. It is certainly not proud of the Republic of Slovenia to prescribe legally and almost repressively the minimum amount of domestic language, song, culture in its own sovereign country. But unfortunately, the harsh reality of corruption's capital interests in return for the negligible sums of unfair earners, has almost sold out its own cultural and, above all, audiovisual and music contexts. In a country without a strategic plan to preserve its own culture, such legislation is in fact the only way to preserve its own culture, its own songs and its own words. Audiovisual and music creators, who are united into the Slovenian Union of Music Artists; the Economic Interest Association of Slovenian Independent Audio and Video Producers; the music, audiovisual and literary creators of Slovenia; the Music Forum; the Association of Authors, Producers and Performers of Slovenia represent over 80% of the known and used music and audiovisual repertoire; we therefore believe that our voice counts and we are confident that all Slovenian political parties will support this novel and thus open the door wide to raising cultural identity and new jobs in the Republic of Slovenia."
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u141	Thank you. Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič has the floor to prepare Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u142	Say good-bye again! The main objective of the proposal is to protect Slovenian language and Slovenian music and audiovisual creativity and to strengthen national identity. I strongly agree with this, but the proposal for a law aims to amend Article 86, which allows only a larger proportion of the broadcast time available for the music of Slovenian origin. I further note that the proposal for a law does not comply with the Resolution on the National Programme for Culture 2014-2017 adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 27. 11. 2013 and foresees a comprehensive revision of media legislation on the basis of a transitionally prepared media strategy. The proposal for a bill only brings individual partial solutions, as only provisions on the prescribed proportion of Slovenian music and Slovenian audiovisual works change. This part refers to RTV Slovenia and introduces registers of independent producers. The revision of media legislation requires the preparation and adoption of a national strategic document which will provide guidance for the development of the media landscape in the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of an analysis of the existing situation. This is also confirmed by all failed attempts to adopt new media legislation, as the current legislative proposals have also failed due to the lack of a national strategy in this area, which would clearly define public interest in the field of media, in particular lack of solutions that would allow for faster and more effective control by the Agency for Communications Networks and Services of the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Slovenia for Culture and Media and establish appropriate sanctions for offenders. The proposed solutions also do not provide for some necessary and understandable exceptions to the achievement of the prescribed programming shares. The proposal for a bill is also not based on any analysis of the state of Slovenian music and audiovisual productions. The bill also does not contain an analysis of the effects of the increased regulatory share of Slovenian music. Last night's reports on Radio Slovenia 1 at 7 p.m. said: "The RTV Slovenia Programme Council claims that the implementation of Article 86 is impossible. We would need at least an additional 20 million euros." I also have on the table the response of Radiotelevision of Slovenia to the proposal for amendments to the Media Act, which clearly analyses all possible negative effects when adopting such a proposal, namely the financial consequences, as I have already mentioned, then Article 68 introduces certain changes in two laws and in one regulation and 86. The article, as has already been said, is contrary to the Radio Television Act of Slovenia. And at the end of Amendment 87. Articles. In order to increase the contribution in order to comply with the legal obligations, an RTV contribution should be increased as a matter of urgency. This explains and analyses the situation of the Director of RTV Slovenia, Director-General Mag. Marko Philly. In the Coalition Treaty, the provision for the revision of media legislation is consistent with the views of the National Programme for Culture, in accordance with the analysis of the Review of the media landscape of Slovenia, in accordance with the development of professions and information technology. Public interest in information needs to be defined and systematically supported. The amendment of media legislation should create an environment of transparent ownership and autonomy for journalists and editors. In view of the above, I will not support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Media.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u143	Thank you. Mr Jože Horvat has the floor to prepare Mrs Anita Kolesh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u144	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, dear colleague and colleague! I say that Slovenian music is never too much and Slovenian music is never enough. It's part of our culture. We have great composers, great performers, great singing choirs. Anton Trstenjak said, "Two Slovenes are the same singing choir" and then continued even, "The four-letter singing means two Slovenians." So this singing choir. We're capable of all of this. I think today's debate is also about our own identity, about our culture. Only the upright personality and cultural attitudes make us recognizable and equal partners in the assembly of European nations, where each has its own irreplaceable role, because there are no more differences between Romans and Greeks and Jews because of the number of economic power and the richer historical history of individual nations and makes them more important and valuable. At the previous point, I have warned that if we do not take care of our own identity, our own culture, our own music, then our Slovenian culture can quickly become in the great cultural European pot and we simply will not be. As far as media music is concerned, let's take a look at our southern neighbors. I don't normally want to follow any neighbors, but because I believe that we have Slovenians, citizens of this country, that we have so many potentials that we don't have to follow any country, no nation that we can be the best ourselves. However, if you turn the button — or as colleague Han said — on the radio receiver, catch some Croatian station because you know what I mean. [[…]] When I talk about composers of global importance, because I will not list them, because I don't even know them and it would take too long, of course, there is always before Jacobus Gallus Carniulus, born in July 1550, I think that, somewhere around the Ribnica, if I continue, I could actually start with an alphabet, then Aussenik, some completely different kind of music, world-renowned and so on and so on. Of course, at least some of these last music are mocking, but the world's public is accepting it. And I conclude with an interesting thought that goes like this. On the ever-present question of identity, i.e. to the question of identity, I would like to translate into an answer for today's situation the adjusted thought, expressed by the then priest Pius Jankar at the ceremony of the Channel Valley, said: "You are Slovenian, but you cannot be. You don't like being Italian, so you have to be." And that would have been something like this, this fashioned thought of him: Dear cousins, you're Slovenians, and you don't want to be. They want to be European cream, so you can't be. You don't like being Balkan, but you have to be because you're ashamed of yourself or because we're ashamed that we were once waiting for Cankar's mother at the school door. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u145	Thank you. Ms Anita Koleša has the floor to prepare Mr Franc Jurša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u146	Madam Vice-President, distinguished Minister, welcome to colleagues and colleagues as well! In studying the amendments to the Media Act, which the drafter gives to the members of the National Assembly, there are many inconsistent solutions that ask us more questions than answers. This fact certainly is not in favour of the adoption of this amendment. Already in the position of the SMC Group, a number of issues have been raised in this proposal. I would like to highlight in particular the issue of increased production and the impact on the quality of programmes, especially in the content of our national radio and television house, of course in the light of such a very large increase in the quota for playing Slovenian music. Indeed, Radiotelevision Slovenia has informed us in its response to this proposal that there is no link between quota music and increased production, as no one has proved it and the applicant has not given us any analysis in this regard. Indeed, since the introduction of quotas into our musical offer of radio stations, for example, have we become significantly larger promoters of Slovenian music, strengthened Slovenian national identity, strengthened our language? Actually, we don't know. The claims of our central media house, in which we are informed of the harmful consequences of the planned changes, are also very significant. It is perfectly logical that the increase in quotas in such a small creative market is a problem for Slovenian music production, unless of course we want to make its offer poor in terms of quality. If I focus on the radio, I am mainly a listener of the national radio and I think, at least this is my opinion that they are trying to follow a good Slovenian music scene with novelties, diversity, a varied selection of Slovenian music creators and performers, so I cannot completely circumvent their warning. It seems to me that we behave quite pismeuharically until our RTV institution, if you do, as we say. They may be exaggerating when they say that the implementation of the proposed changes in the media landscape will be reflected as some kind of devastation and will undermine the work of media creators, but we have no serious objections. However, I am particularly concerned that I think that this, let's say desolation, goes to a rave of quality music and, of course, audiovisual offers. This production is not a liquid tape to introduce a new line and to print more pieces once and then to enjoy increased production. Therefore, excuse me, their concerns about the financial consequences also, of course, require thorough reflection. Apparently, the job of a music editor has almost died out of the profession, which is understandable in terms of the ideas we have. If this is how we will deal with changes in the media law, we will slowly not need any editors anymore and we will communicate the programming content and add our musical desires, Slovenian of course. For these reasons, and for all other reasons, expressed by Dr Matić on behalf of the SMC on behalf of our Group, I will not, of course, support this proposal. However, I am very much in favour of changes in legislation, which will, however, regulate the media in a much more meaningful way. I therefore welcome the intention of the Ministry of Culture to give a thorough attention to this issue already in 2015. I hope that you will study any other letter in preparation, not just what we have heard or seen today. Believe me, there are a lot of them and they reflect both purely partial interests and very many good ideas. I wish you good luck in that, and we promise to cooperate.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u147	Thank you. Mr Franz Jurša has the floor to prepare Mr Matjaž German.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Vice President. Once again, welcome to all colleagues and the Minister of Culture! The media are one of the foundations of any democratically regulated society that ensures the dissemination of information as an important condition for the development of society. In the absence of domestic creativity, the media seizes those who are not here at home, but come from elsewhere. The law stipulates in Article 86 that at least 20% of all Slovenian music should be played daily. Of course, we also have some other provisions that say how it is on Radiotelevision and how it is public in the media. Well, I would also like to point out and mention that the Audiovisual Media Services Act 2011 prescribes how much of this share must be committed to the European audiovisual part, says 50%. Why, at this point, would he in some way support the initiation of procedures for amending legislation? Mainly because I judge myself, as well as the profession, that these prescribed music takes place somewhere 90% at night. In a way, of course, our own music and our own domestic performers should also be legally supported, otherwise it is not entirely up to us whether we are going to or not. It is also very important how they are successful with their performances, what quality of music they also perform. Of course, music unions remind us that they have been in a very serious crisis, and we have been warned in the past. Why do I not now intend to support the novelties of this law? In particular, because I think that the renovation of the media broadcast requires the preparation and adoption of a national, strategic document that will provide guidance on the development of the media landscape on the basis of an analysis of the existing situation. The lack of a national strategy in this area, which will clearly define public interest in the field of media, of course we cannot change the law. The proposal for a new law is not based on any analysis of the state of Slovenian music and audiovisual production, so of course it will not receive support from me. And maybe just for a quick conclusion. Good groups have no problem with this, but I must say that each listener has a button in his hands at the remote or a button on the radio or on the television receiver. And he's the emperor anyway.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u149	Thank you. He has a word, Mr Matjaž German. Get ready, Mr. Bojan Podkoršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u150	Thank you for your word. There are two clear questions on this subject. On the one hand, we point to the strengthening of national identity and, on the other hand, to the right or freedom of the media. But where the segregated point is in this, we can assess from today's debate. The most frequently mentioned case of national music is the case of France, as already mentioned today, where quotas are 40%, for some forms of radio also 60%. According to the French Music Union, these quotas do not achieve the desired results. I am mentioning this country in particular because it is these days that there are such debates or they are coming from this country, I will say, support for the debates on media freedom and the rights and responsibilities we bear to politicians and the media. The aim of the introduction of quotas in France, as well as in France, was to protect our own production, support for young people not yet established, and in particular support for the entire music industry. However, it is on the basis of French experience that this proposal or those initiatives will not achieve the desired objectives. Let me mention that this type of reinforcement in France, or the result of such measures, was up to 25%, I will say, French music consumption. But the limit was reached when French performers began singing in English. In some ways, I would point out that this kind of resolution of media legislation is a reflection of some partial resolution. In a way, we don't have, I'll say, enough data, we don't have an opinion from the professional public. I would like to know what would be like, say, the G.I.Z. opinion of broadcasting, radio and television media, or the Chamber of Commerce, because it kind of gives us the impression that it's kind of an account without a tavern. More than half of the radio stations are currently playing more than 40% of the music, with 500 of the most played songs showing that the number of Slovenian songs on radios is increasing. I would point out here the phenomenon of national-fun music, which, to a large extent, is on an enormous scale, but not on a quota account, but because people simply like it. This, in particular, is because the market has to do its job and each individual has to make his or her choice, given what we have a choice in our market, according to his or her conscience. At this point, I would like to point out in particular that achieving 40% or 40% of the proposed production or production could also be questionable, because we know that, if we avoid repetition, it is very difficult to play or have such an extent of the music industry, this would mean that practically the Slovenian industry would compete with the entire world industry. I myself advocate that, within the framework of the law which, as promised, will be prepared by the Ministry in 2015, certain issues on this issue be addressed. We are aware that this is also about strengthening national identity. As the Minister has already said, there will be a time for a more serious debate and a thorough solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u151	Thank you. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Branislav Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u152	Dear Vice President, Minister, colleague and colleague! We are talking about this bill on an important part of culture, especially Slovenian culture. Of course, we have heard many words about patriotism throughout the day, and I feel that there is also a part of patriotism involved here. Of course, when I've been listening to the debate all day, sometimes I feel like this is part of a coalition hall, and here's the opposition. It has been reported many times today that every law, bill on this table, that it is pointless, that it is unnecessary and that it is inquality and that something more important should be discussed in this Chamber. But I am of the opinion that every proposal for a law is important and that it is worth discussing in this Chamber. Since you run this coalition, there is every possibility that laws will come to these tables and that we will talk about them, of course, but they need to be prepared. When we talk about the Media Act, as I said at the beginning, it is an important part of culture, we are talking about Slovenian music. Surely Slovenia has many musicians, music creators, in the past, the present, and I am not afraid for the future, many of the quality creators who know much about the world. Many times, however, we Slovenians and Slovenians are the ones who might have avoided this Slovenian music a little bit, and even today we have heard that this Slovenian music is mostly performed during the nighttime. This part of the bill is one that is still going to improve a little in the future, of course also with your help to make it even better. That is why I think it is important to support it today, because I believe that Slovenian music is an important value and an important part of Slovenian culture, but Slovenian culture is an extremely solid foundation of our Slovenian country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u153	Thank you. The word has magic. Branislav Rajić, get Mrs. Iva Dimic ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u154	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues! I wonder what the purpose of the presentation of views is, for example, on the proposal for a law when the initiators are not interested. Today, at 12.45 p.m. in this Chamber, only one member of the type of proposer was present during the presentation of the positions of the groups. They threw us a bone to eat, and they went to lunch on their own. It's a new piece of media law that shows better. It's not dinner yet. The proposal for a bill contains only 6 articles and the areas are not entirely regulated. I will only indicate the starting points that the pre-pronouns did not point out. The proposal for amendments to the Media Act does not answer the following key questions. How will young Slovenian authors be provided with their works and how to prevent the five-year barking of outstanding hits, whose authors intend to get revenge on the payments that this law puts in their pockets? What will ensure minimum quality standards for audiovisual works, without slipping into cheap production, which is inevitable when leading to hyperproduction at a time when there is a lack of resources for creators? The proposaler misleads us by arguing that there will be no increase in the state budget and then proposes the establishment of a register of independent producers with a full consumer apparatus. Recognized Slovenian authors, although unapplied and young authors gain nothing by doing so. Compared to the Croatian regime, which is identical to the current Slovenian regime, it is therefore not appropriate as a justification, an unknown deception and manipulates and manipulates them. It also refers to a French regime that is considered an exception within the European Union and with 40 million inhabitants. Well, this one's not comparatively similar either. Do we really have to deny our people by law for the music of Édith Piaf, Charles Aznavour, and if you want Debussy and Bizet, just because they don't listen to Slovenian authors in France? Is there a proven link between quota music and increased production? It's not. This means only the drying up of a musical offer, not its diversity. Is the solution of small media production in forced media programming? It's not. Will the proposed measures not lead to frequent repetitions, the monotonousity of programming shows and a significant decline in obedience and ratings? If we can be deaf to the response of Radiotelevision Slovenia on the proposal of this law, this proposal is totally rejected. Finally, we can ask ourselves what actual acquisition represents an increase in the quotas for Slovenian audiovisual works in the media for citizens and citizens. The media space is always busy, unfortunately, a busy part of this space is occupied by advertisements, which are often such as to underestimate our mind and "demobilize" our children: "If you call now......" We therefore have to balance the programming scheme between domestic and foreign authors. No one despises domestic production, but let us not forget that foreign production represents a door to a wider world and allows us to cross paths that we would not otherwise travel to places that are not accessible to us, to listen to music from all the Meridians and through films we know other cultures. Even this noble people make them more humane and national conscious. In preparing for this debate, I have listened to a newer domestic pop production. I didn't miss a happy song paraphrasing the command "Before Marriage All On Your Hands." She missed the principle of poetic aesthetics for me in the first place, but at the same time, she miscalculated with machines for the household, and worst of all, with the perfectness of love. It was just a drop over the edge so we wouldn't support the bill in this form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u155	Mrs Iva Dimic, New Slovenia, has the floor. Get Mr. Tomaž Gantar ready, Desus.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u156	Thank you for your word. Dearly-respected colleagues and colleagues! What is advocated in this law in this proposal does not mean that Slovenian musicians want to provide more money, especially to those within SAZAS. I can say that our Group of Members, in its previous reference to the Government, has proposed a new Law on ZASP, which would somehow regulate copyright more fairly, and many have opposed this law. We already wanted to arrange for Slovenian performers to be paid equally and to encourage a greater patriotic, cultural, national awareness of the Slovenian language. That wasn't it. I support the bill myself because, frankly, when I drive home, I want to hear at least two Slovenian music in a bad hour, at any radio station. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u157	Mr. Tomaž Gantar, Desus, has the floor. Get Mrs. Janja Slug ready, SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u158	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The red thread of today's debates is somehow a relation to the country, to our cultural and national identity, the spread of the Slovenian word and, of course, not least to Slovenian music. I can agree that there is probably too little done in this area and that our role in the field of national consciousness is also extremely large. But big, I think, especially in creating the conditions, that we and, of course, citizens can really be proud of this country. It is said that we create the conditions for Slovenia to be successful, economically strong, solidarity, the rule of law, patient with others and so on. That we will not be proud of this country at the end only when we identify with it when our athletes win or someone else wins such a competition, most of the time. Of course, I also agree that the area of culture is all too often neglected, which is probably happening everywhere and is even more pronounced during the crisis, and that there is also a need to amend legislation, system legislation in some preliminary analyses, broad consensus views. And it would be in some way inappropriate or even underestimating to expect that the domestic consciousness would be significantly greater if the percentage of Slovenian music being played at the stations would be higher. I don't think this is the right way or the solution for improvements in this area. I would also find it difficult to agree with the proposaler's position that this would have a significant impact, even if this percentage were to increase, on economic activity, so that the greater share of Slovenian music will make it more employable for music to be more diverse and similar. I do not know where the claim to increase production and all this resulted in a higher percentage. Since we know what Comrade Jurša has already said, if someone doesn't like something, he'll switch channels and listen to something else. So the solution is probably in the systematic work in the field of culture and also quality music, which I think finds its place in these programmes and stations today. It is said that a law based on such assumptions, and which is also in certain segments contrary to existing legislation, cannot get my support either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u159	The word is Mrs. Janja Sluga, SMC. Get Mr. Tomaž Lisec ready, SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Have a nice hello again! The proposal for a bill proposed by the SDS is not based on any analysis of the state of Slovenian music and audiovisual production. I think that this would be necessary in particular in the field of Slovenian music production, as the bill provides for twice the current regulatory share of Slovenian music on commercial programmes, half of which is supposed to be Slovenian music, under 5 years. It is not clear from the novel whether the quantity of quality Slovenian music that could possibly have fulfilled such a high prescribed proportion has been analysed. The proposal also does not contain an analysis of the effects of increasing the prescribed proportion of Slovenian music. The reasons for the amendment of the SDS proposal are largely not given, but it states that more precise definitions in the field of the definition of audiovisual works make it possible to monitor and consequently respect the prescribed shares more effectively, while the provisions on control, namely Articles 108 and 109 of the current Media Law, do not change at all. With regard to audiovisual works, the applicant therefore refers to the misuse of the requirement to record and verify compliance with the quotas laid down by the Communications Network and Services Agency of the Republic of Slovenia and notes that the lack of accurate data makes effective control impossible. This reason, of course, is not sufficient for a logical assessment, since only by raising the mandatory quota and the system of control do we change, we do not ensure any qualitative leap in ensuring compliance with the quotas. If the applicant concludes that the reporting on compliance with the statutory regulation on the shares of Slovenian independent and European audiovisual works in the present is misleading, it cannot guarantee that the requirement to raise the share will not continue to be misleading. In comparatively legal work, the applicant cites cases of countries with a much larger music market, which have a significant share of national music in the legislation. In doing so, it is important for the proposer to complement that the larger countries also have a much larger creative pool from which they can draw on quality national music, and that the increase in the minimum share of national music may pose a significant risk to the decline in the quality of music programmes and to the poverty of cultural diversity and, in the long term, even cultural isolationism. Quality creativity can only be born in a culturally diverse environment where there is a rich exchange of different types of music, music from different backgrounds and types. However, if you have already mentioned to compare arrangements in France, let me say that radio stations in France, where the quota is 40%, are complaining that they are difficult to meet, despite having nearly 50 million listeners. The only radio in Slovenia, Radio S, which plays exclusively Slovenian music, does business with loss. The proposal further wrongly states that the amendment has no financial implications for the state budget. The proposal, however, introduces a register of independent producers, which means additional burdens both for existing work obligations, i.e. keeping a register, monitoring and budget, the need for additional employment, as well as for producers themselves, with the obligation to register, payment of a possible fee and so on. It also introduces an additional administrative obstacle, i.e. a new procedure or register. The proposal is also flawed in the case of a provision on the management of the register of independent producers, since it does not specify the procedure or manner in which such register is maintained, the registration and deletion of the register, the communication of amendments and so on. It does not specify the exact conditions for entry into the register. The determination that the register is refreshed by means of associations representing independent producers is not appropriate in terms of management and decision-making in administrative proceedings. We can identify some other shortcomings, such as the lack of criteria for assessing the eligibility of the entry and so on. If I now make some progress in the text of the articles that are being proposed, I will find that in Article 1, the proposed definition, which would define the concept of audiovisual works more precisely, is not clear enough, since the interpretation of the practice so far is not clear enough. A more precise definition of what is included in the required share of Slovenian audiovisual works in the annual broadcast time of the individual issuer is proposed. The aim is to prevent the current situation when issuers include in the quota each audiovisual performance irrespective of the number of repetitions. I do not think that the amendment of the article is appropriate, as it defines audiovisual work as works that are in any way expressed as individual creations in the field of literature, science and art and have been written a synopsis and/or scenario for them. Which means that, elsewhere, audiovisual creatures other than literature, science and art are not audiovisual works. What, for example, is a documentary on a specific social issue? What are video clips? Talk shows? Television shows and stuff? An animated film is also an example, which is not sufficiently covered by this definition, but there is no scenario for it but a storyboard, which is to be taken into account when defining the concept of audiovisual work. Specifying the areas of individual creation is completely unnecessary, these works in this definition are not covered, despite the fact that they correspond to all the professional and other legal definitions of audiovisual work. Indeed, the definition of these parts also contains other existing legislation and that definition would result in conflicting provisions. For example, the Act on the Slovenian Film Centre, the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, which defines audiovisual activity in Article 4, as the activity of all production, postproduction, distribution and display of audiovisual works intended for public performance in recognised technical standards, irrespective of the bearer of image and sound and the extended audiovisual culture. Then there is the Copyright and Related Rights Act, which defines audiovisual works in Article 103, and I will not read this definition now, but it is not the definition that the proposer wants. And I could count it. However, let me say that the proposer in Article 2 of the proposal proposes one thing which I would be happy to support, and I also think is SMC, i.e. the introduction of two time intervals at which these quotas are to be met. This, I think, is a very welcome proposal, and we could, as a matter of fact, support it. In Article 3, where the criteria for the number of shares are added, I believe that this will be very difficult to monitor and that abuses in this way will be even more frequent as the criteria are tightened. In Article 4, however, I consider this to be the most questionable article of all, since the implementation of the legal requirement at the lower threshold of 600 hours of prime Slovenian audiovisual works on RTV Slovenia and at least 150 hours of prime Slovenian audiovisual works by independent producers is in complete disharmony with the budgetary capabilities and some realistic financial frameworks in which Slovenian film or audiovisual production takes place. In fact, the Ministry of Culture has been providing around €3 million per year for the realisation of film and audiovisual works for several years, which is enough to produce a maximum of 5 films, mostly full-time films, and not more than 15 audiovisual works, mostly short films. If we expect that the average minute of Slovenian feature film is about 100 minutes and that audiovisual works are mostly between 30 and 50 minutes long, we can quickly calculate that in Slovenia public money is enough for a few more than 18 hours program of independent producers. If we add up to 1.7 million euros that RTV Slovenia has to devote to cinematographic films after the obligation of the Slovenian Film Centre Act, we can add a maximum of 2 feature films and a few short documentaries each year, i.e. about 5 hours of the programme. We come together for a maximum of 23 hours. The proposal to amend the Media Act is contrary to the Resolution on the National Programme for Culture 2014-2017, adopted by the National Assembly on 27 November 2013 and foresees a comprehensive revision of media legislation on the basis of a pre-prepared media strategy. The proposal only carries some partial solutions, and for some problems it does not offer solutions at all. In particular, solutions are lacking to allow faster and more effective control by the Communications Networks and Services Agency of the Republic of Slovenia and the Cultural and Media Inspectorate and to establish appropriate sanctions for offenders. The law in force does not contain them. The current law was adopted by the National Assembly in 2006. At that time, the government of Janez Janša rejected the proposal of the Slovenian Music Union and ignored their proposal. The union then suggested that at least 30% of all daily music of each radio programme should be Slovenian music or music production of Slovenian creators and creators. For RTV Slovenia and other radio programmes of particular importance, at least 40% were proposed in the band of musicians. And this was not accepted by the then government of John Janša. It therefore follows from the proposal that it was prepared for rapid, superficial, without prior analysis of the situation and effects, it is partial, incomplete and incomplete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u161	Mr Tomaž Lisec, SDS, has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Margareta Guček Zakošek, SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u162	Thank you, President, for your word. I must say that I am delighted when I read this text of the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the response of the Radiotelevision of Slovenia to the proposal for the adoption of the Media Law, we relive the same story over and over again through discussions by members of the coalition. The real position of MPs at the level of copy-paste variant works with full power. So even sometimes I feel that I do not know whether the Public Institute of RTV Slovenia is still a separate public institution or whether some department of the Ministry of Culture. In doing so, it is most important that the Minister of Culture is against the protection of Slovenian creators. Congratulations and greetings! Slovenian musicians are probably thrilled with the opinion of the Government and the Minister on their work. Moreover, today I am listening to the views of members of the coalition, which I hope they do not know Slovenian music creators, because if you know them, then what you are saying is an insult to these Slovenian creators. So I hope you don't know them, because otherwise you're very insulting them. I feel that you are essentially pushing the creators into the SDS, but on the other hand we have FDV and RTV Slovenia and this government coalition against any changes. Moreover, I have a feeling that these Slovenian kindergartens smell especially in the field of economy, which still earn some money and allow some personnel changes, but when it comes to Slovenian symbols, Slovenian culture, Slovenian creators, you, by your way, are a little bit hung up or you are only so active here that you can make some sort of human change and maybe some euro where you can bring it to your own kindergartens. So I repeat, today, when I read the position of the Mir Cerar Party and their Members, I feel that the Mir Cerar Party has already completely taken over the SD's Public Institute of RTV Slovenia. One thing that is very important and gets involved in limiting editorial policy, and then we have commercial, I say barons, editors who serve by playing second-rate foreign production, when five times a day we hear one and the same piece on all radio stations, as if there are only twenty, thirty pieces in the world that can be rotated over a week. On the other hand, I have the confessions of Slovenian creators who have to bribe these same music editors three times a week so that they can spin their own work three times a week for a thousand euros. And here we have all these privileged Slovenian music creators who are sitting in some collective organization that they don't have to go into. That is why I think it is right that in the next step we also amend the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, where these music barons are subject to poultry. Maybe a few sentences or a response from Radiotelevision Slovenia to the proposed amendments to the Media Law. I will not read it as members of the coalition, but I will try to oppose it. RTV writes, the proposaler is unreasonablely high, and especially flat-rately increases the percentage of Slovenian music in RTV Slovenia. From 40% to 50%, they are unreasonablely high, and above all flat-rate. Then it reads: "Inevitable consequences for viewers and listeners will be: radical change in programming schemes, changes in concepts, frequent repetition, monotonous programmes, less selectivity, reduction of Slovenian music standards, decline in ratings and obedience." That I am on the side of Slovenian creators, and by no means want to be played at the RTV Slovenia Institute, because such a despicable attitude of the Public Institute of the Republic of Slovenia towards its own Slovenian creators is catastrophic. Moreover, RTV writes: "The fact is that all Slovenian music is not suitable for the national programme." What we are listening to, Mr Rajić, is not only Edith Piaf, we are listening to music in Slovenia 1, 2 and 3, but you can ask the younger or older generation who says, yes, where did they pull it from? And it's probably not a top-notch piece of music, it's just some music foreign production. Moreover, RTV dares write down "that the implementation of the proposed changes in the media landscape would lead to real devastation and would completely undermine the work of media creators." On the contrary, if any foreign media creator is probably not interested in Slovenia either, what Slovenian music creator is fighting to ask whether we even want to create so that he may have 100 pieces in 2016, but that one Slovenian new music piece will experience a valid one. RTV writes, "the cause of true desolation and completely crippled the work of media creators." Other people. Thus, the Slovenians will soon be no more if we do not adopt such laws. Come in. It's always Janša's fault. We're used to that. Sometimes I feel that only the SDS party is always sitting in Janša's government, even from the Desus party, these calls always come: "In the government of Janez Janša you have not done so..." It's like they've never been around. I'll read it. Remember, in 2010 – Janša’s government was not at the time, at least as I recall, but I was here in the National Assembly – musicians gathered at Linhart’s Hall at the initiative of the Society’s organizers of the music forum and accompanied three main demands with applause to try to improve the position of domestic music and its performers. At that time they presented a request for 50% of Slovenian music or the original music production of Slovenian creators, between 6 and 20 hours of each radio or television program. 15% of the domestic music envisaged in the draft media law has been referred to as funny and as a country's missing cultural strategy. And I believe that when the government comes with this minister with a new media law in the process, it is likely that it will award a quota of 15%. Why do I think marriage is necessary? This quota, which we have in the existing law, and 20% on RTV Slovenia, and from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. in the evening – you were really told if you could hear a Slovenian musical product in a long drive, except for those rare exceptions that were already mentioned today, what a portal with national-fun music and some other rare Slovenian music, and everything else got out of our sleep between 10:00 and 6:00 a.m. At that time, Slovenian creators experienced their 5 minutes of asleep Slovenian listening. That's why I think it's right that we hear good creators in the afternoon, including those young creators who don't have how much money to bribe music editors and say, "Look, we made a product, please turn it around, and we don't have any money." Music editors say, "Yes, look, young colleague, young colleague, young ensemble, that's not how it works. There's another hierarchy with us. If you don't pay, it's not your turn." It is also stated in the law that at least half of the share of the music played must be the music production of Slovenian creators, who is less than five years old. So that we don't listen to the obvious about how old music sucks and the new music doesn't work or work. Of course, if this goes on, not only Slovenian economists and craftsmen will go abroad, but some of the few Slovenian creators in this area will go abroad. We have a top Slovenian director who said: "What Slovenian media landscape?" Unfortunately, he went to the East, but he became recognizable, not only within Europe, but within the entire earth's surface. But with us, of course, we have to revolve around our kindergartens, and this kindergarten, called RTV Slovenia, will obviously be a great struggle to take over between the Mir Cerar Party and the Social Democrats, who will draw as much from this media kindergarten as possible. We in the SDS strongly oppose such regulation of the media and audiovisual landscape, so we also propose such laws that Slovenian creators can still see the hope of creation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u163	The word has magic. Margareta Guček Zakošek, SMC, prepare Mrs Andreja Katič, SD.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u164	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Now I'm going to get out of my concept a little bit, and I'm going to go back to where my colleague ended up, and I'm going to say again that their thinking isn't ours either. I mean this mainly in terms of what someone will set up in RTV Slovenia. I would ask you so much to avoid such hints. I'll put it that way. The fact that we won't back up another law that we could and would then improve it with the amendments, but this time it doesn't. You've changed four articles, and these four articles don't lead us to salvation. Even if we increase this quota by twice or by 100%, we do not have adequate control over how this is done, we have not solved anything. And the article that defines this cannot be opened for further consideration. This is what I would like to say for citizens and citizens who may not know that we cannot just interfere with the law in further proceedings. Again, Mr Lisec says that this proposal will help young unheard Slovenian musicians in particular. Well, I went to look for some data and I found one study by the Peace Institute on the management of copyright and related rights in the digital environment, which gives us one piece of data, namely a collective. In fact, my thinking is always going in the economic direction of 20% of our customers, giving us 80% of our sales. And you won't believe it, this study says that it's one of the collective organisations called SAZAS, 50% of its money has been distributed to 6% of the creators. Now tell me, if we raise this quota, how will others get this money? They won't. But it is a solution somewhere else, and this solution, I must say, has been abolished by the Government of Janez Janša, these are the promotional funds of collective organisations. They've been shut down. And only the promotional funds of collective organisations were meant for new, young authors to start working so that they could promote themselves. Why were they canceled? It is probably not the interest of established authors to invest in the fund, from which new authors will be created, which is not least competition for them, because you know, the day is twenty-four hours, not thirty-six or eighty-eight. So, media space is limited, I agree, and interests are strong. Now I will go back, reading RTV and nationals; here we have several stakeholders in this room, one being authors and certainly standing behind Slovenian authors, especially young and new ones. You know, one part is listeners, viewers, and that's citizens, and the third part is advertisers, and that's the economy. Now I'm going to go a little bit wider, to the media as an economic sector. Some of you are also journalists, and I fear that in the end, journalists will have to go to the bread world because at the turn of the 20th century, this economic sector was rapidly growing, many people were employed, and today, you will not believe, over twenty thousand people are employed in this economic sector. When we talk about advertising, we talk about watching and listening, and exactly what button we press when we get in front of the television, and what program we're going to turn on on on the radio, determines how much money someone will get from advertising, because it's a source and the source is also for the nationalist. Yes, of course, the source is also the state budget and 110th Article, which defines that the state co-finances audiovisual works and many others. However, we are talking about the economy, we are talking about a market economy and any such reckless action can have negative consequences. Remember in 2012, when the reading of printed media fell, when it lost its job in one day — for example, remember one of the magazines that was printed when it fired 120 people in one day. By defending Slovenian works, Slovenian authors, but we need analysis of what we have done so far. I would like to mention another point: we are talking to France and 40%, but the applicant does not say everything else that is in this law. There are a lot of other measures following this 40%, including this one, "... in the case of contracting audiovisual services at the request of companies, they must devote part of their net turnover from the previous year to the costs of contributing to the development of cinematographic and audiovisual European and French works". So, a story with only 40% isn't real and it's misleading. I would be happy to support this proposal for a law, especially in this part that defines day and night shows, but the listeners themselves say what they want with the button. Let me tell you that when advertisers watch what listeners want and look at their so-called target groups, they can read this – I will read the target groups of one of the commercial stations and one of the national media, the radio. Commercial: "Over average listeners are from fifteen to fifty years old, the highest household income is two thousand two hundred euros. The average listeners are from forty-five to fifty-five years old, primary school or less." And the national radio said, "The average listeners are from sixty-six to sixty years old and the average of the younger." You know, ads go towards people who are active populations, they say twenty-five to forty-five years, and that's where the money goes. Thus, it is not as simple as you claim that with four articles we can save Slovenian creators and creators. So in the future, I would like your proposal to be really more complex, to contain more solutions, not to pull them out of the drawer quickly, and change the four articles, and then you tell us that we don't support something. Above all, I would like to have more substantive discussions in this work, because the debate in the direction of patriotism alone and the support of Slovenian authors is very political. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u165	Ms. Andrej has the floor [[…]] The drafter of mags has the floor. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u166	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Initially, I would just like to stress that I am very disappointed at the discussions of the coalition Members and Members in particular, because your debate is based only on how bad this proposal is and on the search for problems in this proposal. I would expect Members and Members of the government coalition in particular to provide some solutions, for this is the purpose. Today you are the government that has predicted that it will change Slovenia and that both the economy and the standard of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia will rise. I would really expect you to give at least a solution today. No, your debate is based only on finding problems and why this proposal is bad. Despite your four-month rule, I think that the January meeting of the National Assembly makes it clear that this coalition is probably unable to resolve the situation, because there is a regular meeting of the National Assembly, January, and today we have significantly more proposals from the Slovenian Democratic Party than government coalitions. The government coalition has tabled two proposals for laws and everything else is on the side of the opposition. After four months of work! In this way I find it really difficult to convince and I think that probably even fewer citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. If it were up to you, if we didn't put anything into this procedure today, the regular meeting of the National Assembly would probably have been over about an hour ago. And here's the real disappointment on my part. On the other hand, I do not understand that all the discussions and views of coalition parties are based on one response from Radiotelevision Slovenia and that this is the basis for today's debate for you. I also think that this response from Radiotelevision Slovenia is not based on some substantial calculations or on some of the arguments given, but only how some things cannot be done. Dear colleague Guček, you said that the market economy, and in this basket you also throw radiotelevision. Radiotelevision is public and of particular importance. If this thesis is true, then we can expect that you will not have to pay the RTV subscription if it is a market segment and that they supply the source of the market. Then suggest that the RTV be cancelled. At least that's how you discussed it. Radiotelevision of special importance, national, I don't think you can throw in a shopping basket. We have also explained the purpose of the proposed amendments and the addition of this law, because we estimate that there is largely an abuse of music quotas, especially of Slovenian authors, and that most of them are broadcast during the nighttime. We are proposing a solution to limit this risk of abuse to two intervals. Above all, in audiovisual works, we are aware of the situation in which we are and that this change cannot be made overnight, so we have also proposed a transitional period of two years. As a result, if you are so committed to economic growth, we estimate that this change and addition will result in the opening up of new jobs in Slovenia. And what's going on today? Today, commercials, both radio and television broadcasts, mostly buy licensed shows abroad. But this is more than low-budget broadcasts, which are actually literally perplexing the Slovenian nation. However, quality Slovenian broadcasts cannot come on television, probably for such or other reasons. Once again, I suggest that you read this statement, which was sent by the Slovenian Union of Music Artists and Syndicate. No one's quoted this from the coalition parties today. I agree, and perhaps, let's just say that this thing that we've given, in some ways, can be flawed, but today it's the first reading. I would expect that there would be some will here and some interest after some cooperation and adoption of the best-quality laws in Slovenia, so that individual Members and Members will try to improve this proposal with quality proposals. But no! You, as I mentioned in the introduction, are only looking for problems why this matter cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u167	Replica mags. Margareta Guček Zakošek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u168	Yeah, a replica of the work that I was saying that RTV was part of a market economy. I didn't say that. It is true, however, that RTV is also partly ad-dwelling and you know it well, otherwise limited. I have stated in my work that we already have a share of 40% of Slovenian music and audiovisual works there, and the audience does not reward it, at least not those that are interesting to the economy. The population between 25 and 45 years of age is listening and watching commercial television and radio. We can discuss here as much as we want, and he will eventually announce the voice of the listener. And to command what they hear and what they do not, we cannot, so we can only lose sight and obedience. The same is true for commercial media, where we are talking about low-cost broadcasts, but which have the highest possible ratings. Yeah, why -- because they're watching them! Nobody's faking that. This is not how I spoke in terms of the market economy, but I am part of the commercial media, because there are many jobs and we can hurt them. In this part, I talked about the market economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u169	Mrs Andreja Katič, SD, has the floor to prepare Mr Marijan Pojbič, SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u170	Thank you, President. Dear Minister, distinguished secretary, colleague and colleague! I have read the government's opinion on the proposal for a law on amendments and supplements to the Media Act before us. I agree with the record that this proposal brings only individual solutions, which are not the most sophisticated; that we need a document, a strategic document that will provide guidance on the development of the media landscape in Slovenia, based on an analysis of the current situation, and a comprehensive overhaul of existing legislation. The government stated, however, that it is definitely necessary to renovate the area of the provision of regulated Slovenian music in radio and television programmes. I agree with that, too. Some Slovenian creators have presented their views to us, which I appreciate and believe when they present their views on such difficult legal matter, even in connection with copyright and related rights. Slovenian creators support raising the quota of Slovenian production in the Slovenian media area, and I believe it is necessary to approach this issue immediately, as the current legislation is not being implemented in the way it was intended. In the most listening times on our radio stations there are almost no Slovenian songs. I asked my friends and their families when they discussed the bill's proposal to list my domestic music creators. My daughter shot me like a cannon 6pack of Chukur; of course, because the Welsh song is No Life Without Vele, and then she listed several other titles of songs that we listen to most of our parents. I agree with our music creators that more Slovenian music production will also help develop this economic industry and the related jobs that we are talking about so much. More Slovenian music production in the most listening and viewed times will help to strengthen national identity, not least our Slovenian culture. In Velenje, the congregation supported the release of a CD of young music creators and also helped to produce a book from the Bible in Velenje. Even though I agree with the Government's conclusion that this law is likely to be ready quickly, it does not contain an analysis of the situation and effects, but does not address all the important issues that the Government has already raised and offers certain proposals. I expect the Government to seek solutions with the professional public as soon as possible and to present them to the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u171	Mr Marijan Pojbič, SDS, has the floor. Get Mrs. Erika Girl ready, SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Mr President! So today these two points, which I've listened to almost entirely, I have to say that I've been very sick and I'm getting sicker all the time. Except for the Slovenian Democratic Party and New Slovenia, I always listen: less Slovenian music, less Slovenian symbols, less Slovenian words. On the other hand, many red aggressor stars were carried by the Yugoslav National Army when it killed the Slovenian people. Take a look at the contribution that was available to everyone, what was happening in Šentilj, on the old Šentilj-Peznica road and so on. And on the other hand, of course, singing "them" Comrade Tito, we swear to you. This is the legitimacy, sad truth and legitimacy of most of the transition left in Slovenia. Today I hear that the Slovenian Democratic Party is the one who is responsible for everything bad that has happened in this country. The Slovenian state has existed for 25 years and this country has been run by the Slovenian Democratic Party for only 5 years – and it is supposed to be responsible for everything bad that has happened in this country! Where's the other 20 years led by the transition left? If I return just a little bit to the 2004-2008 mandate, which you always deliberately forget to mention, it was the only government that held the entire mandate. It is a government that has reduced unemployment from 96,000 to 56,000 unemployed; it has practically increased employment by 40,000; it is a government that has provided Slovenia with at least twice the economic growth when it was in the euro area, and it is a government that has compensated the state budget or reached an surplus. Always forget to say this over and over again and it is right that Slovenian taxpayers, Slovenian people know and hear the true truth. Today, I am constantly listening to why, at this meeting and at all these past meetings, we are considering practically most of the proposals proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party. It's amazing, it's sad to hear something like that from the coalition! The coalition is the one and the government is the one who should be doing this. However, it is clear in this National Assembly that the Slovenian Democratic Party and Nova Slovenija are the parties involved in Slovenia, which are concerned about the nation and which are concerned with the future of this country. And I ask that this coalition and this government come true once again. Now I'm going back to this bill. I'm going to quote. To begin with, let me say that Slovenian music creator and you will not really laugh, believe me. I quote: "About 20 years ago, all Slovenia was one Radio Slovenia. During the lone war and later, already in an independent and independent country, Slovenian music logically played most of the time. Then came modern-day media moguls who don't understand the media more than the transmission of culture, education, creative enthusiasm and belonging. Their networks, their business models, recalculations, liking measurements and other plagiaristic attributes represent a new media principle. Just business. The Slovenian listener thus met their playlists, taught him respect for his own culture, language and song in a way that rotated during the day and unconsciously repeated almost without exception foreign third-rate works and caught a percentage overnight for the quota rules of Slovenian music. Shame. And even more embarrassing is the fact that they were partially followed by a national radio on this Quizlin, slave - blind path. Do you imagine that British radio stations and BBC would be playing Indian, French, Ugandan, Chinese music during the day, and that we would be playing British at night to reach the quotas? The next day, the Prime Minister resigns, the queen kicks him in the ass. Well, we don't have a queen, and we don't have regulators in a sovereign and independent country who would have long since stopped doing that and a business model that certainly leaves profits in private accounts, but has the side effect of completely perplexing the nation, destroying its own creativity, language and ultimately indigenous culture. And from domestic creators, such a business model is poor and unemployed, and it rewards foreigners richly. We're too rich, but just a stupid country." That's what the gentleman with the name Tomaž Grubar wrote. What I have read now, and those statements that have been signed in the Slovenian Union of Music Artists, I think there is nothing to add that this area needs to be changed and changed in the context of the Slovenian Union of Music Creators and also this Mr. Slovenian Music Creator. And it is right that we did so in the Slovenian Democratic Party and put this law into the parliamentary procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get this over with. I am convinced that Slovenian music, Slovenian words, Slovenian books in national culture can never be too much if we want to strengthen the national consciousness and national identity of the Slovenian people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u173	Mr Marjan Pojbič, I note that you spoke for the first three minutes contrary to what I will now quote to you, and this is the second sentence in the second paragraph, Article 57, which reads: "The speaker may speak only of the question which is on the agenda." I give the floor to Mrs. Erika Girl, SMC. Mr. Marian Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u174	Thank you, Mr. President! I'm not going to argue with you, but I'd like to ask you nicely. I have been practically in Parliament all along, but you have been gone for a long time and it would be right to listen to and warn other debaters, not just me. I ask you very much to examine things for a second time and act as it is written in accordance with the rules of procedure of this National Assembly, and not only do you speak to the Members of one party, but do so for all of the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u175	I don't accept your motion of procedure. Firstly, there is always someone in this place who is chairman and decides on how the Rules of Procedure are applied. In your case, however, you were actually – I was right to see how long – you talked for three minutes about other things, and then you really came back to this matter. In other discussions, I did not have this feeling, nor did I actually have the immediate need to intervene. All I have warned you is that there is a rule in the Rules of Procedure that requires Members to speak on the subject on the agenda. I don't accept your procedural proposal, and I hope you won't make any more. The word is given by Mrs Erika Deklava [[…]] Mr. Jože Tanko, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u176	Yes, procedurally. Thank you for your word, Mr. President! Otherwise, I do not know how the members responsible for conducting the meeting are to be prepared for the meeting prior to the consideration of the agenda item, nor do I know how you are transferring information, but it would be good if at least at the same point the President maintained the same level of attitude towards all the debaters. It cannot happen that, for the same agenda item, one rule applies to one debater and can also benefit from the departures in individual parts from the agenda item, for others, for those less close to you, and do not allow this in any way and dare to warn each debater individually. I propose that the three of you who are holding the meeting of the National Assembly align and adjust the criteria so that the criteria are the same for all the debaters, for all of us the ninety who are Members here, at least for the same agenda item. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u177	I do not accept your proposal and continue with the debate. Mrs Erika Dekleva, SMC, has the floor to prepare Mr Simon Zajc, SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u178	Thank you for your word. I must say, after this discussion, my colleague Pojbič has passed on to this subject. Personally, I think it is a really bad time to discuss the proposal because the novel has been prepared quickly and superficially, without a preliminary analysis of the situation and effects of the introduction, some partial regulation, the proposal is incomplete and incomplete, does not address all relevant issues, does not provide a basis for assessing the impact on the economy and is nominally lacking, as well as transitional provisions. In addition, the Economic Chamber of Slovenia has comments. For example, they also consider the proposal to be bad. They believe that mandatory quotas mean censorship and enforcement, but we simply cannot tell people what they will listen to, what they will read, what they will normally see. [[…]] Moreover, it is also, of course, contrary to the principles of freedom of speech, expression and the freedom of editorial decision. If we had done some analysis earlier, we would have found that almost half of the radio stations are already broadcasting more than 40% of Slovenian music, but we cannot now force all radio stations to comply with these quotas. This would, of course, reduce the already poor media offer. That I'm not even talking about quotas on TV, because most of the new songs don't even have videos. The odds just can't force people to listen to something they don't like. The high quota is also contrary to quality. In low quotas, musicians work hard and make good music, while in high quotas they can only sit quietly in the chairs and wait for their piece on the radio to appear solely because of the quotas. In short, quotas of 40% are too much of an infringement on policy regulation and are a coerced force that will trigger resistance and have exactly the opposite effect. Of course, we all read the very negative response we received from Radiotelevision Slovenia. Now, just because that response isn't your choice doesn't mean that what they're writing isn't it. They also point to the absence of any professional justifications for an unreasonablely high flat-rate percentage of Slovenian music. They also find it inappropriate to save small production through forced media programming. Let me quote one part: 'The realisation of the proposed changes in the media landscape would lead to real devastation and would completely undermine the work of media creators. Moreover, the proposal only leads to the conclusion that it hides an unwarranted favouring of a handful of music creators, misleadingly based on national consciousness and national identity." The changes you are proposing are financially and legally problematic, and they also interfere with editorial independence and autonomy. All of this, of course, without any professional justification or analysis, and therefore such a proposal is unacceptable. We do not really reject everything just because the opposition, or the SDS, is proposing this on a permanent basis on all committees, we listen at all plenary sessions. My friend Lisec has already mentioned this today, several times, I think. Unfortunately, it's only about the fact that the suggestions, to put it mildly, are bad. Comrade Pogačnik, I agree with you, indeed. Today we are considering more of your party's proposals as governments, but these proposals are unfortunately bad. The session would have really ended an hour earlier, maybe two or three, but I believe that people would be happy in this case. We would see that we are not wasting time, not just discussing the debate, not debt, but that we are effective. I hope this isn't about competition, it's about quantity, it's about quality. That's what only voters estimate. You've been here many times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u179	The text is by the proposer, mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u180	Thank you, President, for your word. This once again shows the actual face of the Mir Cerar Party, especially with the performance of this MP now clearly says that something was said before the elections, something is promised later, but the actions are different. In some ways you are calling on the opposition to cooperate, and in any way, when the opposition wants to cooperate in some way, you want to stop this cooperation, I would say, as soon as possible. The government has not used one second in this debate. They have come to sit a little, there is no debate to tell what her opinion is, and I also assume that the Minister will not take any time today. It was interesting that, at the outset, the views of the parliamentary groups were quite uniform that this law needed to be amended. I would now like to hear from the Minister, he has one more hour available, what proposals we expect, especially when. Are you already doing something to amend the Media Act or nothing, and what solutions do you suggest? And above all, I would like to serve here with some data because you might then think more about it; namely, TOP 200 spinning songs in 2005, the ratios of Slovenian and foreign. 2005 was among the TOP 200 proposed songs 68% of Slovenian music, 32% foreign. 2013 was 32% foreign and 68% Slovenian music. This means that the situation has been reversed. TOP 10 spindle songs: Slovenia's 100 % in 2005 and Slovenia's only 20 % in 2013 and foreign 80 %. In recent days, we have listened mainly to the word "sell" and "end" from a coalition party, as well as from some of the other coalition parties. Respectable coalition, aren't those data I've just told you, really a sale and a place of Slovenian identity? During privatisation you actually have a completely different view; here, where it has actually been made, the sale and the place of Slovenian identity, you are thinking differently.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u181	Mr Simon Zajc, SMC, has the floor to prepare Dr Dragan Matić, SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u182	Thank you for your word. Given that I have some experience in the Slovenian media space, both on the radio and on television, that I have personally faced the problems that exist in this area, I welcome the objectives and purposes of this amendment of the law. The problem with radio space, as I see it, is whether one of the problems is that it lacks or lacks interest in good music editors. Today we have mostly no longer editors, but listmakers, it's called a playlist. These composers, when they look at songs and evaluate them, I don't know, 1 to 5 depending on what the radio is playing, what's consistent with their direction. Then you get the pieces on the playlist. In these playlists, they follow Germany very closely because German experts are also educating our owners of radio stations and editors. Therefore, you may also have noticed that there is no greater difference between private radio stations today, all by the same hoof. Almost everything, not all, that I will not be wronged to any degree, revolve around the day somewhere, or spin 250 to 300 different songs in the whole band, and these are constantly repeated. Those radio stations that began to practice this way are now leading private radio stations because this model has been tested. Slovenian songs, however, tend to spin at night. That's right. So at night it is really every radio Radio S. Here I agree with the proposaler that it is necessary to prevent the abuse of daily quotas, and I support their solution. I also agree that young musicians and Slovenian creativity must be supported. However, raising the quota to 40% will not solve this. Remember what I said earlier when I was putting together a playlist. If we raise the quota, we'll just listen to one and the same pieces several times a day, some creators, of course, that fits, but it won't increase creativity. This problem needs to be addressed in an integrated manner and we will. Then I will support some of your solutions. If I get a quick look at the TV. Quality does not absolutely bring quality. I used to work on that kind of TV. If you are doing something just to fill the space, it will certainly have a negative impact on the quality of the show. In addition, the restrictions on repetitions are non-life; they only allow for a first repetition, and then for five years, not or if repeated, they no longer go into this quota. Following this proposal, RTV Slovenia should create or buy up at least 600 hours, 150 from independent producers. Such a provision would cost RTV the new EUR 20 million, an additional EUR 20 million, which is now their total programming cost. This would be covered by an RTV subscription, about €36 per year for each RTV subscriber. By comparison, RTV currently buys 25 hours where it's only 150 hours! Two years, I don't know if that's enough. These changes would in fact destroy RTV Slovenia, because I doubt that citizens and citizens would agree that we would raise RTV subscriptions for this percentage. Let me get this straight. The purposes of the law seem good to me, but I do not think that this change is nearly enough because it is ready for quick, without analysis and underestimation of the financial consequences. However, I am pleased that today we have this proposal on the table, perhaps unlike all others, because it suggests that you may later support a comprehensive reform of the media law, which will also pursue these same objectives.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u183	Dr. Dragan Matić, SMC, has the word to prepare Mr. Peter Wilfan, Alliance.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u184	Thank you for your word, President. With regard to the very words put forward by the SDS that we are not prepared to cooperate, I must express my disappointment at what they have sent as a proposal for an amendment to the procedure. Because what has been sent to the procedure is not actually worth one parliamentary party that has such a kilometer behind it as the Slovenian Democratic Party does. It is essentially a semi-product that has not even made a basic analysis of the side effects of these alleged benefits based on one and only assumption that increasing quantity will also result in an increase in quality. They were not even thinking that an administrative measure simply could not guarantee the visibility or obedience of certain programmes, but that it would bring only quality. Quality without investment, systematic promotion of the quality production of young creators, will not come and will not be heard much today. Here I think that the novel has completely missed the essence of the problem, but in some ways it has limited itself to defending the interests of a group of already established creators, which I think such an approach cannot bring a particularly good solution. In all of the proposal, the only point which was essentially of some reasonable importance is the fact that the obligation to produce Slovenian music must be regulated even on a daily basis and not only on a night basis, but, dear colleagues from SDS, that is too little to begin any fruitful cooperation at this point. I hope the government prepares some in the shortest possible time. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u185	The word is Violeta Tomic, United Left. Get Mr. Jože Tanko ready, SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u186	I would like to know which quota is the SDS EPP presented to us by Mr Pojbič? But the EPP is a paid program. It is important to stress and you should all know that Mr Pojbič has read the letter from Vice-President SAZAS, and we have repeatedly said that SAZAS has a considerable interest in this law and that the creators of music, believe me, have nothing, but at the very least benefit. I know the creators, and I can tell you firsthand that that's true. Of course, we are not opposed to music quotas, but we are adding that they are not enough, because it is important to create the conditions for domestic creativity, because in addition to the amount of domestic music we all want to listen to quality music. Indeed, there is much more foreign music, but this is also the case because more recent music is too small — domestic, quality. The number of new songs and the number of domestic creators is not growing, but falling, the number of first published phonograms from year to year can be said to be quite critical. This should be information that could be of interest to all those responsible for domestic creativity and the conditions of their work. Mr Podkoršek said that patriotism is the most frequently mentioned word here, and I must really agree with that. Amazingly, with all this increasing patriotism, it is associated with this, with the coat of arms, the anthem, with where the flag should hang, we would even like to legitimize it. In the United Left, we believe that patriotism is strengthened by a fair pay for honest work, with the possibility of accessing quality public health services, with the possibility of educating our children. And you're saying that patriots are our neighbors Of course they're patriotic, remember the reaction the Croats had when they were supposed to buy one of the Croatian complexes? [[…]] That was patriotic! We calmly sold them all the hotels off the coast and claim that the Bay of Piran is ours. patriotism, where is this patriotism when we sell our companies, our airports, our public good? It is true that the Media Act needs to be scrutinised and, above all, that the parties and the ruling coalitions will not be involved in the public service programming schemes. You know, creative freedom is what creators need, and it's the country that has to provide the conditions for creation and then there's going to be a lot more of this patriotism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u187	In view of the criteria I had previously set, this time it was not so concise, but part of this debate went beyond what was the topic. That is why, as a last resort, I give the floor to Mr Jožet Tank, SDS. As the last one, the Magi's proponent should be prepared. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, perhaps a word about how we dealt with the announcement of time at the college. Ally Alenka Bratušek, Mr Jani Möderndorfer has warned that the applicant or those who will announce the time to announce it in accordance with expectations and what they will spend. Now I note that the Government has announced much too much time for the debate; an hour of time, and at the time of the debate, neither the Minister of State nor her Secretary of State have been pleased to report to the debate, which in fact does not offer good promises for the work of the Government forward and certainly not a good image of the Government now. It is difficult to expect from the Government after 4.5 months, or even further to any system-wide complex analytical solutions, if even the Government is not in a position to paralyse the debates of Members; not opposition or coalitions. No argument, no substantiation to the Government's position at this time of 4 and a half hours, which would have been under discussion, was able to be added, except for those 5 introductory minutes, when they read the prepared text, probably based on the RTV position. I note that the difficult times for Slovenian culture are, because in such important things as the support of domestic Slovenian culture, that the Government and the coalition do not find some important arguments in the proposals we have discussed today and proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, it is difficult to expect. You are talking about giving an encouraging environment for the development of Slovenian culture. How, in what way, if much or most of Slovenian music production revolves in the nighttime? I ask you, Madam Minister, to which the market is intended – Slovenia sleeps at that time. Which market is it intended to play Slovenian music during the night? American, Azerbaijani, Indian? How will we create the conditions for the development of Slovenian music, music production, if we allow Slovenia's music creators to marginalise themselves and no one does anything about it. Even the government coalition, which is alerted to the problem, mocks our proposal and says that our proposals are not incomplete, that our proposals are flawed and so on. If this criterion, as discussed by the coalition Members, were to be maintained in this mandate and effectively defended, then no government law should have so far passed through the legislative procedure. Not one but ratifications! Look, just look at the government's bill proposals, how many times have they been amended to come through the legislative process, and you are not referring any of the concerns you have today in our bill proposals to the Government. You never once raised your hand to reject the law. Not once! Even more, most of your proposals for laws are prepared so that we cannot even have a general debate on the law because you are proposing them serialally, in short and in urgent proceedings. Do not even allow a debate in the National Assembly! We make such proposals, thank God, we do not propose and are prepared to face anyone in the National Assembly in our proposal for a law. Several of you have talked about the analysis that we are missing from our proposal for an analysis. What do we need in this analysis? Mr Marko Pogačnik told you earlier how the share of Slovenian music production in the media fell, from two thirds to one third, and that between those of the TOP 10 recorded since 2005 there were ten songs between the first 10 years of 2005 and now only one or two. Do you need any further analysis? I'm asking because if necessary, we'll give you another document, but you got these documents anyway because they were sent to you by the association at the same time as we did. What you're saying about these matters is a complete misdirection. If the coalition is not prepared to support a law that clearly improves the position of Slovenian creators, then do not talk about improving the environment for Slovenian creators. Because despite this information, which was presented to you by the eminent Slovenian creators, you are defending the status quo. You advocate the marginalisation of Slovenian music and audio production! I think it's time to allow a wide range of capable Slovenian music creators to turn from this afternoon's creator into a professional creator. By marginalizing them when we push them to rob, we do not allow them, we do not give them conditions so that we can fully devote ourselves to music production, music work, creation, but they do so in addition to another job. As it were, the afternoon espas are not just the afternoon espas; it depends on what kind of work they have. It is then difficult to talk about ensuring the conditions for creating additional production of young creators if we marginalise them. If the government coalition is unable to listen and allow conditions to be created for creativity to develop, but does everything to make the creativity of the soul impossible to talk about, then it is impossible to talk about anything other than the strangulation of Slovenian music production. I don't know, maybe you like that two-thirds of the space is dedicated to foreign music. Maybe you like it. I would prefer that this share be different and that it would also be more evenly distributed – to be evenly distributed throughout the programming time. All those who have expressed great concern that this will affect propaganda or advertising time and space in the media, in fact, you have the wrong idea. If all the creators, if all the media work under the same conditions and the same regime, in principle nothing will change completely. Nothing at all! Not in advertising, not in marketing another space, and so on! Only the structure of the space that fills this will change – the share of Slovenian music production. And nothing else. As far as the Public Institute of Radiotelevision is concerned. The public service Radiotelevision Slovenia is a special institution and that is why we all pay it, all those who have electric counters. We all pay for it. We pay it to maintain Slovenian production because for various reasons it may be less competitive, perhaps less commercial, and we try to keep it in this part compared to commercial media because commercial media – and most of them in Slovenia – have a different purpose, another purpose. The public service of Radiotelevision must not have this commercial purpose. We have it that is exactly the share of Slovenian music film, drama and other creativity of conservation. Only for that! If the director of the Public Institute of Radiotelevision writes that this will cost 20 million only if one thing changes by 10% – from 40% to 50% – then all those who have been monitoring for a little while, what happens to the Public Institute of Radiotelevision, we know that this is not true. In your mind, or in your business reports, you can't look at it, it can't hold it. He can't hold! This can also be provided by the Minister covering this area. If the purpose of this letter from the director of Radiotelevision was serious, then I would add to what you're asking all the time, which is the analysis. These analyses, accompanied by the opinion or opinion of the Director of Radiotelevision, are not available and will probably be difficult to obtain. It is true that we have had a different meaning in certain times before, and we do not deny it, because no law prepared by your government will last forever, no solution will last forever, because the situation is changing, the situation is changing, and when the need for change is perceived, it is necessary to react. I think you've received calls from all the parliamentary groups or the wishes of many for some kind of conversation. They sent us, just as you did, the creators of the day ago, and I think what we've been doing actually stands. I think that the government and also the coalition in the National Assembly should do their utmost to tackle cultural problems as well. If you approach problems like this when no one says anything, nobody says anything, nobody suggests anything, nor the government that is most called for it, then it will be difficult to get any comprehensive solution to this problem or to the regulation of the media landscape. It's hard. That's impossible. If today, when we have such a simple matter ahead of us, such as correcting only some solutions that are not well regulated in the current legislation, they are particularly to the detriment of Slovenian creators who marginalise them, then it is difficult to expect anything good in this area, as far as media work, audiovisual work and other areas of culture are concerned. This is such a slow response to real problems that I don't know if we're going to see them until the end of the term of office, even though this four-year-old will be. However, I would expect, of all those who have criticized us so much, some in an area that we should have known a little more than others in order to draw up a proposal for a law based on analysis. The entire coalition in the National Assembly has not prepared a single law, although you obviously have a lot of ideas, you have many arguments for what we are proposing; but that we should put what you are reading into our text of the law, which we have not yet experienced. I suggest that if the Government fails to do so, Mr President said that our proposals for laws fall because we do not have sufficient professional support in the National Assembly, then I propose that you do something to encourage this peaceful support by the ministries in the government building to come up with encouraging and responsive proposals that will solve individual issues. I must say that I am extremely disappointed with the government's approach in this case as regards the area of culture. Madam Minister, this opinion, which you sent, why you reject our proposal for a law, I think that the second or third document is from your field. We also received a similar view in the previous marriage, why there is no reason why it is opposed to our solution and some answers to the questions of the Members. We've been through this for the first four months. If you choose this technology of work, then it is difficult to expect that you will get any support from us, because when you in such an unreasonable way reject us the proposals of laws that are urgently needed, which solve vital problems in certain areas so that we do not come too far. We also continue to have several proposals for laws that have experienced the same argument by the Government that they are not comprehensive. I think it is time for this government structure and the structure of the National Assembly to be somewhat consolidated, to actually look at where the problems, what needs to be done, if not going in one step, to move gradually, and this is also the way – and we propose that some solutions are being pursued gradually. What we have proposed with the amendment of the Media Law is a step in a particular segment in a better direction, in the direction of improvement. As a result, neither commercial media will be affected, the Public Institute of Radiotelevision will be affected, but there will be much more satisfaction with Slovenian music creators who will be able to focus more on this area and also raise the quality after all. It is hard to expect someone who works on the margin who works under difficult conditions, who is forced to engage in activities in an unprofessional way, achievements such as those of professionals elsewhere. The speciality of the Slovenian market is that this market is extremely small and strongly influenced by other major nations around us, especially the southern and western ones. I think that before the government, which has just fled, as well as the coalition MPs in the National Assembly, is so defined, we should go ahead with the proposals for laws that we are making in good faith in the National Assembly, to look at this in some way more seriously, to focus more on these things and not fall into this flat-rate assessment that things are non-systematic, that they are not comprehensive and so on. None of the laws you will bring into the legislative process, either as a government or as coalition MPs, will be comprehensive. Not one. None of them will be able to go beyond the texts with the necessary amendments through the legislative process. None of them will have to delete any article because either it will be pleonasm or it will be unconstitutional or otherwise. To use this amount of time limits only to tell the biggest opposition party in this area that has made an effort to possibly have a flaw in this proposal is probably a very bad sign and a bad message. Here you have also received a letter, this SUGU which warns that already two years ago, three years ago they signed several petitions and also addressed them to the Government and also to the public. These petitions have not been made to make these Slovenian music creators a superstandard. They are written to provide them with at least minimum standards for the performance of what we expect from Slovenian musicians and other creators. In the field of the book, from this area of culture, there are several Slovenian cultural artists, writers living from a special state subsidy, although some projects are not put on the market. In this area, it is more or less a purely commercial activity of these authors. No one is likely to have a special state subsidy for being a music creator. This is probably a problem in this area, and I think that all of these people should be heard; what we are proposing is to be complemented by some solutions that may be even better, but certainly not this way, but the priorities, as we have witnessed today, are to be put under the table and go home cheerfully. As for respectable discussers who talk about wasting time. You get a salary and we do whether we have a meeting of the National Assembly or not. For every single day. And talking about the best way to avoid wasting time in the National Assembly means that the nicest thing to do is to be at home and sit down and just get this lump sum that we get as employees in the National Assembly. It is our task, and we take this seriously in our country, to try, to make laws, to prepare solutions, to put them in place, to defend them, to defend them, and we will continue to do so. But all those who have trouble wasting time by being forced to participate in the debate do not announce time, after all. Whether this is the case for the Ministry or the Ministry, there are no large differences, also for the Group of Members. But we're ready when the laws that we're waiting for come, I said that once before, to come on Sunday, so that we can sort these things out, accept them, deal with them, etc. But it's not, people of God. There's no such thing! We wait four months, you think in depth, you're probably preparing analyses, strategies, but solutions that solve a problem are extremely slow. In this session, there is only one such law on the fiscal rule you have tabled. Thus, it is also necessary to have a certain degree of understanding when criticising the activity of a group of Members. We are in the National Assembly to propose, regardless of the area, whether it be culture, justice, internal affairs, finance to propose solutions. And given how the Members of the coalition groups discuss it, it is as if you deny us this right. As if we have the right to propose something that we think is necessary and good, you deny. And also, just to warn you – although the President is already waiting to say so – I think that this should be taken with a certain amount of understanding and also our contribution to the fact that the situation in the Slovenian space is somehow improving for those who want to contribute anything. The area of music creation is one such; the area of distribution of resources concerning music creators, etc., is also an area that is extremely problematic. It's the only thing that's settled in another marriage. This will fall under a different regime, and it is likely that the government, not the coalition and not the opposition, will not be able to avoid it. And if the government doesn't do something quickly, I assure you that there will be another area in the field of culture, regardless of the wishes or comments you will have by the coalition Members and the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u189	Before I give my word to the Minister of Culture, he's just noticing that procedural part of your performance. Indeed, I agree with the Government's irrational announcement of its time and, before you made this comment, I have ordered a letter in this regard, so that the Government will also be warned in writing that it must make more rational announcements of its time. Now I give the floor to the Minister of Culture of Mags. Juliani Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Your Honor! First of all, I wanted to save time for all of us, on the other hand, because I'm actually embarrassed to talk about it. So, it's only six articles, but you know, there are so many shortcomings in these six articles, so many shortcomings that I had to book an hour to discuss. However, when I saw where the debate was going, that you had already identified certain shortcomings, even with the help of being later than we were at the ministry. [[…]] So, we didn't know about these proposals that came later from RTV Slovenia, and the rest, we prepared these things ourselves and somehow found that we also match what the coalition said today. That is why I thought at first that I would save time for everyone, including the viewers in front of the TV screen, because I think we should start, at least as far as politics is concerned, doing a little differently; but not for a political party to make a flawed law just because it is put into the procedure and then fights between each and the other. I think that each party, regardless of what it is that is actually proposing, should be different from those proposed in this law. However, I would like to say what are the other reasons for rejecting this law, which, of course, cannot be supported because of the many shortcomings that I have already pointed out in my introductory part. Thus, provisions are lacking to allow faster and more effective control, both by the Agency for Communications Networks and Services of the Republic of Slovenia and also by the Slovenian Cultural and Media Inspectorate and to establish appropriate sanctions for offenders. The current media law does not provide for prescribed fines for the failure to achieve the prescribed share of Slovenian audiovisual works, and this law has not been drafted by the current coalition. Greater quotas would significantly increase inflows to organisations such as SAZAS. We understand this interest, but we are working first at the Ministry for the transparent operation of such organisations, which fall within the framework of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Technology. This ministry is therefore actively involved in strengthening the control of SAZAS and other such organisations, where it is only in this way that we can ensure that quotas are, at least, respected or otherwise respected. The applicant submits that with more precise definitions in the field of the definition of audiovisual works it is possible to more effectively monitor and consequently respect the prescribed shares, while the provisions on control, namely Articles 108 and 109 of the Media Act, are not being amended at all. The area of the regulated share of Slovenian music in radio and television programmes remains incomplete, as the proposal for the amendment does not abolish the provisions of the current Media Act, which considers the performance of Slovenian music to be part of its own production. Nor does it solve the entirely clear dilemma which music is considered to be Slovenian music at all: music in Slovenian language or music produced by Slovenian citizens. In Article 1, the applicant amends the second paragraph of Article 68, thereby narrowing the concept of Slovenian audiovisual works to those expressed in any way as individual intellectual services in the field of literature, science and art and has written a synopsis and or a script for them. With this change, a number of audiovisual works, such as video clips, talk shows, television shows and others could no longer be considered as audiovisual works, since they are not synopses and/or scenarios, even though such works correspond to all professional concepts of audiovisual activity or audiovisual work. Instead of unifying the various definitions of audiovisual works, this definition, which is in this amendment of the law, would further confuse existing definitions, which are in the Law on the Slovenian Film Centre, the Law on Copyright and Related Rights and elsewhere. The proposed definitions unduly change and enhance the concept of audiovisual work compared to other regulations in the Republic of Slovenia. Moreover, the concept is not clearly defined. The bill's proposal, as has been said, is not based on any analysis of the state of Slovenian music and audiovisual production. This would be necessary in particular in the field of Slovenian music production, as the proposal for a new law in Article 2 provides for a double increase in the current regulatory share of Slovenian music on commercial programmes, half of which must be Slovenian music, less than 5 years old. The national interest followed by the Ministry is certainly in the performance of Slovenian music; however, it is not said that the Slovenian music market is large enough to provide enough quality music. It should not happen that, in order to comply with the increased prescribed shares, less quality Slovenian music, which is not entirely suitable for the national programme, would be contrary, of course, to the requirements and expectations we have for example, for Radiotelevision Slovenia. This is particularly the case because, according to the proposal of the amendment, at least half the share of Slovenian music should be the music production of Slovenian creators and creators, who are under 5 years of age. And this market is so much narrower. The opening part of the amendment does not contain an analysis of the potential quantity, the quantity of quality Slovenian music that could fill so high a prescribed proportion. In view of the above, the preliminary examination of the proposal for a new law would be even more important and the analysis of the consequences would be even more important. The proposed amendment does not take into account the development of the thematic programmes of Slovenian publishers, where it is particularly necessary to examine whether the prescribed share of domestic production can be achieved, for example in film and documentary thematic programmes. According to some data, this could not be possible, but the applicant does not have any analysis or unsatisfactory answers in order to be accepted or rejected by the contrary. Thus, the purpose or reason for detailed and stricter regulation of the area of regulated shares of Slovenian audiovisual works in RTV Slovenia TV programmes remains only at the level of desire for a greater share of Slovenian works, which by the way is also the aim of the Ministry of Culture. However, the Ministry is aware of its responsibilities for the seriousness of the proposals made, which is why we are convinced that the consequences of the possible introduction of such large shares must be examined first. The fact that the proposals are premature also proves that the applicant does not explain convincingly why, according to the new Slovenian audiovisual works, only premieres and first repetitions are considered, which is, by the way, also a departure from the regulation applicable to European audiovisual works. Such a provision may have financial implications, for example for the regional centres of Television Koper and Television Maribor, which would require a higher contribution to Slovenian audiovisual works and independent production. The proposal for a new law further wrongly states that the bill has no financial implications for the state budget. The proposal introduces a register of independent producers, which entails additional burdens both for existing work obligations, for keeping a register, for monitoring and budgeting, any additional employment needs and for producers themselves the obligation to register – payment of the fee. It also introduces an additional administrative obstacle, introduces a new procedure or register. The proposal for a new law refers in particular to the French and Croatian arrangements from the point of view of comparative arrangements, where the Croatian regime is expected to be identical to the current Slovenian regime and therefore cannot serve as a justification for the proposed amendments. Thus, the applicant remains subject to a French regime which, within the framework of the European Union, is to be regarded as an exception in the field of regulated parts of production in the French language. Therefore, we are missing in the comparative review in addition to the analysis of the situation and effects of at least some other country's case, which could serve as an example of good practice due to comparability with Slovenia. Article 4 of the amendment amends the second paragraph of Article 92 of the Media Act and adds the new sixth paragraph of that Article. Slovenian audiovisual works on the first and second TV programme of Radiotelevision of Slovenia must total at least 25% of the annual broadcasting time, with one quarter or 6.25% of this share – I would remind you here that one quarter of this share is not 6,25% – should be created by independent producers or at least 600 hours of prime Slovenian audiovisual works and at least 150 hours of prime Slovenian audiovisual works by independent producers. It should be examined whether the proposed amendment to the law is feasible, for example, for Radiotelevision of Slovenia, as it appears that it does not annually obtain as many programme audiovisual content as would achieve the proposed mandatory time for premiere broadcasts. In addition, the financial sustainability of the proposed amendment should be examined, as according to some data it would mean that Radiotelevision Slovenia should significantly increase the current means of production if it wants to create, acquire or buy at least 600 hours of prime Slovenian audiovisual works and at least 150 hours of prime Slovenian audiovisual works of independent producers, if we are looking at the narrow definition of Slovenian audiovisual works, as stated in the proposal for the amendment. The quantitative increase in the mandatory share of appropriate or new audiovisual works does not at the same time guarantee an increase in quality, but can, as we have already stressed, result in a reduction in the quality of the programme. This is contrary to the public interest, which is why Radiotelevision Slovenia is established by law at all. Once again, I would like to draw attention to the error in the proposal for a second paragraph, since 6,25 % is not one quarter of the share. Paragraph 6 provides that the Ministry of Culture shall maintain a register of independent producers, which shall be updated twice a year by means of associations representing independent producers. The proposal for a law is also nominally flawed, in particular in the case of a provision for the maintenance of a register of independent producers. The draft law does not specify the procedure or manner in which such register is maintained, the registration and deletion of the register, the communication of amendments and so on. It does not specify the conditions for registration in the register, nor does it provide that the register is updated by means of associations representing independent producers, and in terms of management and decision-making in administrative procedures is entirely inappropriate. However, there are other shortcomings in the proposal for a new law, such as the lack of criteria for assessing the eligibility of entry into the register. Thus, there are no provisions on the criteria or the possibility of assessing the country's eligibility of the producer to independent producer status. A transitional provision is also not technically appropriate for the application of the amended third paragraph of Article 86 at the latest two years after the entry into force of this Act, as this would mean that it could be applied at any time within two years. This is unacceptable from the point of view of legal certainty, since the time of application of the provisions or regulations must be fully established. It follows from the proposal for a new law that the proposed solutions have been prepared quickly, without a preliminary analysis of the situation, incomplete and incomplete, as they address only specific areas of media regulation and also do not address all relevant issues within specific areas and their justification is very short and does not provide a comprehensive basis for an effective impact assessment. Let me get on with it. The proposal for a new law is not in line, as we said, with the National Programme for Culture 2014-2017, which envisages a comprehensive revision of media legislation rather than partial solutions. From SDS Members you also voted in favour of the first signed Jože Tanko, Andrej Chuš, mag. Branko Grimes, Tink Lah, mag. Marko Pogačnik and Ljubo Žnidar. The proposal for a new law is also not in line with the decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth, adopted on 6 October 2009, which states: "The strategy for the development of radio and television programmes in the Republic of Slovenia should be created between the Broadcasting Council, the APEC, publishers and the Ministry of Culture. The strategy should be the basis for preparing changes and supplementing the media law." The proposals for this Decision were: Franc Pukšič, SDS or SDS. Finally, it should be mentioned that the proposal for a law was tabled on 16 January this year and is today, 9 days later, at first reading. It is problematic that the political party that has tabled the proposal for a new law has not invited the professional and other public to make their views and comments, not from the point of view of the procedure, but from the point of view of what each law is supposed to contain, that is to say, the treatment also, as regards the professional and lay public, of course interested, is a major flaw. I think that's a problem, too. It also follows from my comments on the proposal for a new law, which I have seen in the meantime, that there was not enough time to involve the professional and other public in the debate on the proposal for a new law. The fact that the expert and other public do not have the opportunity to comment on the proposal for a new law already falls within the field of transparency or that the applicant does not wish or does not consider it important for the public to define themselves in general as to the solutions it proposes. Regardless of everything that has already been said, I would like to thank the proposed amendment of the law for its good intentions and also for the constructive proposals in terms of direction towards increasing the regulatory shares of Slovenian production, which will certainly be examined in the preparation of comprehensive amendments to media legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u191	Procedural? Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, distinguished president, colleagues! Approximately 70, 80% of what the distinguished minister has just read is written literally in the government's opinion that you have received 23. 1. Mediated on the table, literally. Madam Minister, we do not need to read the things that the Government has already provided and that we have held a debate that you have not applied to. You really expanded this thing with a few passages, that's true, but more or less, most of it. As for what you're saying about shortcomings. For the laws entered into the legislative procedure, the National Assembly shall have a legislative and legal service to warn about the compatibility of the proposed law with the Constitution and the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. This applies to your laws. This applies to our legal proposals. The judgment on whether, if so, you would have left the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, so that we would not now flatly determine here what should or would not be consistent and inappropriate. Mr President, we have proposed that some of the articles of the law be corrected, we have not gone into system regulation, that is certainly true, and that was not our goal either. We wait and hope that this systemality, perfection and ideality will one day occur. We've only fixed the structure that's the problem. And I hope this is acceptable to the government. As far as it is clear that we have not done this in its entirety, and we cannot because what the Minister has said concerns some other laws that are not in the process. However, what we are proposing is in line with the Media Act, and we are correcting the provisions of the Media Act. The fact that we did not allow for any broader public debate would, however, suggest a greater focus on the government. Yesterday you could have listened to the five laws in the field of justice to which the Government is bound, but did not put them into public debate at the prescribed time. Members, we are not committed to this. However, if the law goes into the next stage of consideration, we can present a public presentation of opinions on the proposed matter – and this is the one that decides. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u193	Mr. Tanko, I listened very carefully. The whole matter is not a piece of procedurality that was intended for me, but was intended for discussion with the Minister. I'm warning you because you abused her procedurally. Now he's got the word "proposer of mags." Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u194	Mr President, thank you for saying so. In the introduction, it must be clarified by the proposer that we have not proposed this novel for any purpose because of SAZAS, as you said in your speech, Commissioner. I don't know where you found SAZAS. And, Madam Minister, I have asked you quite a few questions during the debate and you have not answered any questions. Now you've spent twenty-five minutes here to read the government's position, which you've already somehow downloaded in those five minutes of the presentation. Yours says you don't want to cut us some time and you'd rather be quiet about it, I think it's such a weak signal. However, I would like to ask you if you will answer any question, given that there has also been a call by a number of coalition Members or Members of Parliament, that changes to this law are absolutely necessary, and when will you, as Minister, put in the procedure for amending this law. You still have time, I think you can answer that, and I expect this answer from you, or if you're already doing something to change this law. I think that we have made clear where the reasons for this change or addition were, there are abuses, as a result of which they are also limited, I would say, works, especially by Slovenian authors and creators. This does not create any perspective in this area. I think that with such a change in the law in some way we could open up a lot of jobs in Slovenia, give some encouragement, but today in all that is happening – I think the numbers I have presented before are clear and tell us a lot about what was playing Slovenian music in 2005 and what was playing or listening to this music between the TOP 10, TOP 200 in 2013. There was also a lot of talk about quotas and it should be stressed that quotas are a constant of the European Union and that this is the only logical defence against the multinationals who are creating this matter. I mean, if one France can afford quotas, then there is no doubt that Slovenia has to have them three times more. Because I think that the French language is much more familiar in the world and also in their songs, and if France has opted for a quota of 40%, then we should be significantly larger if we are to protect our cultural identity, word, Slovenian language and, above all, to encourage Slovenian authors and co-authors. In today's debate, I was also surprised by the fact that you put yourself exclusively on the side of the media moguls. Neither one of you has read or said one point of view, which is advocated by Slovenian music creators. You have put yourself exclusively on the side of media motors in Slovenia, both commercial stations and Radiotelevision Slovenia. But here I am interested in the reasons why you've put yourself on one side so 100 percent. Is there any interest in it or is there anything else? Neither of you relied on at least one record given by Slovenian authors. As I know, they also visited individual parliamentary groups; but – no! You're solely on the side of the media mogul. We are still convinced that this proposal was on the ground, especially because it is the first reading, and no matter what the debate shows today, the coalition voting apparatus will actually overtake this proposal, that in some way we have made a quality debate in the Slovenian Democratic Party with this procedure today, in this direction that we are aware of this problem in some way. I hope that at least something of this will be taken by the Government of Mira Cerar, and you, the respected Minister of Culture, will also take up the lease, in order to prepare this law as soon as possible and to supplement the media that will go into the procedure. For if this trend continues, I think this Slovenian identity, Slovenian word, Slovenian music will be lost. Respectable coalition, as I mentioned earlier, with regard to this data from 2005, 2013 – we could talk about the sale and the theft of Slovenian identity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u195	Thank you. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. Yes, you do. If you would also like to discuss the representative of the proposal's proposal for the Magi Act. Marko Pogačnik and a representative of the government, please report with a raise. I'm asking you to sign up. Each debater has 5 minutes of time available. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u196	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President! Dear Minister, respectable colleagues and colleagues! Today's debate may still be sharp at times, but it has shown that this is an area that colleagues wanted to solve better than it has been so far. This is said to be the area of Slovenian music in Slovenian media to be revised and better regulated than so far. We must not be ashamed of our culture, our Slovenian music. We have excellent composers, world-renowned composers, including performers, and I find it difficult to accept that this quota, which is prescribed so that we can hear it practically at radio stations at night when an ordinary citizen sleeps. We have such a musical treasurer that the day is too short, should have at least 48 hours. Why are we ashamed of why we should not take our own Slovenian stand? Why do we not represent our Slovenian culture, in this case Slovenian music? If we think about it this way, that we will be shy on a European and global scale, what I have previously troubled and foretold in some way that our culture, in particular our Slovenian music, will stand in this great European pot and will not. She just won't be here. My cousin, I'm sure he hardly knows him among you, Dr. France Gypsy, born in 1908 in my village, and worked most of his most important years in Slovenian Koroška among Slovenians – Madam Minister certainly knows his work, he collected folk songs among Slovenians in Austrian Koroška – he said, among other things, that we will live Slovenians, he says, we will exist for as long as we sing. I think that this is a profound truth, and we should also be aware of that by the Members. In the first reading, I will support the proposal of the law in the hope that we will give this proposal a chance and that, if necessary, we will improve it in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u197	Thank you. Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u198	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all, including our visitors! In the National Assembly, we often talk about national interest and the interesting fact that we are always on different sides. When we talk about the ownership of businesses, the other side is very disturbed if these companies are foreign-owned. Of course, I would also be happy and pleased if we had many Slovenian owners who are rich, because they are decent and working, not those who have come to wealth unfairly, but, therefore, those who are good and working have the right to be rich, and it is an injustice to deny them this right. But it doesn't matter to me whose factory is owned, it's important that there are jobs, that people can work, earn, pay taxes and live normally. It is very important to me whether Slovenian culture, Slovenian song, Slovenian word will be preserved. Only us, just us, Slovenians, can guarantee that. And is Slovenian songs, Slovenian music to a large extent broadcast on foreign radio stations or foreign televisions? Probably not, I hope not; in foreign media, in media covering Slovenians around the world, for sure. But, Slovenian culture, the language can only be kept by us and we must be very careful in this area. All our debates have also shown that simply radio stations do not take into account the law so far and mainly play Slovenian music in less hearing times. That's what most of us have found. So, there is something wrong with this law and we expect – although we will support this law, this amendment to the law, so that if it is not adopted – from the Minister, that she will soon put a new law into the procedure, where all these concerns will be taken into account, where we will also find different, better solutions and, above all, solutions in support of Slovenian culture, Slovenian operators. If some have said that SAZAS will now benefit – yes, because SAZAS also collects money for foreign contractors, here I only think it is better for Slovenian contractors to get it. And when will we have a better quality — if we have more of them, if they are better paid, if they do not give up, because at the beginning there is no attention to their work. So, I think this is not about the profits of these, but actually for commercial purposes of certain radio stations, television stations, which take too little account of Slovenian authors. If we quoted one, we must say that other Slovenian operators have also spoken to us, but they want this amendment to the law to be supported. I wish that, if not, I would, of course, appeal to the Minister, that all the comments she has heard today take into account and submit a new proposal; one that will actually support Slovenian culture, to Slovenian operators.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u199	Thank you. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide in half an hour, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 7.50 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u200	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue the 12th item of the agenda, with consideration of the Proposal for a Declaration on guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union from July 2014 to December 2015. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to the EU sub-chapter as a global actor and relations with strategic partners in the External Affairs and Defence chapter. The competent working body, the Committee on Foreign Policy, does not support the amendment. We're voting. Aborted. Is everything okay? So we're voting again. We're starting the vote. There are 71 Members present, who voted 2 and 68 against. [[You voted for two.]] [[Against 68.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. This concludes the vote on the amendment and brings us to a decision on the proposal for a declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union in 2015. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the competent working bodies or at the meeting of the National Assembly would make the proposal for a declaration inconsistent. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 3. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the declaration has been accepted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda – with the first reading of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the coat of arms, flag and anthem of the Republic of Slovenia and on the Slovenian National flag. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the coat of arms, flag and anthem of the Republic of Slovenia and on the Slovenian National flag is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u201	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, fellows! Today we have talked a lot about awareness, Slovenian symbols, Slovenian values, Slovenian cultures, and obviously this government coalition has decided that this is not an important topic, while this same coalition is likely to continue tomorrow with a debate on its own national interest, where, of course, it is a major profit and where this government coalition has very strong desires and appetites. For the last time, I would like to point out that there is no change in Slovenian symbols. The coat of arms stays the same. The flag stays the same. The hymna remains the same; we just want to perform the entire 8-kit version at the national celebrations, and at other times another guitar is performed, which increases the Slovenian people, and the current seventh kit. I particularly appeal to you, my dear colleagues, to adopt this law at first reading because this law has one serious flaw. There's still fines in tolars. I hope that, in all these years, it is time for our second currency to change the currency system we use in this law. Of course, we wanted to touch on the prohibition of the enlargement of totalitarian systems in the SDS Group. Unfortunately, the minister surprised me by not even knowing what totalitarian systems are and by doing so he probably opened one of Pandora's boxes called extremism in Slovenia, which we are talking about, but we are doing very little to try to remove it from our political agenda. In short, I hope that the next time we talk about Slovenian values, Slovenian symbols and Slovenian culture, not only will they be full of words, but also actions.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u202	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Group, Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer. Then it's the wrong information. Anita Kolesh on behalf of the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u203	Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished president! In the SMC Group, we do not support the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the coat of arms, flag and anthem of the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovenian National flag because it does not achieve the objectives set. The proposed changes are illogical, unnecessary or do not fall within the legal content that is changing and contain inconsistencies and confusion. We will therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u204	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of the Christian Democrats, Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u205	Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the New Slovenia Group we will support the bill. For two reasons. For the first time, because the bill does not bring, ladies and gentlemen, anything bad, but much good. For once our hymn is complete, we, after all, strengthen our national consciousness, strengthen our patriotism, which is certainly lacking in the Slovenian people and also in this Parliament. We are not talking about any nationalism in New Slovenia, we are talking about patriotism. A nation that has enough patriotism within it is a nation that can also yearn for development, success, a good economy, a standing economy. Finally, we also agree with that article on the prohibition of the glorification of totalitarian symbols. I had already said in the position of the group of Members: on one side of the hill they measured against the communists, on the other side with the fascists; not least, they are all the same! And then where's the problem that we don't end up condemning these same guys once in a while? This is why New Slovenia will support the proposal of the law. I stress, it is also time for us to begin to strengthen our national consciousness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u206	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors of the Alliance, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u207	Today we have listened to a lot of stupidity mainly because if it were really something in the sense of strengthening patriotism and national consciousness, especially in the fact that the proponents have always claimed that it was not about changing the coat of arms, not about changing the flag, not about changing the lyrics of the anthem, then I don't know why you're proposing changes. For he who has not been conscious of the national consciousness to this day — what you say — and has been patriotic enough, then will not be after these changes. It is certain, however, that this proposal you have made does not bring patriotism, but rather a greater division in society and, last but not least, confusion and misunderstanding. I suggest that you go to the Constitutional Court, if you say it is not constitutional, you are already used to this act, and you will probably get some change there. Because if it is unconstitutional, then surely this Constitutional Court knows. But we're not experimenting here. Last but not least, in your government, the minister has already determined by regulation where and how and in what way the flags should hang, and I don't know why they should change it by law. The law is good, the current one that determines how these things are regulated, and I believe that all Slovenes and Slovenians know how to sing an anthem and imagine that Slovenians would have stood for ten minutes for an anthem. Please, let's not smile! Of course, we will not support such a proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u208	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SD Group, Mrs Andreja Katič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u209	Thank you. Social Democrats The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the coat of arms, flag and anthem of the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovenian National flag, which has been re- tabled by Members of the Parliament of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, will not be supported. As has already been said, Slovenians have their own anthem, with which we have identified ourselves, most citizens and citizens can seal it, can declare it, and this is important for the awareness of the country's membership and there are no valid reasons for changing the anthem. However, as regards the proposed new Article 24 on the prohibition of the use of symbols. Partizan movement was a pilot movement and was a unique event in the history and history of European nations and the existence of the Slovenian Partisan movement is something that should inspire us with pride and respect and also a red star. And one more thing, it is necessary to condemn the embezzlement of historical facts that took place in Kočevska River last month, when the red stars that they wore in 1990 were wiped out on the hats of the soldiers of the Territorial Defence. And once again, the Social Democrats do not agree to the fabrication of historical facts, so we will not support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u210	We are done with this explanation of vote and we can vote. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present. The vote was 18, and the vote was 54. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 54.]] I note that the assembly has not adopted the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure on the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Media. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Media is appropriate for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u211	Dear President, thank you for your word! We will support the proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party, because we assess that the proposed law is suitable for further consideration. This law has been tabled solely to conclude that in the last period quotas have been misused in the Media Act itself and that Slovenian music is mostly revolving during the nighttime. The changes we are proposing allow for greater emphasis on Slovenian words, Slovenian entities, Slovenian authors and, consequently, the creation of new jobs. We are aware that in certain parts this law would improve further, and we expect it to be done in another or third reading. Throughout today's debate, we have come to the conclusion that this proposal is unlikely to receive greater support in the coalition. As I have pointed out in the debate itself, I am particularly surprised by the fact that the coalition put itself primarily on the side would say media moguls, but not by a single word have you supported the demands of the issue, which is highlighted mainly by Slovenian authors. If we look at the popularity of Slovenian music in 2005 and 2013, we realize that these percentages have actually turned. If there is, we can probably talk about selling or stealing an identity here.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u212	Thank you. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Group Dr Dragan Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u213	Mr President, thank you for the floor. In the SMC News Group, we will not support the Media Act. The law is prepared poorly, non-systematicly, it only introduces partial solutions based on a misleading assumption that greater quantity will also bring better quality. Nor is it legally harmonised on the definition of what audiovisual works are, with the rest of the legislation in force. In particular, it is worth mentioning that it comes from misleading sources that the law does not have any financial implications, which is, of course, unrealistic. Only the adoption of this novel would mean 20 million additional funds from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia or RTV Slovenia should obtain these 20 million. With regard to the issue itself, however, we agree with the opposition that the Media Law should be amended, but in the manner envisaged in the National Programme for Culture. This is said, on the basis of the media strategy adopted, and in this sense we expect the Ministry of Culture to work actively on this strategy as soon as possible, which will, of course, also lead to the adoption of a law setting out clearly what is of public interest in the field of the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u214	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Alliance's Group, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u215	We will not, of course, support this proposal for a simple reason, because the applicant has focused too much on just one segment, but this is how to increase the share of Slovenian music, but he has not dealt with all the consequences and analyses that would bring material harm, given that the matter is not entirely proposed with the other solutions. Although I miss this topic in particular, the fact that the Government or the Ministry of Culture is not more active and explained other aspects and aspects, but this is already another segment, but what bothered me most about the applicants in fact is the game of numbers. Only the numbers I understand and when I review the IPF scale of 500 of the most played music, I can see that this percentage is increasing from 2010 to 2013. If in 2010 there were 27%, in 2011 out of 500 the most received were 32% Slovenian, 2012 31% and 2013 42.2%. Math is very simple. If in one night 900 Slovenian songs, which would only roll once, and 10 foreign songs that would spin 10 times, would say one 10 times, and then come to the calculation that we could practically get to the fact that even foreign music is 100%. However, I will be very happy if we stop talking about how we are going to be creating some patriotism here again, because I am sure that in other countries, where today the debaters and the proponents have also referred, if you look at the real data and talk about them out loud, you will see that the trend has turned to their countereffects what they really wanted. The Media Act needs to be changed, and I agree with the proponents, but on the whole system, which you know very well, because you have already been the authors of this and you know the consequences of what happened to that proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u216	I see there's no more explanation for the voice. Yes, it is. So if the explanation is in your own name, please sign in. Explanation of the vote in his own name, Mr Peter Wilphan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u217	Thank you for your word. The most frequently mentioned case of national music is French. We heard a lot about this today, too, colleague Pogačnik spoke about it in his closing speech. In France, 40% of the quotas are set, and for some forms of radio up to 60%. According to the French Music Union, these quotas do not achieve the desired results. Statistics for the period 2001-2010 show that the number of albums released has decreased by 64 % in 10 years. In the same period, investment in French music-related marketing promotion decreased by 59%. The following data and indicator of the negative impact of quotas are statistics on French music on radio stations from 2001 to 2010, as the number of newly released funds, singles, has decreased by 46 % on radio stations. Although 42.8 % of French music was broadcast at French radio stations in the first half of 2010, the French Fund’s share was only 18 %. If I simplify, 18% of the performers and songs represented 42.8%, while the other 58% of the programme represented a pool of 72% of foreign songs. Despite the quotas, therefore, the most played song and performer in the first half of 2010, for example, they were not French, but they were the most broadcasters of foreign funds and foreign operators. The 2008 list of broadcasts of the Fund at French radio stations shows that, despite the quotas, only one French composition was able to be included in the first 10. Therefore, I do not think that such a partial approach is good and, of course, I will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u218	Explanation of the vote in its name mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u219	Mr President, thank you for saying so. I will personally support the proposal for several reasons. I think that this issue of the Media Law in Slovenia is serious and that changes are urgently needed. Once again, I will point out that, above all, I was disappointed by the debate of the members of the coalition, because they have first and foremost identified why this marriage is bad, but not to seek a solution. Comrade Möderndorfer, we were talking about the quota of 200 of the most listening, you came with a figure of 500. I think there's a significant difference. We would probably understand better if I said, say, among the first 20 basketball players in Slovenia there are 10 foreigners with the biggest minute, and I would defend, say, among the 200 Slovenians have the biggest minute. I think this is also going on in some way to abuse, but the fact is, the obedience and popularity of Slovenian music is falling. It is also likely to fall because the media has a greater interest in turning foreign, global, multimedia music.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u220	I think we've exhausted our explanations of vote, so we can vote. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 48. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 48.]] I note that the National Assembly has not adopted the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the interrupted 1st item of the agenda – Questions of Members and Members. A review of the draft conclusions of Members and Members for the debate on the replies of the President of the Government, ministers and ministers has been published on the e-club. In line with Mrs Ludmila Novak's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question of the mission of Mr Ludmila Novak in connection with the privatisation of state-owned enterprises. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats, Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u221	I have asked a question regarding the privatisation of state-owned enterprises to Mr President of the Government. I am not satisfied with the answer, but of course I am not satisfied with the situation in this area in Slovenia. In Novi Slovenija, we want to find responsible owners, either Slovenian or foreign owners, who are able to invest and develop businesses. We know, however, that it is these state-owned companies that are also involved in various disputes within coalitions, that governments are falling apart, that some are also taking refuge in the background, and so on, that administrations, supervisory committees are changing, and no one is responsible for anything. I think we also need a broader debate on what it means to be privately owned and what it means to be public-owned. I do not think we are aware of this in the field of education, not in the field of health and not in the field of economics. For this reason, I propose that we hold a debate on this.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u222	We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 50. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Mark Pogačnik will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question of mags. Mark Pogačnik regarding privatisation procedures and the management of state property. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u223	Mr President, thank you for saying so. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we assess that it is necessary to hold a public debate, because the President of the Government has not replied to most of the questions or has given flat-rate answers. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are concerned that ad hoc privatisation is being carried out in Slovenia and that it is essential to adopt the strategy as soon as possible and to set up a supervisory board in the Slovenian State Holding. No reply was given to the question of when the Supervisory Board will be appointed in the Slovenian State Holding. However, mixed replies were also given by the Prime Minister of the Government, as we are getting the feeling that the President of the Government is speaking in public, and in fact his coalition partners or Members and Members of this National Assembly are voting in a different way than the Prime Minister of the Government considers privatisation. We estimate that there is an urgent need for public debate, because both citizens and all potential investors need to be made clear once and for all what Slovenia expects in this area, what further privatisation processes will be like, in particular, what will happen to companies already in the privatisation phase.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u224	We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 50. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mrs Eva Irgl, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of the Interior of Magi. The village of Györkös Žnidar and the Minister of Justice mag. Goran Klemenčič refers to Mrs Eva Irgl's question on the activities of law enforcement and detection bodies related to the illegal activity of the former State Security Service. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group Mrs Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u225	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Yesterday, I asked the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice a question about the killings carried out by the former State Security Service, even before the Udja, if we go even further into the past, as well as the Ozna. It is true that such a crime is now obsolete under the Code of Penalties, which was also referred to by Silva Gorenc, when the Austrian prosecution, in particular in Salzburg, demanded that he be heard in Slovenia or by his lawyers. However, we need to know that we have, or know, three types of actions under the current legislation and are related to this issue, which are not yet obsolete. I'm talking about crime against humanity, crime and genocide. In view of the fact that the killings of the former State Security Service have been carried out in support of the existing regime, given that it has so far been found that at least 70 murders have been proven so far by the State Security Service, and there have certainly been more, we can say that there has been a systematic murder, that there is a related red thread, which is crucial to justify something as a crime against humanity and that it has also been a systematic torture, which is also a prerequisite that we can justify it as a crime against humanity, which was finally confirmed yesterday by the Minister of Justice. But this crime is not obsolete under our legislation. That is why I have asked both ministers whether you intend to do anything in this direction in order to guide, in particular the police, in relation to these actions. The Minister replied that the police are working to ensure that the prosecution is the one who does not do its job, so I also suggested to the Minister that it would be good to allow, within the limits of its powers, an investigation in this direction to go towards crimes against humanity, which I have already justified. Given that this is an extremely important issue, it is an important topic when we talk about the inviolability of human life, it is high time to have a debate in this room that will let us know that we have settled matters from the past to put them in our place so that we can finally breathe as a nation full of lungs. Therefore, I ask you to vote in favour of this proposal. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u226	We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 50. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Tomaž Lisc, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petar Gasperšič, to Mr Tomaž Lisca's question on the rehabilitation of crossing facilities. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 50. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Ambassador Anja Bah Žibert, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of the Interior of Magi. The village of Györkös Žnidar and the Minister of Justice mag. Goran Klemenčič on Mrs Anje Bah Žibert's question about the threats posed by journalists. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u227	Your Honor! It would be irresponsible for threats to concern us simply because a massacre took place in Paris. That may be an additional reason, but he can't possibly be the only one. The reason we have to worry about this is that we face it more and more. Finally, this happened to reporters of the Reporter, the Democracy and the Journalist Finance, but unfortunately these are not the only cases. It is very important that the criteria for persecution do not come from where the threats come from or to whom they are intended, but that the criterion is one. It's a threat like that. Since this is still largely inconsistent and, above all, the criteria are not the same for all, in some way we can also get this in the answers of both ministers, I propose that we hold a public debate on this. For there is no argument to allow in the National Assembly that threats in our country are self-evident and permissive.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u228	We're voting. 71 Members and Members are present. The vote was 19 and against 50. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Franz Trcko, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Mrs Irena Majcen to the question of Mr Franc Trčko's question on housing policy of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present. There were 23 votes in favour and 45 votes in favour. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Ljub Žnidar, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšić, to Mr Ljub Žnidar's question on transport infrastructure. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group, Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u229	Thank you very much, Chairman. At the end of last year, the European Statistical Agency of Eurostat published information that Slovenia's construction works are at the lowest level among all European countries, which is the data from the end of November last year. In my opinion, there are two main reasons: the first is the unreasonable reduction of all the investment assets of the current government – I would say no more reduction, but the abolition of all investment funds mainly on projects of state importance. Another problem is in the preparation of new projects, and I am speaking here specifically, and I am thinking of putting into the space of the largest infrastructure projects of state importance. This is a lot of obstacles, as far as the legislation is concerned, are here in the field of agricultural legislation, environmental, nature protection and so on. We have an extremely poor practice here, as the largest projects are placed in a space of between eight and twelve years. Of course, this affects such expensive and slow preparation of these projects. Of course, the minister did not explain why this was the case or what the new measures would be. For this reason, I propose that it would be useful to hold a public debate and to gather in this debate all good suggestions, proposals which would also give certain answers to how to carry out spatial placement in a short time, as has been shown by the practice so far. I therefore propose that this proposal for a public debate be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u230	We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present. 20 votes for and 49 votes for. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Mahnič, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petar Gasperšič, to Mr Jana Mahnič's question on the state-of-the-art infrastructure situation. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group, Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u231	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Please support the request for a debate. I asked the Minister about the poor state of the state road network. Although the Minister has frankly told me that there is not much to expect in the future or in terms of budgets in this area, I have asked him about a matter that I have not received an answer to. This is a failed measure from the time of the Pahor government, when annual vehicle and vehicle taxes can be passed on to the railway infrastructure, for example, the Directorate receives only €106 million for 2015, while all taxes for those driving cars are € 172 million. So from this title, we lose more than 67 million euros from road infrastructure, so that we can put these funds into rail infrastructure. I am not saying that it is not necessary to restore the railway infrastructure which has been obsolete and which we have left at the expense of the highway in the past, because we had companies, Slovenians who could build motorways and that was a priority, but I believe that some guidelines should be drawn up to what extent certain matters will be financed. As a problem of local importance, I highlighted the road to Sorico in my place in the Selska Valley, three kilometres of road waiting for the case since 2005. Each Minister of Infrastructure promises to do so, but the Directorate has recently announced that, with such resources and in such a state, it will not be able to maintain this road for long. The first stage took place or reconstruction of the first phase of 800 meters in 2005, the second stage of the same 800 meters in 2007, the third stage of 0.9 kilometers in 2009, then Minister Omrzel made some sort of effort, started with the fourth stage, and then eventually extended. There is still a fifth stage and also a part of the fourth, more than 500 meters. It is so sad, given that it is quite remote places, which do not have such good road connections as some urban centers, that they have to wait ten years or probably not this year, that they have to wait ten years and more to get a road. After this, buses can no longer drive, and it is also dangerous for passenger cars. The road closed all the time, opened up, depending on the situation. There were promises made, and when I was upstairs, we can say that people are truly disappointed. It will be necessary to finally tell this country which roads are the priority. I believe there are many more. That's why I highlighted it because it's from my environment and it's been waiting ten years for three kilometers. I think that this is unrealistic and that people are rightly disappointed that the country obviously does not take them seriously and that they are left to themselves. I'm asking for your support.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u232	We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 48. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 48.]] It notes that the decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Vinko Gorenak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of the Interior, Mag. Vesne Györkös Žnidar to the question of Mr Vinko Gorenak concerning the personal vision of the Ministry of the Interior. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 52. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of Parliament, Mr Trček, the assembly will decide in the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc to the question of emergency medical care. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present. There were 23 votes in favour and 45 votes in favour. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal by Mr Mahnič, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of the Interior, Mag. Vesne Györkös Žnidar on the question of Mr Jana Mahnič on action against a participant in armed conflicts outside the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group, Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u233	Thank you for your word, President. The SDS Group will support this proposal for discussion. But I can only say this, I remember when we talked here on December 19th 2014 about a proposal for a new Penal Code on foreign terrorist fighters submitted by the Slovenian Democratic Party for treatment, and when we in the Slovenian Democratic Party warned about what would happen throughout Europe because of the fighters from Europe who are participating in the fights in the Islamic country, when we come back, some of you were amazed to see, some of us did not take us seriously. 14 days later, a terrorist attack took place in France. European Union countries are rapidly amending legislation, only Slovenia is lagging behind. I asked the Minister a simple question: Does the Slovenian police have a basis for investigating these matters, or can it stop foreign citizens crossing Slovenia, or can it pursue on the proposal of the prosecutor, the prosecutions of those who return from the Islamic State? Now, I may be a little sharp, but I'll back up the evidence right now. I had a press conference on Friday. I watched an Epilog on POP TV. It was said that the Minister did not know that she was a member of the National Security Council, and as arrogant as the Minister attacked me yesterday, she asked me for two minutes, from where can I say that I request a debate, Mr President, because the Minister of the Interior is incompetent. Now I'm going to read to you, "After that, did I immediately write to the responsible editor, Epilog Susani Lover, in case there was an accident in the show, not the truth? And what did the lady write me? Her arguments why she did not want to come to Epilog on POP TV were that she was not competent enough for this debate and that she was not a member of the Council. That was said in a conversation with Juret Brack. This is public on my twitter you can look at. You have an interior minister who is not surprised enough to go on POP TV on the Epilog show – one competent person you have left sitting in a paper that knows this matter – and then let me expect this lady to answer my question. This is why more, this is why we need to have a debate first about what is going on here, whether the police have powers or not – I hope someone else will come to answer this, because the minister herself said she was not competent for this. Then, obviously, let's have another debate on the work of the Minister of the Interior. I am pleased that the lady has at least admitted this, because after what I have heard today from the editor of Epilog, I really care about the safety of citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u234	We're voting. 71 Members and Members are present. 20 votes and 50 votes. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Miha Kordiš, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate in the next meeting on the response of Mr Jank Vebar, Minister of Defence, to the question of Mr Miha Kordiš, on the withdrawal of the Slovenian Armed Forces from Kosovo. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group United Left Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u235	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll try to be brief. A recent anniversary of 15 years has passed since our first units were in Kosovo. We have been in Kosovo for 15 years, and we think in the United Left that we need to talk about our presence there. I have already mentioned twice that this presence lasts 15 years, and either we do something wrong or we don't have anything to look for there. This seems to us to be an important enough issue to which all parliamentary groups should be defined, and this can only be done appropriately by placing this point on a certain agenda and having a serious debate. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-27-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u236	We're voting. 69 Members and Members are present. It's five for the vote and 52 for the vote. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 4th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
