ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the 11th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič, mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko from 13:00 on, Mrs Jelka Godec, Mr Jožef Horvat from 15:00 on and Mr Tomaž Lisec. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 24. On the agenda, it's for the Department of Interior's defence interpretation of the work and the responsibility of the Department of Internal Affairs, Mag. SPEECH GYÖRKÖS ZNIDAR. The Interpellation was tabled by a group of 21 Members and Members with Mr Jozet Tanke, the first to be signed. I give the floor to Mrs Anji Bah Žibert's representative for an explanation of the interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u2	Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Honourable Council of Ministers, Madam Minister Mag. Vesna GyörkösŽnidar with team, colleagues and fellow Members; dear citizens and citizens! Interpellation of the work and responsibility of each minister is not only an important instrument of parliamentary control over the work of the executive branch. Today, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, we will discuss the responsibility and functioning of the Minister of the Interior of Mag. The village of GyörkösŽnidar. The legal regime of a modern, democratically regulated state does not serve only its own organisation, but it is also the most important factor in limiting its power to citizens and the state as such. And that's what this is all about. It is the duty of all of us to protect the rule of law, regardless of our clientele, and to act extremely responsibly when it comes to its operation, safety and reputation. This is what citizens rightly expect from us. By interpellation, we want to protect the country and its inhabitants from the further absurd, wrong and harmful decisions of the Minister of the Interior, as well as the Minister's Institute. By allowing such a policy to continue, we would be responsible for decisions that could have a fatal impact on our country and on all who reside in it. As a result of the growing refugee problem, as the new and greater waves of refugees are still coming, today's debate is all the more necessary. We are talking about a sector that citizens should trust most at this point. At this crucial time, the Ministry of the Interior should be run with competence, organisation, maximum efficiency, full sensitivity and legality. If the President of the Government had acted responsibly and responded as he did in the case of Minister Webra, we would have been spared a number of wrong and harmful decisions. Events whose dissension depends on the effective work of the Minister would end without complications. We can assume that this time the President of the Government acted solely on the basis of party affiliation and the Minister of his SMC did not wish to replace. Thus, the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, is at least as responsible as the Minister herself. It is also true that it was the appointment of a magician. Vesne Györkös Žnidar as Minister of Home Affairs for many complete surprises; so much more so because many have seen Dr Bojan Dobovška in this place. Apparently, the decision of the Prime Minister of the Government of Dr. Mir Cerar was based on a friendly relationship and not on the competence of the candidate. Now let's leave this; the fact that Dr. Bojan Dobovšek left the SMC and recently its sending group speaks only for himself. At the inauguration of the minister, she made a lot of promises. It must be acknowledged that there is nothing here that has deviated from its ministerial colleagues and colleagues. One year after her appointment, her results show that concerns and concerns were more than justified. The Ministry is operating without a proper strategy and completely fair. To facilitate understanding of the reasons for the urgency of this interpretation, allow me to briefly explain some of the actions of the Minister which have escalated to the point where we were forced to act in the Slovenian Democratic Party. There is no action after the intervention has been made, but it just adds to the fact that at the top of the ministry, changes are more than necessary — and that, respected, without delay. It's sad that only the secretary can't see it on her own. To begin with, let me remind you of the qualities that she attributed to herself at the presentation as a candidate for Minister of the Interior very confidently. She said she had all the necessary knowledge, many experiences and she was decorated with leadership and organizational skills. Special care is intended to improve the situation in the Slovenian Police. Thus, all of us, citizens and especially the police, expected its immediate activation in terms of concrete proposals to improve the situation. And what was her first priority after her appointment? It has devoted its attention to personal protection and the enforcement of new standards in this area. Security officials who professionally performed their duties with all former Home Affairs Ministers were simply not appropriate to the Minister. Most of them have done this work since 2004, when the ministers of Mate, Kresalov, Zalar, Gorenak and Virant were close. And the secretary changed everything. We ask ourselves justifiably, why?Oh, my God! Let me remind you that the Ministry's priorities included strengthening people's confidence in the functioning of the police. Everything would be nice and right and even commendable if she did not show that she did not trust them alone. Think of what you would read on the cover of a newspaper if you could afford such a thing, for example, by Minister Gorenak or Mate. I suppose I'd be sitting in an interpeeling chair by now. But let's leave it. It's just an obvious example of her inconsistence. We witnessed the greater fiasco of the Minister when armed criminals invaded the premises of the National Assembly and the premises of the Prime Minister, Dr. Mir Cerar. It's supposed to be an investigation into former Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek. The event also caused a sharp reaction in the police ranks, as well as dissatisfaction and concerns expressed by the President of the Government. The Head of the SD Matjaž Han Group publicly expressed doubts about the Minister's explanations that she did not know what was going on in the country at the time – a very worrying statement by the Minister, whose duty is also to exercise control in all areas of police work. The fact that the matter was not innocent suggests that even coalition-type calls to replace the Minister were heard. Notwithstanding the fact that, in the end, due to the political interests of the matter, the event was a clear proof of the confusion and non-controlling of the ministerial position. The incident, which the Minister has somehow afforded to all of us in the Haradinaj case of June, was merely the continuation of the reckless performance of the post, for which the Minister is, objectively and in part, also subjectively responsible. The Minister's conduct required responsible and immediate action, and an interpretation of her work and responsibility was put in place. Signatories from the Slovenian Democratic Party have also submitted an interpretation to resolve the mags. The village of Györkös Žnidar, acting as Minister of the Interior, prevented further harmful acts and restored confidence in the institution of the Interior Minister. In doing so, we were led by responsibility and awareness that challenging challenges for ministries are yet to come and that such mistakes cannot simply be afforded. I stress that we are talking about ensuring the security of citizens and citizens and of all those in Slovenia. The fact that this is an extremely controversial and problematic event also testifies to the fact that the Minister has taken a month to answer her question. Only for comparison – only three to four days was the reply prepared by the then Minister of the Interior for Interpellation, a colleague of Gorenak. The main arguments in the interpretation are presented systematically and in detail, so allow me to present only the key findings, which the Minister has failed to reject in a few pages in a long response. On the basis of the well-known and repeated facts, we believe that the Minister of the Interior is a mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar, for the first time, is objectively responsible for violating Article 2 of the Treaty between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Serbia on extradition. In violation of that provision, the Slovenian police illegally seized the freedom and diplomatic passport of former Kosovo Prime Minister Ramush Haradinaj. Secondly, it is objectively responsible for the suspension of the obligation to exercise control over the implementation of the Law on State Border Control, subject to the provisions of Articles 29 and 42 of the United Nations Convention on Special Missions. In violation of those provisions, the Slovenian police seized a diplomatic passport from former Kosovo Prime Minister Ramush Haradinaj in exercising State border control and reached into his personality in carrying out a diplomatic mission. Thirdly, the Minister is objectively responsible for reducing the reputation of the Republic of Slovenia in the international public and for the political and economic consequences arising from the unlawful deprivation of liberty and the restriction of the movement of Ramushu Haradinaj; for failing to respect and not to know the international treaties in the implementation of the unjustified extradition procedure of Ramush Haradinaj. Fourthly, it is also objectively responsible for the political damage caused in its relations with the Republic of Kosovo. And fifthly, the Minister is also objectively responsible for the economic and political damage caused to Slovenian companies operating with the companies of the Republic of Kosovo; and is responsible for endangering the safety of citizens located in the territory of the Republic of Kosovo. Due to the timing of the incident, which in no way diminishes its dimension, consequences and responsibilities, I will present some essential facts further to facilitate the enlightenment of the events at that time. On 17 June 2015, Slovenian police at Jožet Pučnik Airport illegally received the former Kosovo Prime Minister and the President of the Union for the Future of Kosovo, Ramush Haradinaj, and took away his passport. He was deprived of his liberty on the basis of the 2004 Serbian tyranny and related to war crimes in connection with Kosovo’s conflicts between 1998 and 1999. It should be pointed out that the State which issued the warrant does not exist at all anymore. In this case, it was not even relevant that the International Court of War Crimes in the territory of the former Yugoslavia in The Hague of Haradinaj had already released all war crimes charges during the conflict in Kosovo, that is, three years ago. It should also be pointed out that Ramush Haradinaj is a carrier of a diplomatic passport and that the said tyrant has already been withdrawn in all other countries and has not been detained or deprived of his liberty in any other country, even though he has crossed a number of borders at that time. Two days after receipt, i.e. on 19 June 2015, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs received a diplomatic note in which the Embassy of the Republic of Kosovo expressed its extreme concern and informed him that Haradinaj was returning from the territory of Slovenia from a special diplomatic mission abroad. At the same time, the Embassy of Kosovo reminded the Republic of Slovenia that it is necessary to provide the Haradinaj with a free transition in accordance with the provisions of Articles 29 and 42 of the United Nations Convention on Special Missions, which has been in force since 1969. On 18 June 2015, the Kosovo Assembly, at the request of the Alliance for the Future of Kosovo, gathered at an extraordinary meeting and adopted a resolution condemning the behaviour of the Republic of Slovenia unanimously, with respect, and calling on its government and the President of Kosovo to ask the Slovenian authorities to return the diplomatic passport unconditionally and quickly to Haradinaj and allow him to return to Kosovo. The fact that the procedure was not properly and lawfully followed also suggests that, on the basis of a diplomatic note received by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs gave the opinion that the request of the Kosovo side was justified and that Ramushu Haradinaj would return a diplomatic passport and allow him to leave the country. That's what happened. I'm asking the Minister here how is it possible that Haradinaj made 50 trips around the world and was not arrested anywhere?Oh, my God! Tell us who did it if there was no police error; and who is responsible for such conduct. If everything was really nice and right, as the Minister wishes to show, how did the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the President of the Government have to be involved in solving the case? Your Honor, Minister of the Interior, Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar is objectively responsible for the suspension of the obligation to exercise control over the implementation of the State Border Control Act, subject to the provisions of Article 29 and Article 42 of the United Nations Convention on Special Missions. In that case, the Minister responsible for Home Affairs’ duty to direct the police in cases of border control and guidance for the functioning of the police has been waived in cases of implementation of the State Border Control Act, taking into account the provisions of the United Nations Convention on Special Missions. In accordance with Article 8 of the Law on State Border Control, the Minister responsible for Home Affairs shall prescribe a way of carrying out border control. In that case, the provisions of Article 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Law on State Border Control, having regard to the provisions of Article 29 and Article 42 of the United Nations Convention on Special Missions, which provide that representatives of the State designated on specific missions and members of its diplomatic staff shall enjoy personal inviolability. The two-day complication caused the Republic of Slovenia to fall in respect of the functioning of the rule of law and damaged good relations with the Republic of Kosovo, which were exemplary until now. On the same day that Haradinaj was deprived of his liberty in the Republic of Slovenia, protestors gathered before the Slovenian Embassy in Pristina and the Alliance for the Future of Kosovo political party launched a boycott campaign of Slovenian products in Kosovo. Aleksandar Vukic, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, also commented on Haradinaj's illegal deprivation of liberty in the Republic of Slovenia, saying that something really strange was going on. He added that Haradinaj has travelled with the same diplomatic passport for the 50th time and that Serbia has nothing to do with it. I quote: "This indictment dates back to 2004, this is the former country called Serbia and Montenegro." Negative reactions have also taken place in the wider international public. The damage was also caused by economic cooperation between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Kosovo. It is ironic that just a month earlier, Prime Minister Miro Cerar and Foreign Minister Karl Erjavec met with the Foreign Minister of the Republic of Kosovo. And you know what happened then – an agreement on better economic cooperation was signed. And what is most worrying about all this – the security of our citizens who were in the territory of the Republic of Kosovo has been threatened. In order to cover up the consequences of the incident as much as possible, we practically knew nothing about it. The extremely serious consequences are reported that the event has had a negative impact on the relationship between the local population of Kosovo and Slovenia as well as the Slovenian army. Members operating under KFOR, who are constantly in contact with the local population because of the nature of their work, have been given a negative response and an extreme deterioration of relations, which until then were very friendly. That their safety has been seriously compromised, the evidence also confirms – the order of the Slovenian KFOR contingent commander, which is 17. 6. 2015 recalled all our members from the field. This decision was also supported by the KFOR Operation Commander. Your Honor! In the situation that prevails in Slovenia and around us due to the increasing refugee problem, the state needs a sovereign person in the post of Minister of the Interior who will be able to carry out all tasks and responsibilities in accordance with the law. I wonder what kind of chaos would have arisen if the Ministry still acted to the extent that before the amendment of the Government Act and under the authority of the Minister of State would still be subject to public administration. At the time of the minister's appointment, there was virtually no place to go. Her absence at the beginning of the mandate was then attributed to her adaptation, which was longer than her predecessors. However, it became alarming when her anaemic ministry continued even when a problem broke out. Therefore, we are not surprised by the many speculations and questions of the public, who, if any, runs this ministry. This question is still relevant in today's situation in the country when citizens expect specific answers. The task of the Minister is to take the lead in such moments with his authority, connectivity and with the greatest degree of understanding of subordinates and citizens, who are all at risk in their own way. The Minister's public appearance a few days ago, where she dealt uncompromisingly with the police unions, who had pointed out the critical and human situation in performing difficult tasks during the refugee wave, was unacceptable, offensive and reflected the Minister's inability to act in crisis situations. Colleagues and colleagues, Minister of the Interior Mag. Vesna GyörkösŽnidar bears full objective responsibility for the incident in the event of Ramush Haradinaj's unlawful detention. As a result of all of this, she has lost all credibility and confidence, which is essential for the successful performance of the ministerial function. We therefore call on all Members and Members of Parliament to act responsibly and to avoid any further harmful behaviour of the Magi, regardless of whether they act in the coalition or in the opposition. In the village of Györkös Žnidar, let us discharge the duties of Minister of the Interior. Colleagues and colleagues, this time it's about the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u3	The reply of the Minister of the Interior, Mag. You received the village of Györkös Žnidar for interpretation by letter 24. Seven. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Now, at the same time, I give the government my first word to the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u4	Mr President, honourable Members of the Parliament and Members of the National Assembly! Today, at the proposal of the Group of Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank, you are considering the interpretation of the work and responsibility of the Minister of the Interior of Mag. The village of Györkös Žnidar, where the statements of Members and Members refer to the conduct of the police when carrying out border control and verification in the case of former Kosovo Prime Minister Ramush Haradinaj. In its written reply, the Minister described the circumstances in detail and replied with arguments to any interpretation statement. She explained that the police had done their tasks autonomously, legally and professionally in this case. I would like to point out immediately that the Minister has my full support, as she did at the time I invited her to the government. A good year ago, as a candidate for the Minister of the Interior, she pointed out before the Home Committee of the National Assembly that the police must be fully depoliticized and the Minister must not interfere with the autonomy of the police. The success of police work is measured at the level of social security, but must not be achieved at the expense of violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms. The Minister has always followed this principle, since her task is not to lead the police; but in accordance with the law, she directs and supervises her work. In a specific case, as the Minister explained in response to the interpretation, the police carried out regular border controls at Jožet Pučnik Airport. Kosovo citizen Ramush Haradinaj proved to be a valid diplomatic passport of the Republic of Kosovo. Verification of the travel document through the relevant bases has shown that a valid international search has been declared against Mr Haradinaj. On this basis, the police acted legally and properly. An important fact is that Mr Haradinaj did not invoke diplomatic immunity during the police procedure, and we also did not have any prior announcement on the transit of the special diplomatic mission of Kosovo, which would require the privileges and immunity of the diplomat for Mr Haradinaj on the way. In general, let me add that all the incriminating statements of the applicant in the interpretation are entirely without a real basis or are unrealistic. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are witnessing extremely increased migratory flows on the so-called Balkan route; therefore, allow me to view the time in which we are dealing with this interpretation as inappropriate. The Ministry of the Interior and the Slovenian police in particular bear the main burden of resolving the migration crisis these days. The success of the Slovenian police in facing this difficult challenge is also recognised in the international space. In view of the predictions of the continuation of the pressure from migrants, I would also expect positive assessments and praise from today's panellists. Moreover, in this light and in the spirit of state-of-the-art, I would expect a reflection from the motioners on the withdrawal or at least the submission of today's debate. I wish that the course of this debate would not come across a negative response to those who enjoy the trust of our citizens, as well as migrants and the international community. I'm sure Minister Mag will. Vesna Györkös Žnidar is doing his job competently and therefore has my full trust; today and in the future in the face of new challenges. In the light of all these facts, I regret that the proponents have not yet made use of the legally available option and have withdrawn the interpretation of the Minister of the Interior. You can still do this, your well-respected proponents. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u5	Now I give my word to the Minister of Mags. Vesni Györkös Žnidar for explanation of the written reply to the interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u6	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable President of the Government, Honourable Members of Parliament, Honourable Members of Parliament! On 24 June of this year, SDS Members filed an interview against me regarding the police procedure with former Kosovo Prime Minister Ramush Haradinaj, now head of the opposition Alliance for the Future of Kosovo. The general statement of the interpolation signatories is that, as Minister of the Interior, I am responsible: for violating the Treaty between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Serbia on Extradition, because Ramush Haradinaj has unlawfully taken away freedom and diplomatic passports; for reducing the reputation of the Republic of Slovenia in the international public, for political and economic consequences, for non-compliance with and ignorance of international treaties in the implementation of the extradition procedure, for political damage to Kosovo and for economic damage to Slovenian companies operating with Kosovo, and for abandoning the duty to exercise control over the implementation of the State Border Control Act. I completely and entirely reject the views of the applicants, because they are based on a misunderstanding of the foundations of state law or on an argument which is in complete contradiction with the key national concept; this is a solid system of national security, which is the essential building block of our sovereignty, independence and smooth functioning of the Republic of Slovenia. The fundamental problem that I must first point out in defence is that the interpolation proponents did not define at all the essential element on the basis of which they could today even discuss my responsibility – objective or subjective. It is insufferable that the interpretation in question is based on the assertion of false facts, abstract claims and that it does not define what a breach of legislation is, error, irregularity, abuse or abuse of powers either on my part or on the part of any of my subjects. The only thing that reflects this interpretation is the severe inexplicability and gross misunderstanding of international conventions, legal concepts and even the basis for the functioning of the police; which is, for all of us, quite tragic and also shameful, because you, respected proponents and proponents, are an important part of the legislative branch of power. Such interpolation is actually being attempted today by pouring into the refugee problem and mixing the management of the department with communication with the public. I believe that such a way of investing incomplete interpretations seriously interferes with the autonomy of the Minister of the Interior and is also a signal to the internal and international public that the political culture of the interpellation proponents is not fully synchronized with the welfare of the State and is also contrary to the Constitution. Since it is more than obvious from the mere perceptions of interpolation that the applicants do not know the basics, in order to better understand the justification for the answer, which is intertwined in fact and in legal terms, I will first briefly summarise the essential circumstances. According to a police report, Ramush Haradinaj arrived at the exit border control of Jožet Pučnik Airport for the purpose of transit to Pristina 17. 6. and proved to be in force in border control by means of a diplomatic passport issued by the Republic of Kosovo in which the Schengen tourist visa in force, visa C, was valid for two years from 29 December 2014 to 28. 12. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. When a police officer introduced a passport into the reader in a process of thorough border control according to Schengen standards, the data in the passport and the holder were verified via the national database, the Schengen SIS II information system and the Interpol database. In Interpol's database, a police officer found that a valid international search had been recorded against Ramush Haradinaj, a so-called red notice — Red Note issued by the National Central Bureau of Interpol Belgrade, Serbia, on the basis of a court order issued by the National Central Bureau of Interpol, with effect from 8. Ten. 2004 to 1. 1. 2049. The national central bureaus of Interpol in the Member States shall, on the basis of orders from national courts, list the international search for persons, international tyrants and issue the so-called Interpol Red Notices. At the same time, verification shall be carried out at the General Secretariat of Interpol to determine whether the invitation to tender is of a political, military, religious or racial nature. In such a case, the Interpol General Secretariat shall also delete the invitation to tender and inform all Member States thereof. When, at the following time, the National Central Bureau of Interpol in Slovenia and the Sirene Department of the Criminal Police Department of the General Police confirmed that the invitation to tender was valid, the Slovenian police seized freedom from Ramush Haradinaj at 2 p.m. and immediately orally and in writing in the language he understood taught him the rights and reasons for the seizure of liberty. At the time of his withdrawal, he also requested information from the diplomatic and consular representation, which was also possible for him. The investigation judge of the Kranj District Court was also informed of the procedure and validity of the international Interpol tyranny, who ordered that that person be brought on the same day at 6 p.m. to the Court of Justice in Kranj, where he was also immediately brought and handed over to a further investigation judge, who then seized the passport. At the time of the arrest against Haradinaj, no coercive measures were used and the police carried out their task with regard to the international criminal offence in force, as provided for in the Criminal Procedure Act. Since, in the event of a finding that a person being sought in a police proceeding under the international law of Interpol must be brought by the police on the basis of Article 552 of the Criminal Procedure Act without delay to a hearing with an investigating judge from a competent court. Only the judicial authority of the Republic of Slovenia can decide on the existence of the search in our country and the subsequent decisions of the State. I would like to point out that Ramush Haradinaj did not refer to diplomatic immunity during the police procedure, nor did the Slovenian police have any announcement on the transit of Kosovo's special diplomatic mission. Ramush Haradinaj, in addition to the diplomatic passport in which he had a tourist visa, did not submit any document demonstrating a special status; therefore, the police did not have the right to enjoy the privileges and immunity of a diplomat. 19. 6. The Embassy of the Republic of Kosovo sent a diplomatic note to our Ministry of Foreign Affairs expressing its dissatisfaction with the procedures against Haradinaj and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at the same time informed the Ministry that it had returned from a special diplomatic mission abroad. After receiving a letter from the Ministry of Justice and a diplomatic note, the Ministry immediately referred this to the Court of Justice, and the Court then ruled that Ramushu Haradinaj would return the passport. In its decision, the Court referred to the diplomatic note received, which states that Ramush Haradinaj was returning from a special mission abroad to the territory of the Republic of Slovenia; and, inter alia, stated that the Court finds the same thing as I have already said today, I quote, "that it is a matter of new statements which first appeared in the proceedings, since the requested person, when being heard, did not state this". In order to clarify the circumstances described above, the deprivation of liberty of Ramushu Haradinaj must be clarified that the Slovenian police have very limited powers in the course of the execution of international acts of torture, since the order for the invitation to tender and its implementation are in the exclusive jurisdiction of the judiciary; therefore, the police have no choice. The decision whether to carry out any activity relating to the invitation to tender or whether extradition will take place in the final stages is entirely in the discretion of the justice of each country. Such a decision cannot be taken by a police officer; it must be decided by the judicial authorities or by a court. Following the submission of the relevant evidence, the judicial authorities or the court have also taken a decision. As already noted in the introduction, the interpretation makes it completely wrong to claim that Ramush Haradinaj was unlawfully deprived of his liberty. The police did the right thing in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Act, and the police didn't take his passport at all because the court did. Interpellation contains completely wrong facts. The police, whose primary task is to ensure security for our citizens and citizens, have done their work lawfully and professionally when they have brought the person under the current international search call to the decision of the competent judicial authorities. That's what the Law of Criminal Procedure imposes on the police. But given what has been happening in Slovenian politics in recent years, I am not surprised that the police have already acted in accordance with the law according to your logic. Dearly-respected proponents, distinguished proponents! If you believe that a border policeman who is obliged to exercise control under strict Schengen standards, or I, as Minister of the Interior responsible for directing and controlling the legality of police work, should at the same time decide on whom the international Interpol tyranny will be realized, and because of the most serious crimes, you will also have to make a proposal to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia before today's debate, with a dictatorship that the Republic of Slovenia is a police state. But I doubt that citizens and citizens would agree, nor would your own electorate. That in such a case we are not talking at all about the fall of the international reputation of Slovenia and the political damage to our country in international organisations operating in the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms. The relationship between the Ministry of the Interior and the police is precisely set out in the Police Organisation and Work Act, and the same law also sets out procedures by which I can request reporting as a minister, or when and how I can direct and supervise the work of the police. In a specific case, I used all the legally built-in security guards that allow such verification and found that the police acted professionally and in accordance with the law. It is also totally wrong and therefore unacceptable for me to see violations of the extradition treaty as the execution of extradition of internationally wanted persons between countries is not the responsibility of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which did not violate any international treaty; the police acted in accordance with the Schengen Code and in accordance with the decisions of the court. In the event of the arrest of a wanted person at the external Schengen border, it is a standardised police procedure which must not be subject to derogations. Since there is also a former internal minister among the candidates for this interpretation, the fact that he is not familiar with the said one or that he does not know the content of the ministry's work, which he was sometimes responsible for, is more than worrying. I am also convinced that due to a proper and transparent procedure, Slovenia's reputation in a particular case has not been diminished. On the contrary, the confidence of Interpol members in the effective work of the Slovenian police and the fulfilment of Slovenia's commitments to the protection of the Schengen border, which is still important today, has been strengthened. The apparent political damage caused by Slovenia in its relations with Kosovo and economic enterprises operating with Kosovo is again abstract, unconcreteable and even absurd. The law on the duties and powers of the police, adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, established the basic tasks of the police. The individual police officer or the police as an authority shall carry out the tasks laid down in this law and other regulations in accordance with the law. The Ministry of the Interior or the police are not responsible for assessing the economic or political consequences. In any event, the police must comply with the rules and as Minister of the Interior, I must ensure that the police effectively carry out the statutory tasks. It is unfortunate, however, that today's interpolation forces us to start, through a political prism, assessing the legal deprivation of liberty and other police procedures. If this happens, I will be seriously concerned about the regime in which our country is re-laden. The biggest paradox is that you are exactly the proponents and proponents most loud when you counter hostility to undemocratic, totalitarian and non-transparent procedures. But let me get back to the readings from the interpolation. We probably agree that the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations and the Convention on Special Missions and also in accordance with the theory of international law state that only a valid diplomatic passport does not automatically recognise the individual's personal inviolability. In particular, it should be pointed out that Ramush Haradinaj did not refer to a special status in police proceedings and to a later claim before the investigating judge. Once again, the police did not receive a diplomatic note or other notification of the declaration of transit of a special diplomatic mission in Kosovo, in accordance with Article 42(4) of the Convention on Special Missions, so Ramush Haradinaj did not have any information that he was returning from a special diplomatic mission in transit through Slovenia because he did not refer to immunity himself and had only a valid tourist visa in the passport; the police did not verify his diplomatic status. There is also no justification for abandoning the obligation to monitor the implementation of the State Border Control Act. In a specific case, I also ordered police reporting before the Ministry of the Interior received a question or interpretation. Since the procedure with Ramus Haradinaj was more responsive to the public, the Police Directorate and other security tasks, on the basis of my request, had already submitted a case to the General Police Administration on 19 June for a report or clarification on the circumstances of the deprivation of liberty and all measures taken, including clarifications on the validity or status of the international tyranny. The question of Mr Andre Šircl concerning the detention of former Kosovo Prime Minister Ramush Haradinaj was sent to me and to the Minister for Foreign Affairs on 22 June 2015. As Minister, I immediately acted and ordered that police procedures be checked. On the basis of the police report and the documentation obtained, the Directorate of Police and Other Security delivered an opinion on 3 July 2015, which shows that the police acted professionally and legally in a particular case, which I am also explaining today. As a result of everything I have said, the content of the interpretation, which is also based on false facts, manifests at least as a misunderstanding of the legitimate part of the police as a body in the composition, which, in the course of the implementation of international tyranny, will only be brought before the competent judicial authority, which then fully assumes the conduct of the proceedings, which, as Minister of the Interior, I cannot and must not influence in any way to avoid moral gambling. When the police act under the Criminal Procedure Act, as Minister of the Interior, I am never in the concrete operational work of the police, and under no circumstances will I interfere or otherwise exert political pressure. The rules adopted by this esteemed National Assembly must be the same for all, and I will stand firm for this until the end of the term of office. The police serve primarily people and their security and care for social order in the country; of course, under the watchful eye of the judiciary, the prosecution, parliamentary or even democratic, civil and other forms of control; including my supervision of the legality of police work as Minister of Home Affairs. A border policeman or a Minister of the Interior cannot assess whether the actual state of origin of the State seeking a person through Interpol is the same as the actual state of the Hague court’s judgment. Only a court may decide to do so as part of an independent branch of government. Even in Slovenia, we should be aware that, regardless of all the evidence in the interpretation, especially the political and economic damage, the law does not allow for a different procedure. I am convinced that the expectation of all Members and Members is that citizens will respect the laws adopted by this Parliament. Dear Members and Members! It seems to me that in the end there is something to be said that is actually self-evident. Interpellators should commend the police for their effective and correct work instead of making an intervention against the Minister of the Interior, and in doing so they should express their expectation to the Minister that the police will continue to do their work, as provided for by the law. Since the police acted legally, professionally and apolitically, I believe that this interpretation is entirely unfounded. It is sad that individuals are abused by such an important institution of parliamentary control over the executive branch of power as interpolation. They go so far as to discredit me, they're willing to discredit the entire police. In addition, when the only possible logical outcome of this debate is that the Slovenian police acted in the Haradinaj case within the framework of their legal powers and duties. As I have already said, interpellation is clearly the most important instrument of political control over the work of the executive branch of government, in which there is certainly a large amount of power concentrated. However, it is insufferable that the interpretation is based on the wrong factual basis, abstract claims and does not at all define in which is the breach of powers or violation of legislation by the Minister or anyone under her authority, either at the Ministry or at the police office as the body of the Ministry. With this interpolation, which is clearly misused, the coalition, Parliament and the whole country are doing enormous damage. The basis for this interpretation is not irregularity or abuse, but the legal basis accepted by this National Assembly and was the same in the days of my predecessors. It is a complete political construct of interpolation with a view to overthrowing the coalition, with a view to trying to take power; and beyond the legitimate constitutional options that have been avoided in our democratic regime. The Authority must be carried out in the interest of the people. Interpellation as a control of political power and an institution for the exercise of responsibility in a democratic country should also be put in place on behalf of the people; this time I am not sure. Through the Ramus Haradinaj procedure, the duty of the police as a state authority is being exercised. Restricting the legitimate functioning of the police would be an obvious abuse by a state authority that is not in the public interest and is finding the basic principle of democratic and legal regulation – the principle of equality. This would be a very dangerous precedent that would make the principles of the reputation and integrity of Slovenia. With no decision or action during the term of office, I have not created the impression that the police would be under political pressure, that confidence in the Ministry of the Interior and its integrity are indisputable and clearly moving the operation of this department. Aware of the vital importance of the operational autonomy of the police and the harmfulness of political pressure on the work of the police as a crime detection and investigation body was one of my key starting points when I took over the ministerial function, which I am consistently fulfilling. I fully assess interpolation as unfounded, completely pointless and extremely harmful. In the end, if I can sum it up, why am I actually being intertwined? Because we are successfully facing migration pressures; because I have provided the police with an additional EUR 67 million for 2016 and 2017; because the urgently needed police jobs have already been realized; because I am trying to remedy the bad situation in the police; because I want to fully regulate the working conditions and status of police and police officers and because I respect the laws and other regulations; and I am not and will never be politically involved in the work of the police. Ladies and gentlemen, if this is my sin, I am proud and happy to take it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u7	Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. In his introduction, the President of the Government said that all the allegations of interpretation were false. Since the Prime Minister is here, I am addressing you with questions and asking for answers. Is it true that Haradinaj was detained? That's what we write in our interpretation. Does the interpretation state that there has been an extraordinary meeting of the Assembly of Kosovo where a special resolution has been adopted in this case? Is there any indication from the interpolation that a call has been made to block the purchase of Slovenian goods in Kosovo? Does the statement from the interpolation indicate that the State of Serbia and Montenegro has called for a tyrant, which is no longer there since 2006? Does Mr Vukic, Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, hold the statement recorded in the interpretation? Is there any indication from the interpretation that Mr. Haradinaj made ten trips after 2012 when he was released from the Hague court and was not detained? Does it state that Mr Haradinaj was released in 2012 in the Hague court? I propose, Mr President, that in this case Haradinaj, the President of the Government, who has nothing to do with the real facts that have occurred in the Republic of Slovenia, argues that all allegations in the interpretation are unrealistic. And the additional question that has been raised, colleague, was not recorded in the interpretation; or it is true that the Haradinaj case has resulted in some way of temporary withdrawal of the Slovenian army contingent in KFOR. This is just necessary before the debate is opened before the views of the groups are reached in order for these matters to be properly clarified. Because in a way that the President of the Government has allowed himself to discredit interpolation — with such a flat-rate assessment — it is inappropriate because no flat-out, no claim he has made in relation to this interpolation, in these cases is sustainable. Haradinaj was detained, Haradinaj was forgiven, Mr Vukic said what was written in the interpretation, there was an extraordinary meeting of the Assembly of Kosovo and a unanimous adoption of the resolution. I suggest that the President of the Government, if he has already decided to evaluate our interpretation, respond decisively to the chapters. Mr President of the National Assembly, I propose that you invite the President of the Government to take a little walk after the interpretation and say: hold, no. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u9	I'll answer the first procedural question first. In what was claimed by those who filed the interpolation, they enjoyed a relatively wide deviation from what was recorded in the interpolation. This is somehow permissible and is an integral part of parliamentary practice. In what was the response to the interpolation, they received an answer that was appropriate, by the President of the Government and by the Minister. I do not understand the basis of your procedural proposal; except that you are trying to take on the role of interrogator by means of a procedural proposal. However, you cannot assume the role of an interrogator in this National Assembly. This is not in any of the rules of procedure so that someone may request the other party to react in a certain way; and this has been addressed to the President of the National Assembly, who may request it from the other. I'm not a judge, and we're not gonna make that decision. However, I decide whether the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been applied in an appropriate manner. And in your case, I find that this is an abuse of the procedure that is always available to you; and this is a procedural proposal. It's not about anything else. If you say the same thing again, I'll have to act. Okay. Mr. Branko Zorman has the procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u10	Mr President, thank you for this introduction. You took it out of my tongue. My procedural proposal is that you warn Mr Tank not to allow him to use a procedural or procedural proposal mechanism in the future, because he is using it to discuss, to provide some facts; and not for a procedural proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u11	Thank you for this procedural proposal. I'll take it into account below. The views of the groups are now being presented. Mr Tanko again has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Before you gave my colleague your word, you threatened me with sanctions in advance. But I am addressing you because what was said in the introduction by the President of the Government was also extremely important for the continuation of the debate on interpretation. And in his debate and support to the Minister, he said that all the allegations from the interpretation were false. I've got it written down. I specifically wrote this down. I have addressed to you some questions, or some of the arguments from the interpretation, which are highly reasoned and which, in their response, not even the Minister who is interpeeled, has denied. That Haradinaj was detained, no one denied; no one denied the date, no one denied that he was in some way detained in Slovenia for two days. No one has denied that a tyrant has been issued by the non-existent state of Serbia and Montenegro. No one denied in this performance that there was an extraordinary meeting of the Kosovo Assembly, which is also written in. No one denied that this assembly had adopted a resolution on the treatment of Slovenia at that time, that there were still some of the things I said. In his speech, the President of the Government allowed himself to make a statement that they did not keep the interpretative statements. All matters are documented, and the statement of the Prime Minister of Serbia, Mr Vukic, is prescribed from the video clip, from the media. Mr President of the National Assembly, you are obliged to ensure that things are going well in the National Assembly, whether it is an issue of interpretation or a problem of consideration of any law. The President of the Government, if I understand correctly, will not be here all day and will not debate; he is present at the outset and will come to the end of the vote on the photo deadline. It would be right if his claim, his statement, argued. If you do not ensure this, then in the National Assembly you allow debates and discredits on long and long terms. As part of the executive branch of the Government, the President is particularly committed to accuracy and precision. He's not anyone, he's not a parliamentarian, he's the Prime Minister. And if the President of the Government allows himself to refuse to make a decisive reply and speak in general and throughout, then something is very wrong in this country. So I'm once again giving you a proposal to ask him to argue the things he said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u13	For the second time, the same procedural proposal represents the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, which you have demonstrated on the spot, so I am giving you the first warning to begin with. I saw two more procedural; mag. Lilliana Kozlovich and Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u14	Thank you, President. I propose that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you inform the Head of the Group of Members that further discussion is intended to clarify the circumstances of all the statements made by the President and the Minister. Let him wait and get all the answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u15	Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, do you still want procedural? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u16	Parliamentary practice is a bad thing. The more we allow it, the more it will go on. Someone's gonna have to cut it once and change it. It can only be you, President of the National Assembly. The leader of the opposition's largest parliamentary group, who today are also the authors of this multi-day debate that awaits us, do not even allow what they have proposed to come to this debate; because we would now like to come to the floor, Mr Tanko. Therefore, my proposal is the following: it is simply necessary to introduce a practice if you are making a procedural proposal, please also provide an article of the Rules of Procedure; precisely what you will do. Because that doesn't have any basis. Since when can you call on the Prime Minister if he's not the subject of interpretation at all? The subject of interpretation is – my friend, you will wait quietly for me to finish – the Minister of the Interior. And there's something I'd like to say. Let us, Comrade Tanka, come on. Because you are extremely aggressive in your performances, extremely, I suggest you do the following thing. Give once an opportunity to use everything you can as a Member within the discussion without abuse of the Rules of Procedure – this is to discuss. And this is my proposal, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u17	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Joint Left Group, on her behalf by Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u18	Thank you, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! The responsibility of ministers for their work is constitutional and legal. The Constitution clearly states that ministers are jointly responsible for the work of the government and that each minister is responsible for the work of his own ministry. Furthermore, the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia provides that ministers are responsible for the decisions and positions of the government and for their implementation, for their decisions in the management of ministries and for the suspension of the measures they should take. Contrary to what the President of the Government said in the introduction, we believe in the United Left that this interpretation of the Minister of the Interior's work and responsibility is dealt with at the most appropriate time. In the current situation, the debate on the work and responsibility of the minister is more than urgently needed, but not because of a few months-old case with the Kosovo Prime Minister. If we review the work of the Minister from the performance to today, there are reasons for criticizing her work. More than enough reasons for the Minister of the Interior's interpretation. The first observation already made in this mandate refers to the participation of the Minister at the meetings of the National Assembly and its working bodies. The Ministry was represented by the Secretary of State on all the major topics that we have addressed in this mandate. Let's take a look at some examples. The Minister was not at the hearing of the budget rebalancing for this year, there was no consideration of the consequences of austerity measures on police and police personnel, there was no consideration of the resolution on the long-term development programme of the police by 2025. Even at the meetings where today's topic was very topical, it was not. It was not at the time of the consideration of the amendment of the Foreigners Act, which we had to amend because of the unconstitutional regulation of the right to family reunification, which is still quite current today. There was no police work report at the hearing either. You did not even have time to cooperate in addressing the European Agenda on Migration, nor did Greece and Italy have time to cooperate in dealing with temporary measures in the field of international protection. She didn't even notice the minister outside this house, she didn't make statements to the press, she didn't take part in the press conferences. In recent times, counselors have apparently suggested that her complete absence is not good for her, so she came to the meetings of working bodies several times, read the stand, apologized, and left. She even participated in some kind of press conference. When the refugees were waiting at the border for the third day, she even took her time and set out for the field. Despite this, most probably still think that the Minister of the Interior is Boštjan Šefic. He is present at virtually all meetings of the National Assembly and the working bodies, at all press conferences, while also walking on the ground and coordinating the activities of all those involved, inspecting accommodations, making arrangements with local communities and NGOs. Actually, we can ask ourselves what the Minister is doing. Let us also look at the responsibility for the decisions taken in the management of the Ministry and the suspension of the measures to be taken. Let us first look at the Minister's day-to-day change of views on the talks on quotas for the relocation of refugees and the obvious ignorance of the situation. On 16 June, the Minister of the Interior gave the following position: "Slovenia does not support the idea of mandatory quotas for the allocation of refugees across EU Member States. It is essential that Slovenia decide whether and how many applicants it wants to accept, because it is only by doing so that we can remain within our integration and administrative capacities, which is also important in relation to reducing potential security risks." Such an attitude is unacceptable and should never come to such records as the following. I quote once again: "The Interior Minister of Slovenia, with the support of the Czech Republic and Poland, has specifically pointed out the importance of the security aspect. The Commission's proposals according to the Minister's words do not contain an assessment of the impact on the security image of the Member States, in particular with regard to the security verification of persons and the need to prevent and filter security-related persons, such as terrorists, into migration flows." The Minister therefore took a long time before the public and pre-criminalized the fugitives as terrorists and highlighted the security aspect as a priority. No mention of humanitarianism, no mention of solidarity. The Secretary of State, who was obviously better acquainted with the situation a week earlier, described the situation differently in the Committee on the Interior. I quote: "As far as the security aspect as we have discussed today is concerned, I must point out the following: from the point of view of the Ministry of the Interior, this is not an emergency relationship, which I would like to point out because this is a problem that we are dealing with permanently all the time. It is true, however, that today we have highlighted the possibility of a slightly more intense development in this area in the coming period, as regards these regular migrations; and the aspect of the European Union's arrangement for resettlement, re-accommodation and so on, which has not yet been completed." There are therefore two options: whether the Minister did not know what she was saying; or whether instead of the position of Slovenia and the Ministry she spoke on her own behalf. Let's move on. At the extraordinary meeting of the Justice and Home Affairs Council in early September, the Minister's position was somewhat different. The question of mandatory quotas was no longer clear whether we supported them or not. The Minister's position was quite confused, first of all she claimed that Slovenia was accepting mandatory quotas and would accept an additional 631 persons; then immediately she warned that solidarity must be voluntary. At that time, the Minister has probably already found that the phrase "Obligatory quotas are strongly opposed by Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary and Slovenia" is in itself unacceptable. The fact that Hungary had completed the construction of a border wall and had already pointed to a possible diversion of refugees against Slovenia was also likely to play an important role in a slight change of attitude at that time. The Minister should have been prepared for this a long time ago. Apparently, she hasn't studied different scenarios. The Minister then argued that Slovenia was more than ready for refugees, that they had also drawn up a plan and argued at the meeting of the Committee on Internal Affairs that Slovenia was ready for the arrival of refugees, that the necessary measures and scenarios were ready and that there would be no problems. In the United Left, we have constantly warned the Minister and the Government that there is not a single measure in the documents that she has presented to us that we should urgently take. We have put forward concrete proposals and solutions to effectively protect refugees and prevent them from returning to Hungary. Of course, the Minister did not listen to our proposals, nor did she listen to proposals and warnings from NGOs. Nor did she want to hear anything about the existing judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, which clearly took a position on the return of refugees and that blind compliance with the Dublin Regulation was unacceptable. In doing so, the Court has stressed the obligation of the EU Member States to assess the risk of breaches of the Convention in the implementation of the Dublin Regulation, which relate mainly to the return of persons. All these warnings were overheared; however, until Croatia withdrew from its promises, all refugees who came to us returned either to Croatia or to Hungary. The minister of the clear position on the behaviour of the Hungarian authorities did not even take over; she simply saw no problem in returning refugees to the chaos and inhumane conditions prevailing in Hungary. All the Minister has provided is that Slovenia will not close its borders and the next day it closed them. Nevertheless, it continued to insist that the borders are not closed, that we are obliged to be guardians of the Schengen and that we must respect the European acquis. Even though it was clear to all of us that the Schengen and Dublin rules are no longer in force and that they cannot be applied in such a way as to avoid violations of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights. How much Slovenia should be prepared for the arrival of more refugees has clearly been demonstrated last weekend. When we read the daily news and monitor the news shows, we got the feeling that things were working and going on without any major problems, the reality on the ground was completely different. There was chaos in the field. The refugees waited three days before the border crossing, and the transports to the collection centre were random. Nobody knew exactly when and how many buses would reach the border. When refugees were deployed through the configuration centres, there were also situations when members of the same family were installed at different ends of Slovenia. Refugees received certificates in the Slovenian language after registration, did not even know what registration meant or could continue their journey. We do not want to imagine what the situation would be if so many humanitarian and non-governmental organisations and volunteers were not involved. Civil protection has not yet been able to engage before Sunday, when the situation has almost completely calmed down. However, the complete failure of the Ministry of the Interior to prepare for the refugee crisis is evidenced by the fact that the Minister has failed to take care of the police officers who have been sent to the border. They are the ones who are the ones who are the main target of criticism in the end, even though they only implement policies adopted by the Ministry. In addition to the fact that refugees were primarily left to provide volunteers and volunteers and humanitarian and non-governmental organisations, the same was true of police. While the minister followed her instructions after 12 hours and several hours, she was unable to provide even a warm meal. At the same time, it was at that time that another wrong decision was taken by the Government, which, in our view, was not opposed by the Minister of the Interior. On Sunday, the government took a decision on the participation of the Republic of Slovenia in the first part of the second phase of the European Union's operation in the southern part of the central Mediterranean, EUNAVFOR MED, which further exacerbates the missing policies that have caused the crisis and are perpetuating it. While the Minister never wanted to talk about the reasons for the so-called refugee crisis, nor did she answer the questions we asked her in this regard. It is symptomatic that Europe and Slovenia are stressing how to solve the problem of the greatest refugee crisis since World War II, forgetting to say that we are solving the problem that we have cooked ourselves, including Slovenia. The refugee crisis is a result of the long-standing economic exhaustion of countries in the global periphery and the continued political destabilisation of the area. Let us only remember the invasion of Iraq by a coalition of willing ones, which Slovenia also supported with the villa declaration. That the European Union is not aware of the wrongness of its policy, it is best to point out that its humanitarian operation Triton, in which the Slovenian army has also helped rescue shipwreckers on the high seas, replaces it with an operation by EUNAVFOR MED, which is something else altogether. This operation involves diving ships in order to violently cut off refugees from transport routes. This will mean an increase in transport to Europe and an increasing number of refugees will remain trapped on the coasts of North Africa, in refugee camps and in war zones. This will further exacerbate the already great humanitarian distress that these people have experienced. The Government, including the Minister of the Interior, obviously has no particular problems. The decision was most likely adopted on Sunday precisely because the whole public was focused on what was happening along the Croatian-Slovenian border. In recent days, the situation at border crossings has calmed down, and more refugees have not been accepted in recent days. We expected that, on the basis of the poor experience of last weekend, the Minister would immediately prepare all the necessary measures to ensure that everything would really go smoothly in the future. Apart from recasting her position on the European Commission's proposal, she has done nothing this time. It still insists on playing the guardian of the Schengen, and still advocates respect for the ineffective European rules. Refugees are totally dependent on the day-to-day policies of individual European Member States, which open borders once and accept refugees; once again, the borders close and return refugees to where they came from. We have not yet established a humanitarian corridor, yet we have not allowed refugees to move safely and legally to countries in which they wish to apply for asylum. Fear of security risks continues to spread unjustifiably in the public, the compensation responsibility of all those who will have to help the refugees. After all, the Minister has not been able to publicly condemn the growing xenophobia, which is mainly flowing through social networks. There is an urgent need to commend all volunteers and volunteers, humanitarian organisations, non-governmental organisations, health personnel, police officers, soldiers, members of civil protection and all others who have helped in the field last week and have done their job excellently, despite the fact that the Minister has not provided them with all the necessary conditions for smooth work. With all that has been said, all the confusion over the former Kosovo Prime Minister is negligible. Because of this and all the foregoing, we will support interpolation in the United Left. We will support the interpolation, regardless of the fact that only the text of the interpolation refers to a completely different case. We're sure all the reasons to be a magician have been given. Ms Vesno Györkös Žnidar shall be dismissed from office of Minister of the Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u19	Before continuing, I would like to thank the President of the Government for his presence at the meeting. For his absence from the meeting, he apologized for going on a business trip abroad. Now the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – has the word, in her name Mr Jernej Vrtovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u20	Dear Mr President of the National Assembly, distinguished ministerial assembly, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Interpellation is a constitutionally designated institution of parliamentary control over the functioning of a government or individual minister. With this institution, Parliament has an influence on the way the executive branch works. The Institute of Interpellation has been used quite often so far, but as we know, it has been successful in very few cases. However, the real aim of the intervention is most often to open a broader debate on the policy of the government or the individual ministry in a particular area, which is often particularly useful for the coalition to face arguments for and against the individual policy that it leads. Honourable assembly, debate on the work and responsibility of the Minister of the Interior, Mag. The village of Györkös Žnidar came to the meeting of the National Assembly at the right time. The Minister's interpretation, however, refers to the alleged illegal deprivation of liberty to a high Kosovo policy, former Kosovo President Ramush Haradinaj at Jožet Pučnik Airport. Ramush Haradinaj was arrested on his return from Germany on the basis of the 2004 Serbian international tyranny. So if it was a valid warrant, our authorities did the right thing. However, the question is how Ramush Haradinaj traveled smoothly across the other countries of the European Union, as he came straight from Germany to Jožet Pučnik Airport. Ramush Haradinaj claimed that all European airports had withdrawn the charges against him, and it is also appropriate to point out that all proceedings against him before the Hague court were also concluded. Ladies and gentlemen, this complication at Ramush Haradinaj is one more case to point out, an unusual situation where Minister Erjavec has now said that Justice Minister Goran Klemenčič has decided not to allow the extradition of Haradinaj to Serbia, even if the court so decides. The fact that the Minister says he will not respect the decision in this case of the Court of Krajina is all too unusual. The very subject of interpretation, namely the Haradinaj case, is not sufficient in our opinion for the Minister of the Interior to interpel; problems are elsewhere, particularly the lack of operationality and the lack of response of the Minister to the migrant crisis. There are other mistakes that can be seen in the work of the Minister of Home Affairs. We are facing a pressing migration problem and its security aspects, which clearly falls within the competence of the Minister of Interior's work. The security aspects of the issue were discussed yesterday at a meeting of the National Assembly. It is entirely justified that there is evidence at the expense of the work of the Minister, which is related to solving the current migration problem. In Novi Slovenija, we believe that the Minister of the Interior is no match for this crisis situation when migrants are knocking on Slovenian doors to cross our country. If we look across the countries of the European Union, we can see that at this moment it is those who comment, who are calming, who are coordinating all activities related to the migration crisis. In these stories our Minister in Slovenia does not feel; even in the meetings we had in the National Assembly, Secretary Šefic did a great job. Somehow he seems to be the Slovenian interior minister right now. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is no problem that the Minister does not appear in public for one year if the situation is normal. The problem arises when the situation is extremely serious, and it is today. Right now, I would need the Minister's response. Instead of the Minister, as I have already said, the State Secretary appears in the media. Why is the presence of the Minister of the Interior important in the current situation? Because the Minister is the authority that can calm people in such a situation and inspire confidence that the situation is under control. Only after three days did the Minister hold a press conference, and before that, the Secretary of State performed. On Saturday, when the border situation was extremely serious, we expected the Minister's citizens to see the Prime Minister in Brežice. It would also be customary for the Minister to go to the Coast and Rigonce to be informed of the situation on the spot, as they say. I'm afraid we didn't witness that. That there is no real coordination for the resolution of the migrant crisis, the mayors also report to us. They say that everything is going too slowly, that there is no coordination, that all planned and active activities have been very late informed. And such reports also indicate that we are not best prepared for the greater wave of refugees. Coordination in the field has been limping since only a few more than three thousand migrants knocked on the southern border; what could there be if the Croatian government did not decide to escort the coaches and buses of migrants to the Hungarian border? If we had experienced such a migratory wave in Slovenia instead of Hungary, the situation today would be quite different. However, the greatest evidence in these days of crisis also relates to the provision of police at border crossings. Police say they've been on the job for more than 26 hours, and they're only supposed to have two sandwiches and water delivered to them at all times. Drinks and food, if possible, had to be bought with their own money. It's also supposed to be a complete misrepresentation of logistics. That was the case with the police union, as well as with individual police officers on social and social networks. Dear Madam Secretary! At the same time, in Nova Slovenija we wonder how police officers should protect the border if they are literally hungry and tired. If we are talking about a logistical complication, we are talking about a lack of preparedness, a lack of preparedness for a crisis, we are talking about a major mistake. Otherwise, the equipment of our police is in very poor condition and the Minister of the Interior is the first to provide conditions for the smooth work of the police. So far, the Minister of the Interior has not done this, which is another observation we have made. So we have a police working under conditions that are no longer safe or for their own safety; and in future conditions they do not appear to be significantly improved. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Minister! The findings described – some others we will also point out during today's debate – are the reasons why we will be Members of the New Slovenia Group of Members – of the Christian Democrats the interpretation against the Minister of Mag. Vesno Györkös Žnidar was supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u21	The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, on her behalf by Dr. Bojan Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u22	Thank you. All those who accompany this meeting are respected! The basis of today's interpolation is the detention and seizure of a diplomatic passport for a person who was deprived of liberty after crossing the border and of Interpol's tyranny. A number of questions remained open. Why they have not carried out the procedure in the developed countries of the European Union where the principle of Ordnung und Disciplin applies; and this person has uninterruptedly crossed these borders. It is a matter of the tactfulness of the work of the authorities in such cases, as has been shown several times and we have been commended for the fact that the law enforcement authorities have acted tactfully. This points to the uncoordinated work of ministries and individual institutions within Slovenia and also in conjunction with the European Union or the Balkans. These are one of the reasons that has already been written in interpretation. I believe that the problem is much broader, as the colleagues of the United Left have pointed out. It is the discontent of people, especially the discontent of the police; this is due to low salaries, unpaid allowances, the number of employees who are being reduced and investment malnutrition. I must draw attention to the fact that both police unions have come to us Members. At the initiative of the United Left, the SDS and our Members, we organised a meeting on the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government to highlight this issue. Instead of the Minister, we put pressure on Minister Mumorr for more resources and better working conditions for the police. And we are the ones who can do our best to make more money available to the police in the current budget. The problem is much broader and I do not accept the answers that other institutions are to blame. The minister states, according to the principle of hot bone, that they are guilty in Interpol, that they are guilty in the Balkans, that they are Serbs; that it is the Albanians' fault and that it is their fault and that it is their fault and that it is their fault to the Minister of Justice. After one year, we would expect a number of answers to the questions that remained unresolved. The role of the police – the number of police officers is decreasing, the private sector is growing, there are more and more businesses being carried out for the police by other institutions; and, of course, security is suffering. Money is found for so-called outsourcing; not for cops. What are we doing with European institutions? How far are we in Europe? We see that the Minister is not present enough in the European institutions. Also because of the lack of money, there is no money to send our people to work in the European institutions, which means that the lack of flow of information also means that we have not cooperated properly with bodies such as Interpol, Europol and the like. There's no money for membership, no money for jobs or anything. We have not responded to the paradigm of whether the police will act for human security or whether it is an increased control and control of people. Here is the worrying fact that we are going to an authoritarian state. If we look at it, one party has leadership in the legislative branch of power and one party has a minister of justice and a minister of the interior. This has not happened in the history of Slovenia. We know that it has been repeatedly criticised that one party should not have jurisdiction over the judiciary and the police, because then it is possible to process someone from the beginning to the end after this principle; for everything is in the power of one party and there is no so-called checks and balances to verify each other. What kind of doctrine are we taking? Either we adopt the doctrine of war against crime, as it all appears; or we go to modern doctrines of reducing damage and approaching the local level. Pressure on the police after increasing efficiency and media popularity with house investigations and the like and showing results creates overcrowding and stress at work, which the unionists have warned us about. I do not think that the use of migration for promotion needs is good, because migration is currently a very big problem and the emergence of slums, favels and people's concentration in such areas will cause more problems in the future. We are barely faced with the current problems, but to think two steps forward, we have not seen any strategy. Finally, I would like to stress that the safety of police officers is forgotten, but it is not only about security against actual threats, but also about environmental and health security, which we have forgotten in the event of migration. We are witnessing a new concept of security in Europe, building security from the bottom down – police are approaching the local level to obtain relevant information and can act appropriately; and, of course, repressive, which is their basic. Unfortunately, however, the institution is assessed from above down — according to the one who runs the institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u23	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, on her behalf by Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Nice greetings, the President of the National Assembly, the Minister of the Interior, the Council of Ministers and, of course, dear colleagues and colleagues; especially less than half of the members of the SDS Group of Members – the speaker of today's interpretation, who is with us! Before I say the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, SMC, it is interesting to say that today we have been interviewing the Minister or Minister of the Interior for ten years from the convenings of the national assemblies or governments since 1992. This means that it is one of the most popular ministries that are interpeeled. And as we will hear very soon, simply because it is very easy to interpolate. We need ten Members, ten signatures sent to allow us to go into interpolation. And this today reminds us of something like this, very dangerous toying for democracy. Now is our parliamentary position, or position, of our parliamentary group. To begin with, as I have already indicated, a few words first about the role and purpose of interpolation in parliamentary democracy. Interpellation is the first of several mechanisms available to Parliament to call on ministers appointed by Parliament on a proposal from the President of the Government to report on the work of ministers, if necessary. In this way Parliament, in addition to the government or its President, plays the role of supervisor over the work of the individual minister. This gives great authority not only to ministers, but also to Parliament in particular; and consequently, be careful, too, of great responsibility. The responsibility to state the legitimate reasons for interpolation when requested; and finally to respect the fundamental dignity of the human being in this act towards the one being interpolated. Both are signs of state-of-the-art behaviour, regardless of whether we are a coalition or whether we are an opposition. In the Slovenian system, interpellation is the strictest and at the same time a relatively small effort is the effective control instrument that they have in their hands as a rule — and there is nothing wrong with it — in practice, the opposition MPs in the National Assembly to call ministers to account. Under Article 118 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, on the one hand, it is sufficient or it is possible for a relatively small group of ten Members to initiate an interpretation of the work of the government or of the individual minister. At the same time, this level of responsibility is further intensified in such a way that the National Assembly, as a whole quorum on the final decision on the interpretation or expression of the non-trustee, must do so with at least a majority of all Members, i.e. sixty-six and more. Where are we on today's specific case of interpolation? On 24 June this year, a group of 21 members from the SDS Group launched an intervention against the Minister of the Interior explaining that the Slovenian police had committed the following: violated domestic and international law; reduced the reputation of our country in the international area; and consequently caused political and economic damage to the Republic of Slovenia in its cooperation with the Republic of Kosovo. I will proceed with this and at the same time repeat the key professionally supported facts, on the basis of which, in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, all ministers of the reported infringements or, as our President of the Government, the indictee – the accusers, colleagues of the SDS, has said in full advance of me – we categorically reject. First, on alleged violations of the domestic and international legal order. Police have very limited powers in the execution of the tyranny procedure and have no decision-making powers. Throughout the entire hearing procedure, the police acted in accordance with the following legal order to the Minister in interpreting the case. I will state which laws it has taken into account: the Law on the Organisation and Work of the Police, the Law on Tasks and Powers, the Law on the Control of the State Border, the Law on Criminal Procedure, the United Nations Convention on Special Missions and the Law on the Schengen Borders. Now a little more concrete. During the verification of Mr Haradinaj's passport, a valid international search was recorded. A telephone verification of the validity of the measure was also carried out through the Interpol National Bureau in Slovenia, which confirmed the validity and verification by the Sirene staff member of Interpol Serbia, who orally confirmed the validity of the measure, the following day also by notification. Again on this point the emphasis on the fact – the tyranny was valid at the time. After confirming the validity of the act, the police took Mr Haradinaj's freedom. It carried out the procedure for the confiscation of liberty in accordance with the rules in force and orally briefed it on the rights in English and in writing in Albanian. Upon his request, she informed the diplomatic and consular representation of Kosovo of the deprivation of liberty and informed the investigating judge of the District Court. By bringing Mr Haradinaj to the District Court, the police carried out their duties under their jurisdiction with regard to the current international tyranny. The implementation of international tyranny is under the exclusive jurisdiction of the judiciary; the police do not have any choice or decision-making powers. It is important to recall that Mr Haradinaj did not invoke diplomatic immunity in the proceedings and did not submit documents to prove that he has diplomatic status on a special diplomatic mission in Kosovo. The Republic of Slovenia has not even been informed of this. The fact that Mr Haradinaj is on a special diplomatic issue has only been heard by the competent authorities in the process from a diplomatic note sent by the Kosovo Embassy to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Slovenia. The procedure against Mr Haradinaj ended after the Ministry of Foreign Affairs submitted to the District Court a diplomatic note that the request from the Kosovo Embassy was justified and returned to it and allow for further travel. Obviously, all of the above clearly rejects the processes by which any objective or political responsibility and non-action at this point could be revealed to the Minister. One day after the event, the Minister also requested a police report and the Director's opinion on the police and other security tasks, from which she was acting professionally and legally. It can also be rejected as an indication of the suspension of the duty in the exercise of control over the implementation of the applicable police regulations. As regards the Minister's responsibility that political damage has been caused in relations with the Republic of Kosovo and the damage to Slovenian companies operating in the Republic of Kosovo cannot be taken seriously. On the contrary, the correct and transparent implementation of the procedure strengthened the confidence of members in Interpol, the effectiveness of police work and the fulfilment of Slovenia's commitments to the protection of the Schengen border. The findings addressed to the Minister are based, in the view of the modern Centre's Group of the Parties, on the lack of understanding of the legitimate police work, on unverified facts that do not stand the test, and finally on an unworthy attempt to personally account for the interpreters to the Minister. For all the reasons mentioned in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we refuse to interpellate the Minister in all the points marked. Moreover, at the beginning of this understanding of the interpolation mechanism, we are convinced that the reasons, content and also the attitude towards the constitutional interpolation mechanism by the signatories cast a poor light on the responsible exercise of the constitutional function performed by the National Assembly in relation to its work vis-à-vis the executive branch. We have already informed the Ministers at this point that the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will unanimously oppose its interpretation, and on this occasion we wish to do our best to continue to manage the ministry successfully and to respond to the many sectoral challenges of the current time; at the forefront of addressing the internal security and other aspects of the refugee or migrant problem that are in its ministry's field work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u25	The text is addressed to the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, on behalf of Dr Vinko Gorenak khm.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u26	It's working, President. Yeah, it's working. I wanted to say that it works. Members are completely silent. So if we do a km km, then you don't have to give reminders. Maybe use this method in the future. Dear Madam Secretary! The edge with which you started or read your performance – I do not read my performances – gives me the opportunity to adjust my performance to your words. You said I didn't know the police or the police. That's what you told me I spent 30 years there. And I hope to say one thing – that you will never know the work of the police as much as I do because you will never survive there for 30 years. In view of the claim you've made that I don't know the work of the police; I think I know at least about the work of the police and that I know something about the police and that I know something about the police. So I'd like to start by asking you why you're ordering the services to try and find out what Gorenak is going to ask you when you're interpreting. Unusual. What Gorenak will ask when interpreting is not actually police work, is not the work of any of the Directorates. And the second question is, what are you doing? That's how they tell me you usually come to work at nine o'clock and go home at half past three. Maybe we should start by answering that question. I won't put up others. But I'm going to say, on the start, I'm going to offer the possibility of withdrawing the interpolation, starting. It's a business possibility, I didn't think of words. I will suggest this to the Group if you answer one simple question. Minister, I suggest you set up a small headquarters quickly, say Mrs Kozlovich, who is also familiar with these matters; Mr Ferlugo, who knows something about these things; Mr Šefic, who knows much about this; Mr Staret, the top police expert who is today the State Secretary of Justice; Mr Krašovec, Secretary General of the Government, who is a judge and former criminal police officer, knows much. Try to answer my next question and I will immediately suggest to the Group that it withdraws the interpretation, because this is possible under the Rules of Procedure. The question is this: How is it possible that we have a central computer system in Lyon? This is one computer that has thousands of screens, one of the screens is on Brnika, one of the screens is in London, one is in Paris, one is in Berlin, one is not sure where. And the single computer system also has single screen images in all countries. It requires a single entry of data; a police officer in Brnik, Rome, Berlin and wherever he enters exactly the same data. And how is it possible that the answer to this same central computer from Lyon, now I have to put it humanly, in Berlin, Rome, London, The Hague, Brussels, wherever you want – a non-problem person. How is it possible for another answer to come to Ljubljana from this same computer? If you can answer that, it's a little miracle. It's a real little miracle. The only answer I wouldn't accept is that the computer broke down, because then it broke down for everyone. Then it broke down for London, Paris, Berlin, and so on. Why would this computer now send the data to Ljubljana'receive' for the same person and the same passport; because it did not have two passports? If you answer that question, I am prepared to propose to the Group of Members that we withdraw the interpretation if you know how to answer that. My proposal was serious, try to answer that question. The matter is very simple, how can a computer send some other information to Ljubljana than in others It is the same as sending me one email from the Central System of the National Assembly, to Mr Horvat sending another data, to Mrs Lipicervo sending a third data; while all three of us demand the same thing. [[…]] In order to make this technically possible, I ask the Minister to explain. And if you can explain it, here, I'm willing to withdraw the matter even though you tried to discredit me at the start; but it won't throw me off track. Since you are a woman, I will also adapt my words to this fact; especially to the facts and nothing else. Our Constitution, in its 118th Article, states that ten Members shall submit an interpretation. Now it seems a little controversial to someone, as Mrs Lipicer said before, it's a little strange. It would be best if we only had a coalition, but we wouldn't have the opposition, but then we'd be in another system. The Constitution thus guarantees this, and until the Constitution is changed, the situation is quite clear. The Rules of Procedure also refer to interpretation, at least ten Members submit it, the National Assembly or the President of the National Assembly then forwards the matter on the same day, and the Minister may reply already to the National Assembly, already the President of the National Assembly may order whether it is fifteen days or thirty days or whatever. [[…]] But all the presidents of the National Assemblys, as well as the present ones, did the same — within a period of thirty days. The Rules of Procedure continue these matters, but what's interesting is the following. The minister has time to respond from 0 to 30 days. The minister can answer in one day. He doesn't have to answer in thirty days. In fact, a minister who thinks a little bit, he does. I've been sitting here myself in the back of the room as an interoperable minister, and I'm going to tell you a little bit later on this subject. Interpellation against me was filed sometime at the end of December 2012, and I responded to the interpretation within three days. The government immediately decided to do so and was in the National Assembly within less than seven days or five days of the intervention. At the same time, I have to say that I wasn't given another answer to the interpretation. It is clear from the Minister's response that many of the services have written this answer, that I know the style of writing most of these bosses who run these jobs today. The style of writing is clear, it's a can written by the police a little bit, a little bit of administrative internal affairs, and something by the Police Directorate and other security tasks. And the minister just read the matter. Well, it's nothing wrong, I wrote the answer myself, but he was here in, say, five days, about five, six; I don't know, here somewhere. What was I gonna do with that? I wanted to make it impossible for Members of the National Assembly, if I had responded to the interpretation within thirty days, to impose on them a number of other options, which may not have been the subject of interpretation. That's the kind of experience Mr. Kresal has had. She also had an interpretation, and I think most of the interior ministers, except for the first one, were in the process of interpolation. What happened to her? The fundamental evidence from the interpolation was the bulmastif and its role. It was a fundamental observation. But there was almost no talk or very little talk about the Bulmastifs, as data on the rental of the building of the NPU came out. And what happened – most of the readings went into the account of renting an NPU building. And the Messenger's Group really pulled the opposition and said, "No, we're not going to support the Minister." Of course, the then coalition stood firm — not as it is today — behind the minister’s actions. And the then coalition claimed that the minister had nothing to do with renting an NPU building. No, it's not the secretary's fault. We're behind her. That was sharp, so it was just something. What happened a year after that? A year after the delay of Mr Soltes at the Court of Auditors and Mr Klemenčič at the KPK, both great gentlemen held back under the weight of the evidence and said: "Yes, there was a corruption act." Uneconomy was, said Mr. Scholtes. And then the Minister stepped down. But the coalition stood firm for her. You stand for your minister, too! Then write what happens next to yourself. But, Minister, interpellation has been filed 24 times. 6. Why didn't you answer 26? Six, and we'd have a thing on the table on July 9th. And it could probably go a lot differently. But today you have problems with migrants and your role. It is not possible to avoid this, given that it took 30 days for you to break the answers of the services together, but the situation is that you will hear more today at the expense of migrants; but you must prescribe it to yourself. Let's get to the Haradinaj thing. Perhaps the public is now wondering, and the Prime Minister of the Government has made this known with some humiliating words to the opposition; in particular, the minister who now sees this attack on democracy. The attack on democracy was also in Kresal's case, but then it was corruption. You've seen how quickly it changes from attacking democracy to corruption. It's a long way off. People today don't even know who Haradinaj is. What's been going on in this case? Why are you doing this? Someone's gonna say it. The President of the government has also made that known. Let's solve this country's problems. That's constructive. We have no influence on this day. We have done our part, and if the Minister responds immediately, it would be already behind us; July 9th, 10th, it was all clear and complete. But since you used your maximum hands, we have a matter on the table today. So it's not the opposition, so we're not proposing that we deal with this today. It's just a fact. You've actually prevented your inactivity from happening earlier. So today it is not possible to expect that we will only talk about the Haradinaj issue, I will try to hold these matters, but I suppose the matter will go much wider. The situation is simply that we demand answers from the minister. But the minister says, or I could say, maybe she will, I've never seen Haradinaj before. I didn't see any signatures for the referendum, either, allegedly lost. I didn't have any in my hands, and I didn't see any, so I had to defend myself. The opposition at the time demanded my responsibility. Mr Jani Möderndorfer, then a general of 36 Members, was at this place where Mrs Kustec is today. [[advertising from the hall]] Can you imagine how he was screaming at me at the time; look, he's already grunting. I was responsible for the lost signatures, and I didn't have one in my hands, and I haven't seen one. Yeah, the situation is similar. You had nothing to do with him either, and I will describe these procedures in more detail later, but there is an objective responsibility. This is what we probably agree with Mr Möderndorfer, although he probably will not support the interpolation. Makes sense. Let's go to one fact. The facts you cannot challenge are that this gentleman was detained on 17 June 2015. I was just outside talking to Mr. Dobowski. You probably noticed that. He's not anybody's. He's not anybody's. I've been saying this since day one, when you were setting up the government, when I was wondering why the current interior minister was and why he wasn't. That's when I reminded you of that. Don't tell me I'm working today. We've been involved for 25, 30 years, I don't know how many, and I don't have any reason, and I didn't have one when he was a member of yours, and I don't have one today to communicate with him. But he also doesn't understand the technical situation that I said earlier that the Minister should make the headquarters and answer the question, and he doesn't understand it either. One computer, screens across Europe and comes to Slovenia one data, there comes another data. He doesn't understand that either. I don't, but he teaches crime in America, England, Berlin, and I don't know where everything is, and he doesn't understand it. [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Ferluga, head to headquarters and help the minister explain this. The situation is clear. The person was arrested for the miracle that happened. The information came to Ljubljana that it was necessary to receive it, but the information went to all other capitals that it did not. That's a weird thing to do. All the other things, the conventions, the articles, the trolls, you don't explain this to me. You explain to me the simple situation of how this miracle is possible, that's all. The court will release him after two days. Mrs Kustec sees something positive in that they blocked our products or that they said they would not buy Slovenian products. That's interesting. I don't know where those products went. The political consequences – there is no point in talking, but others will talk about it. The minister says the police are the organ in the body; indeed, thanks to me, I insisted on this in 1998, when we wrote the first law. The police were working under the law. Okay. The police carried out technical tasks, everything else is a matter of justice, says the minister. The thugs are a matter of court. The police have nothing to do with it, and the secretary has nothing to do with it, right? God damn it, explain to me one more time that model I said before, how is it possible? Madam Minister, I'm going to propose the withdrawal of the interpolation. How is it possible that a different information came to Ljubljana from the same computer about the same person who had the same passport? Why didn't they get it in Berlin, London, Paris or anywhere else? We're the only ones who got him. If you can explain this phenomenon, we'll be done soon. The Serbian President, so the president of the country who is supposed to be looking for him, says: "No, we have nothing to do with this, it was not our tyrant, it was another country's tyrant, something strange is going on in Ljubljana." That's what the Serbian President, the President of the State, says. Isn't that all interesting?Oh, my God! If the minister cannot say or accept objective responsibility – because she is not subjective because she was not behind the computer and did not order it, we can agree – I would like to clarify only one thing: who in Slovenia made a mistake? Police? You're saying no. The secretary says she's not responsible. Is that Mr. Klemenčič? Are these his officers? I allow the possibility, please tell me, we'll file an interpellation against him if the mistake was made there. I'd rather have an interpretation against him, because he's doing more harm than Mrs. Minister. She does less damage with inactions and it would be better if Mr Klemenčič was interpeeled. There have been other miracles with us. First, a miracle called How is it possible to receive it in Slovenia but not elsewhere? It's supposed to be all legal. Then we have another miracle. Mr Erjavec – I think he is still in the hall – brings a letter to the court and says, "Let him go, please." If I did this, what effect would that have on justice? Would that have an impact on justice? Uh, in five minutes, there'd be an interpolation, not in half an hour. He brings a piece of paper there and says, "Let him go, that's what I got from downstairs." The assumption is, how is it possible to release a person on the basis of a single piece of paper coming from Kosovo when the act of torture is in force?Oh, my God! Following this logic, we in Slovenia will arrest some serious international criminal from South America, then a piece of South America will come, Mr Erjavec will take him to court, and the court will release him. Isn't that a funny story? That's a funny story. What's more, a third miracle. "I don't admit this court." Who said that? We know who said that. But that's exactly what Mr. Klemenčič said. The minister said he wouldn't admit to the court. Before the court ruled at all, he said, "Well, well, things have to be settled, even if the court says we have to deliver it, I will not allow it." The minister says he won't respect the court's decision. See, that's a third miracle. Mrs Murgel may be able to explain how this is going; she will probably be able to explain how this is going. How that doesn't affect the court if the minister says, "I won't respect the court's decision." You'll probably be able to explain that, I believe you'll know. How is it possible that the Minister won't admit the court's decision? If Dr. Lovro Sturm, uh, oh, how long would it take to interpolate – two days? I think it's less. Minister, I have to go a little wider. You're afraid of yourself, and then outside you explain how you guarantee the safety of citizens, and that I'm the one who's putting fear in their bones. No, you're afraid of yourself. Since 2000, we have had Bohinca – Minister of SD, left political option; Mateja – our minister; Kresalovo – left political option; Zalar – left political option then me; behind me, Mr Virant – you do not know what it is. We just know what it was. A multipractice would say. All these ministers had the same security team, and the minister's got six guards. From the year 2000 to your arrival, I know very little change. If someone went somewhere or wanted something like that – yes, and in principle, the team stayed the same. When the minister arrived – goodbye everyone, so did the President of the Government. So you're afraid of yourself or someone. As Minister, I did not allow any influence on who would protect me or other ministers, even though Mr Erjavec had his wishes; but I had to tell him that the wishes would not be realized. And you're saying that you have no influence on the police, that the police are autonomous and professional, that they work by law. By what law did you order the exchange of all security guards? Please take note of this question. Tell me, under what law did you request the exchange of all security guards? There is no such law, even if gentlemen are looking at the headquarters of Litostrojski 54. There's a headquarters there now, you know, helping the secretary. That's right, that's what every minister has, and I had such a headquarters there that he tries to prepare data at the time of the Members' appearances to serve the Minister. It's okay to have such headquarters there, there's no problem here, and I had it. But they won't find this marriage because it's gone. Madam Minister, you're afraid of yourself; but you're talking about protecting citizens. It's not going together. I don't have any fear for the citizens. I don't have any fear for my future citizens. They can be scared because we think you're the secretary, and that's what they're afraid of. You are now talking about how you have dealt with the European Commissioner for Migration; he is Greek. If I met him, I would ask him first - Commissioner, you are coming from Greece, why hasn't your country been conducting Schengen for years? He doesn't even perform it. Commissioner, how is that?Oh, my God! That's what I'd ask him. You presented to him what Slovenia is doing; and he praised you, funny. That's funny! Then you say that he praised you – and also praised the President of the Government – also the President of the European Commission Jean-Claude Juncker. What did he tell Orban? "The dictator is coming," Orban said. I wouldn't brag a lot about him. I can't say what I did last night. Did you tell him the truth about Slovenia – you did not. But it is true that the Prime Minister of the Government changed rhetoric yesterday. He behaved very properly in Brussels, his statements were very correct and he took into account what I had warned him yesterday; he took into account and seemed right to me from him. I'm not going to talk about those salaries anymore and all those things; you've been talking about how you're going to take care of how you're going to handle the status of a police officer and so on. I believe the naive part of the police is applauding you. He also rounded up a draft law that provides for higher salaries for police officers, police allowances and so on. I can wish you a lot of success in this. This will be prevented by soldiers, firefighters, paramedics and others. They'll stop you, you'll see, and I'll say yes. But at the end of the day, nothing will happen. You have to know that. I'm not going to have a lot of you at lunch because after all, it can happen, and I'm going to tell the minister, and I believe it can happen. It's important how it goes. But the situation is that this minister is cost-effective, and here I have to commend her. I am on that parliamentary question that I had last around the team, where, for example, the representatives of three ministers – Erjavac, Jew and someone else, Mrs Katičeva – would be enough for three months of free food there, for all Members, all 90. Madam Minister, she is cost-effective, very, very much to be commended. But I miss asylum law where it is. Did you bring any laws to tighten the conditions? The majority of European Ministers of Interior or competent ministers have already brought them to Parliament. The Germans already have it, we don't have it yet. Your Directorate of Internal Affairs isn't working on this, either. You haven't ordered anything to do yet, and that's your responsibility. But I don't agree with you in the part where you say – I'm for Brussels, I don't know what, I'm for those up there; I'm for those up there; I'm for the Chief at home. No, it's not. If I had to decide between going to Brussels or staying home for a matter, I stayed home and the Secretary of State went there. Because you told me yesterday how you handled the quotas perfectly. I'd rather be home, even if I were in front of the cameras or not; you didn't have to go to Brussels; because I said yesterday that you didn't take care of anything, nothing. But not your fault, it's not your fault. What did the Slovaks say? The Slovak Prime Minister said: As long as I am Prime Minister, there will be no quotas. Got it. I will sue the European Commission. He sues the European Commission for quotas. The same will now apply to Poland, Romania and others. So, from that deal, not your fault, it's not gonna happen. So you didn't say anything. You still haven't put on the table – and you couldn't do it yesterday because you also had to sleep, I agree with you – all the other plans that I was talking about yesterday: the military, the help from Europe to protect the southern borders; the possible protection of the southern borders, if the situation continues. Five hundred thousand of them are on their way. How many will come to us? How do we stop them? How's the border going to work? Those plans are still missing. Otherwise, I'd say if you didn't answer that previous question that it would be better for you to step down. There have been cases like this before. The Minister of Economy, later Dean of the Faculty of Economics, resigned during the interpellation, in 1996, dealing with what was already written in Forget. [[...]] I hope you are already discussing the answer to that key question; it is a miracle. One computer, ten screens and different data. From where? You'll say the police are autonomous, I won't interfere politically. Believe me, in my day, the Law on the Organization and Work of the Police was created. I'm going to allow myself to know him because I also defended him in this National Assembly. Article 3 specifies exactly what the ministry is, what the police are, what are the tasks of one, what is another. What if the police are an organ in the system, and it's a good thing it is. However, Article 4 speaks of the direction of the police. You can direct the police. Directions, such and different, you can give to the police at any time. You can also monitor the police. There's no record of the police, including a cover-up of investigative measures that the minister shouldn't have known. These are powerful powers. You can supervise the police. You may specify Article 6 any control. In Article 10, however, you have the power to impose measures to remedy the situation if you have detected irregularities. These are powerful powers. But it is, in my opinion, a key article 12. With Article 12, I had the biggest problems as Minister of the Interior when I defended him. That's just the way it is in politics. Mr Möderndorfer's party has been most difficult for me here. What does Article 12 say? Article 12 states what the Minister must be informed of immediately. There are no written acts, nothing; but just a phone and a message to the minister. That's what it says in Article 12. And one of the things in this article is that the Minister must be informed immediately and immediately about events that could have a great impact in the public. With regard to this article, I ask you, when were you informed? "We know when the arrest was. When were you informed, and how did you act? How did you react to the police when you were informed? Why do I ask you that? I ask you because I know the sender of a famous day in a known way of communication, it was my computer or e-mail, from Litostroske 54, this is your seat, by email messages like this: "Maybe only in the knowledge of the following information. On the subject of Mr Haradinaj's detention, Secretary Andrej Spang gave all the instructions on the phone. And the Minister was informed of all the events much later. Otherwise, this is also my personal opinion," I now speak with all the verbal errors, "that this interpellation is more of a cosmetic correction in relation to Kosovo. It would be hard to talk about the responsibility of a minister for such a complication. Earlier on, however, I would have deserved an interpellation for not leading the ministry in its entirety, as it is actually being led by Mr Šefic and Mr Špenga. In particular, this ministry is headed by Mr. Chief." It's a little awkward now, but it matches the way I talk about how much you go to work, it matches that one. And it matches the fact that you're nowhere and that Mr. Boss is actually running the house. Mr Boss and I are nothing friends, I have no problem with anything but positive communication, especially because we once had the Owl case where he was; and all those affairs there that we had during that period. [[…]] In short, we have no positive communication, but we communicate officially, officially here at the National Assembly. I have to be honest with you that he'd be shorter to see that he's a minister, because he is one way or another. I expect that, given this information, you will not send the police to get my laptop to find out who sent this to me. It doesn't make sense because I have to tell you that this laptop is already at the municipal landfill in Rogaška Slatina. Because he died in my midst, and he got my ax, just in case. Each minister shall also have the opportunity to withdraw at the time of the interpolation. And I suggest you step down. Again, I suggest you explain to me the miracle: one computer, many screens, the same person, the same passport, and from now on the miracle in Ljubljana – it must be captured. Why didn't these miracles happen anywhere else? Ladies and gentlemen, I will propose the withdrawal of the interpretation if the Minister answers the question I have asked. This is a very clear matter. I'll keep my word, but let the secretary answer. But I am talking about proposing to the Group of Members. Let the minister answer where this miracle occurred. If he knows that, along with the experts, I'll do it, or there's a chance you'll step back, otherwise we'll support the interpellation. I believe the coalition supports you, and there is a high probability that you will remain a minister. It was the same with Mrs Kresal, but, ladies and gentlemen, since every minister, each coalition must attribute its decisions to itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Jurša will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u28	Vice President, thank you for your word. Maybe for a brief introduction and an apology. For this speaker, my predecessor has deceived those who read a position; but I must say that we have different habits among the groups of Members. And I'm gonna tell these habits here too. When the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia is written, it is received by all Members and Members, they have the option to comment and then we form a final position with amendments. What custom do you have? That's your problem. We stand for the Minister, as we have stood for every minister who has been intertwined so far. Madam Minister, don't make it difficult for you, you have the tenth jubilee interpretation of the interior minister in this Chamber or in Slovenia alone. And that also counts for something. Today we have the first interpretation of the work and responsibility of any minister and minister of this government. I have to say from the outset, it seems to me that everything seems excessive and even unfounded. After all, we are wasting quite a bit of time sitting in these benches almost until midnight because we have a lot of time to talk about these issues. We are facing the greatest refugee crisis since World War II. The Slovenian police are fully prepared and carrying out their tasks in a professional and self-sacrificing manner, which we must also congratulate on behalf of our Group of Members. As a result, the Minister has a number of other more important tasks these days, and today he has to spend time with us and respond to the interpretation that is directly linked to the work of the police, who carry out their work in a manner that is evident under all the laws of law. We can talk about the partial objective responsibility of Minister Vesna Györkös Žnidar, but interpellation is an excessive measure. In the Desus Group, we already regretted the unloving event, but it is important to stress that it was a routine police procedure; not a policy. I would not like to repeat the whole event in detail, but it seems important to me to mention that the situation was officially resolved as soon as possible after the intervention of Foreign Minister Karl Erjavac. A diplomatic passport has been returned to the former Kosovo Prime Minister, thus allowing him to continue his journey towards his country. We believe that, given the rapid and effective action of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, friendly relations between Slovenia and the Republic of Kosovo are not threatened or threatened by economic cooperation between the countries. In her reply to the interpolation, the Minister replied unequivocally and comprehensively to all the actions made, so I will point out only a few facts that indicate that today's interpolation is only about a public performance under the tactics of the largest opposition party. During the police procedure, Mr Haradinaj did not refer to diplomatic immunity, nor did the Slovenian police have any information on the transit of Kosovo's special diplomatic mission. It is true that the passenger had a diplomatic passport with a tourist visa, but he did not submit any other document to prove his special status to the police. The police carried out their task with respect to the current international prosecutor and brought the person before an investigative judge. It should also be noted that no coercive measures were used at the time of the person’s apprehension. The person was already in contact with the Embassy of the Republic of Kosovo in Brno. Now tell me how the police should know that Mr. Haradinaj enjoys the privileges and immunity of a diplomat if he did not invoke diplomatic immunity alone. It also follows from international law that the diplomatic passport in force does not yet automatically imply diplomatic immunity. Also, the person, I stress once again, has not referred once in the proceedings to a special status. Let me get on with it. The Embassy of the Republic of Kosovo sent a diplomatic note to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs the following day and informed them that the person was returning from a special diplomatic mission abroad. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs immediately acted and informed the District Court in Kranj that the application for release was justified and requested that the person be returned to the passport and allow for the continuation of the journey. And that's how the whole story was over. The Lord traveled to the house — the end of the good, all the good. Do you think that's really a big enough reason for the Minister's interpretation?Oh, my God! I find it very difficult to believe that one of the candidates really thinks that it is the Minister's subjective and political responsibility and that, as a result, he suffers the international reputation of Slovenia, that economic cooperation between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Kosovo is at risk. We're not sure about the Desus Group. But we are increasingly aware that SDS applicants wanted only to politically spice up the celebration of Statehood Day, as the interpellation was put right on the eve of the holiday. This mess with Kosovo's politics just came right for investors. In the Desus Group, we believe that the Minister is a mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar in her response to the interpolation provided clear, unequivocal answers to the interpolation against her work and responsibility, and we will also support her in this matter. But of course, we can't support interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar, ministerial assembly, colleagues and colleagues! In the views of the parliamentary groups, we have heard a great deal today, which is not a proposal for interpretation, but in our position, the Social Democrats will be defined only on the content of the interpretation that has been tabled, and we will follow the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Interpellation is the requirement of at least ten Members to hold a debate in the National Assembly on a certain political issue from the Supreme Executive Body or on the work of the Government or of the individual minister. It is an institution enshrined in Article 118 of the Constitution. On the basis of this Institute, 21 Members and Members of the largest opposition SDS Group have prepared today's material; however, it seems to us that it is clearly in serious haste. It would be strange if we didn't take advantage of this institute after a year of government rule. Allow me to update what the drafters of the Group of Social Democrats have prepared. Interpellation on the work and responsibility of the Minister of the Interior, Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar due to police procedure at border controls at Ljubljana airport 17. 6. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Interpellators tell the minister that the police have illegally received the former Kosovo Prime Minister and the President of the Union for the Future of Kosovo, Ramush Haradinaj, at the border inspection of that day. The reason for this particular event and the resulting written interpretation concerns the 2004 Serbian tyranny relating to war crimes in connection with the 1998-1999 Kosovo conflict. The five-point speakers shall state the reasons for the discharge and shall, in summary, refer to the irregularity in the implementation of Article 2 of the Treaty between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Serbia on extradition. Second, the suspension of the duty to exercise control over the implementation of the Law on State Border Control while taking into account the provisions of Article 29 and Article 42 of the United Nations Convention on Special Missions. Thirdly, a decrease in the reputation of the Republic of Slovenia in the international public, the political and economic consequences arising from the illegal deprivation of liberty and the restriction of Haradinaj's movement due to non-compliance with and ignorance of international treaties in implementation. Fourthly, due to political damage in relations with the Republic of Kosovo. Petič; due to the economic damage caused to Slovenian companies. Dear colleagues and colleagues, on the 14th page of the small and concentrated text is the answer of the Minister of the Interior. It is explained why these findings are unfounded at individual points and completely rejects them. We are convinced that the Minister will reiterate why these allegations are unfounded and will further explain why the police have acted professionally and legally in this particular case. Regardless of the debates and arguments, we believe that the debate will develop and turn to another topic. After 17 June 2015, when the police carried out border checks at the airport and detained Haradinaj in this procedure, and after 24. 6. 2015, when the applicants prepared and tabled the interpretation, the media were no longer paying attention to this topic. After a quick review of the world’s online hits on this event, there was not much; the dust quickly receded. Perhaps there will be news today or an article tomorrow, yes; perhaps on Monday in one of the weeks there will be a multilateral comment. Social Democrats are estimated to have misdirected the intervention of the day before the State holiday, diverting attention from the state holiday of Statehood. Your Honor! In our dear Republic of Slovenia, there have been many events in the past 25 years, not only to us Social Democrats, but also to others who are not proud. And he also left a bitter taste on the international, political and economic floor – from the deleted to the infamous European troikas in Slovenia and to the constant impression that everything is wrong in Slovenia. Perhaps we can look here for reasons to reduce Slovenia's reputation in the political and economic sphere. We have examined the Interpellation, the proposal by the proposer and the Minister's reply, and on the basis of all of this, we have decided not to support the interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u31	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the interpretation. Ms Anja Bah Žibert has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Chairman. You're gonna have to listen to me a little more today. I hope that you will at least listen to the debate; if you do not, close your ears, because you are not hearing enough what you should hear. Otherwise, Mr Cerar is no longer in the Chamber, but respected colleagues and other members of the government as well; I must strongly and with all condemnation reject the allegations made by the President of the Government. You can also see this in the magnetogram, he said that everything in the interpolation is not true. I seriously wonder where we are taking this country, if it is led by people who have responded in such a flat and literal manner to the specific arguments given in the interpretation. I just don't understand that Dr. Miro Cerar, President of the Government, allows you to perform such an unprepared and flat-rate performance. Otherwise, in this brief explanation of his full support to the minister, who was not really concrete in anything, he said something more than worrying. He said: I trust the Minister today and also in the future. Yeah, what are we gonna do?Oh, my God! If something important happens tomorrow, for which the Minister will not only be objectively revealed today, but also subjectively responsible; and will our country face a worse, much worse threat than today – will she still be a minister?Oh, my God! It's because Prime Minister Cerar has already announced in advance that he trusts her in the future. That's great. Yes, please. In some ways, this probably confirms that friendship is stronger than the interests of the State and also than what is good for the country. But despite the fact that the honourable President of the Government trusts her in the future, we will be in opposition, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, constantly and constantly alerted when our laws are broken, when our constitution is violated, and when the rule of law is threatened. But what's interesting is that the government is run by a law doctor. And there is something else that Mr Cerar has stated that this interpretation is at an entirely inappropriate time; the doctor obviously does not even know the procedures in the National Assembly. The Slovenian Democratic Party shall decide when the interpretation will take place, or the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall speak about it. And one more thing, if Madam Minister were to be able to prepare her reply at least once faster than Mr Gorenak did when she did, the interpolation could be dealt with at the July session. But that's the way it is. The secretary took 30 days, and the interpretation is on the agenda today, but that's not why. Here I have to agree with my opposition colleagues, the United Left. I am sure that interpellation is also at the right time so that there will be no harm done by the Minister in her work or, I can say, by the week. Let me take a brief look at the Minister of the Interior's interpretations or answers. She told us that in the interpretation that was presented today, we talked about everything else, like the content that was the subject of the interpretation; and that it was an account that relates to some other current topics. Minister, read what you stated at the end, that you are being intertwined because you are successfully working to be intertwined because you do and do much for the good of Slovenian police. Where were you when we discussed the reports on the Slovenian police for the past year; where were you when we were wondering why there were no police unions on the boards to tell us their problems? Why, though, did you deal so shamefully with the police who warned them that they were literally in trouble and that they were hungry at the borders? That's what you were talking about, and I was talking about the Haradinaj problem. Today, I, as well as my respected colleague Gorenak, have asked quite a few specific questions for you, but you prefer to chat. Okay, well, that's your responsibility and your attitude. But you couldn't answer a single question. Please answer how Mr. Haradinaj crossed the border 50 times and was never detained. How is it that, according to your information, Interpol and the D.A. were justified? How was it that no procedure had been carried out that would eventually lead to the surrender of a person? Don't nod. The fact is, you violated the convention. The fact is that the convention was violated and then somehow smoothed it out and saved the Foreign Minister. These are facts, and it is an objective responsibility. Deal with it. In short, if things were actually so simple and everything we allowed ourselves to write under these arguments in the Slovenian Democratic Party, then I don't know why so much time for your answer. Otherwise, the answer was virtually nothing. The fact is, you do not answer any specific questions. And that you are not responsible for economic damage because this does not belong to your department; that you are not responsible for the threat of people who have been threatened; I have given you specific relevant information about the state of the Slovenian army in Kosovo. That's not true, Minister. You're part of the government. Who's responsible if not you? But now you will do stupid things, and then you will raise your hands and say, "Ah, because I am not responsible for this, but the consequences will come." No, you're responsible. And thank God it didn't come to any sacrifice. Thank God. And one more thing. You said earlier that this interpolation was not on behalf of the people. What's her name, Madam Secretary?Oh, my God! That's what you owe me. I am sitting in this Parliament on the basis of a decision by the electorate and the electorate. You, as far as I'm concerned, are sitting in this place for friendly relationships. So don't make any sense that the interpretation isn't on behalf of the people. And it is precisely the responsibility and duty of the National Assembly, which is also required by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the Rules of Procedure, to interpellate when serious violations are committed. And they were with you, if that's how you want to avoid them. And one more thing. The Prime Minister said you have a lot to do with the refugee problem now. Now I don't know who doesn't know the matter – either you or the Prime Minister. As far as we know, the Foreign Minister's coordination committee is in charge, and you've already been removed from there. As I understand it, you gave your position or answers yesterday that you somehow entrusted this refugee issue to your secretary. So what are you doing in this crisis situation? How many times have we heard you in the media, your statements have been brief, absolutely no calming; on the other hand, you want the Slovenian Democratic Party to attribute that our statements are impatient and endanger security, even though you are dealing with the police yourself when you most need your support. Therefore, do not read what you do alone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u33	The Minister of Magic has the floor. Vesna Györkös Žnidar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u34	Thank you, Vice President. Regardless of the constructive spirit in which Mr Gorenak concluded, I am very pleased that today, unlike yesterday, we are discussing very constructively. However, I still cannot help but feel that this interpretation has been misused, because the deadline for the reply I have been given cannot justify that the interpretation at the time of the investment has not actually been justified. Today, we draw what should actually be crystal clear from the scars here. I believe that the reason for the interpretation of prima facie must be clear, so it is clear at first sight. When I watch public discourse, the reason for the interpretation is actually changing from hour to hour. We started at Haradinaj; now that the interpolation is approaching, we get new phenomena all the time; like the virus mutates. It started with an analysis of my public media performances, although I'm not a pianist, I'm a minister, and then we came to supply the police with food. I also explained that at the outset there were certain logistical complications and that we were solving this, which is also normal for such an exceptional situation to lead to smaller leaps in such a large system. Of course, we did it the other way and immediately. The last reason I heard him this morning before I came to this esteemed National Assembly is because I don't go to work. Apparently, that was also mentioned. I don't think that's real, that's put it mildly. I'll get to the beginning of the interpolation when you wanted to explain it to the Prime Minister, Dr. Mir Cerar. Ramush Haradinaj was not detained. He was only deprived of his liberty and this is a big difference, because here you do not separate between the detention governed by the Criminal Procedure Act, which must be under specified conditions and actually ordered by the investigating judge. Or if you think a police officer has committed a crime in view of the fact that the unlawful seizure of liberty is a crime of his own. Again, what you really want is not clear here. The police don't take it in, the judge orders it. This is not even possible, as was initially claimed. As far as the name of the country which has called for an international warrant is concerned. Here you have forgotten the institute, which I believe the President of the National Assembly, Dr. Brglez, knows well what he is told – Serbia's legal legacy. In this segment, too, the chain is not broken and this observation is unfounded. It was mentioned that I wasn't on the board. If I was never on the board, I'm sure that's why there was a valid reason. Yesterday we had the opening part or the first part of this interpolation, as Mr Möderndorfer, the honourable Member, found. In fact, we explained yesterday what is the difference between managing the station and communicating with the public. Ambassador Gorenak described in a very graphic way that three times a day we should perform as Jelko Kacin. I also responded that perhaps not in the sweatpants as it was yesterday somehow understood from all of this. And that, in fact, does not measure the success of the department. My public appearance is not crucial to measuring the success of the department. The success of the focal point is seen in the response, in the current situation, to migratory pressures, and I am sure that we are successful at doing so. This is recognised by the constructive Slovenian public and also by the whole of Europe. And once again, I am not going to collect political points for myself in this situation, because right now by showing up in the field – I was on the ground, not the first day on purpose, because I know that our boys have a very responsible task and that would only complicate logistics in the field. I think it's more appropriate to have the first police director-general on the ground, who is the first police officer and also heads the police. I don't run the police, it's headed by the police general, Mr. Marjan Funk. At this point, I think I am playing a more responsible role than caring for my own political image. Commenting is not a minister's job either. The minister's task is to coordinate the Ministry's response and I think we have been more than successful. Yesterday we also explained, honourable Member, the difference between the operational group operating within the Ministry of the Interior, led by the Secretary of State, Mr Boštjan Šefic, whom I also charged with having to perform every second hour of press conferences precisely because the public is informed. For him too, given his high status may not be appropriate, but he is a high-ranking official who replaces me to perform every day in front of the media, but we have decided that this is important because I have even more important tasks in the background. However, I think that this cascading arrangement – Minister, Secretary of State and so on – can be understood and accepted as a credible argument. You also mentioned the group led by Mr Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs. Yesterday, one of our Members explained what this group's raid was. The group's raid is to connect all relevant actors, i.e. NGOs, local communities, resources, at the political level, and to take a European approach. This is a European problem and is therefore being led by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. If it were led by me, it would probably be the first obvious that we are criminalising refugees, given that the Minister of the Interior, who is responsible for security, is leading a group that is addressing the refugee crisis. The honourable Member, the basic movement in the background is a humanitarian problem, and therefore we approach this issue with all seriousness and sensitivity so that everything you perceive as a mistake is the other way around. The talk was about what we are actually negotiating at the level of the European Union. Here I must explain that, once again in the implementation of the Member of the United Left, I see that it does not understand certain relations, which is perfectly understandable, given that this is a very complex problem and that it also has one history. One historical memory is needed here, and in fact it is not possible to throw in the same basket a permanent mechanism that is supposed to apply in the future, this will only be the subject of a legislative procedure that we are not yet discussing, the so-called mandatory quotas, and the current distribution of persons who obviously need international protection and are still voluntary. It is in the spirit of solidarity that Slovenia has agreed to the distribution of 40,000 people from these countries and also to the Commission's further proposal, because we believe that this is necessary. It is true, however, that the distribution of persons across the Member States of the European Union is not a solution to the problem, it is also necessary to solve the problem at the external borders of the European Union, and indeed to do everything possible to ensure that Europe incurs migration flows, to be more manageable and also spread to crisis countries, to actually address the structural reasons for migration together, which means that internal and external policies need to be linked. If we don't connect at this point, then it won't be good for anyone. I would also like to remind the Member of the United Left, who is no longer in the Chamber, that this is a political trap – even for Slovenia, if we are saying that Slovenia is returning refugees. Slovenia does not return refugees. We never did, and we never will, because a fugitive is a person who, after a certain procedure, gets status. Only economic migrants or those who can return to their home country are returning because they are not at risk. So I also really call on this national assembly not to talk about Slovenia returning refugees, that the police are returning them, because we are not doing this, because this is actually international damage to our country. The humanitarian corridors were also mentioned. I also explained yesterday that this does not exist in European Union law or under national law. If Slovenia were to allow this to happen, so that it would actively work towards directing the people who come to us to the other Member States of the Schengen area, this would be very unfair. However, I already said yesterday that it is possible – not to cause problems to other countries – that countries accept a certain number of people if they choose to do so, so we are also working on having very good relations with neighbouring countries and actually opening the way for a future constructive agreement. There was much to be said, but I would also like to answer Mr Gorenak, given that he has raised certain questions that should be essential at this time. The situation is a little more complex than just one computer and ten, as you said, ten screens. In fact, I don't need experts to explain it either, but I'm going to be very systematic to be understandable. The fact is that regulation is different in other Member States and that it is also in fact the sovereign right of each country to decide on the extradition procedure. Like I said, it can't be decided by a police officer. When the national central bureau executes a search call on the global database of wanted persons, it shall, as I have said at the outset, carry out a verification at the General Secretariat of Interpol to verify that the search has a racial, political, religious character if they find that this is so, they delete and inform other Member States thereof. However, countries can still enter their national system on the basis of bilateral relations and, most importantly, despite the fact that a particular person is actually registered on a global basis of wanted persons, it is the decision itself whether to carry out tendering activities or whether, in fact, in the final stage, extradition of a person will take place entirely in the discretion of each individual country. This is the legal opinion of the General Secretariat of Interpol and Interpol in this particular case, and it has not applied. In fact, the tyranny is only a reason to check whether there are grounds for extradition, while the decision-making authority is in all the countries in the justice domain. The police are doing the so-called technical work you have already ordered in your implementation. However, the prerequisite for acting against a person is for a border officer to exercise control and decide to look into the tyrannical registry. While it is true that Haradinaj traveled several times across borders within the Schengen area, why so, it depends on the procedure of every policeman who does his work thoroughly. In addition, it is also important in this respect what is the accessibility of the search register. Slovenia has this firmly arranged. I believe that you are well aware of this direct integration of the bases and is, in fact, a subject of good practice in the framework of Interpol. Interpol is set out in Article 7. 5. 2009 stated that the integration of the organisation's databases into the national police system in Slovenia highlights the great commitment and importance our government is committed to protecting its borders and citizens against terrorists and other criminals and sends a strong message to the global criminal community that the possibilities for their identification and detention in Slovenia are very, very large. Our officers can also look directly at the data for international searches when they are controlled. In short, our system is effective, as has been shown in the past in similar cases. But for every diplomat, there are specific procedures for establishing a diplomatic path. This, however, is not done with a tourist visa. In Slovenia, we will adhere to the Schengen Code and the police will continue to carry out their statutory tasks and hope that the police will continue to be so effective in their work. But all those who have international searches recorded will also have to make sure that their status is regulated in the future. If that's enough for you, I can continue and explain to you the entire integration of the bases. I don't think that's necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Ms. Anja Bah Žibert, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u36	Dear Minister, thank you for the answers that have not been answered. But I'm going from the beginning. You've read to me that I've evaluated your performances in terms of money. No, Minister, I've evaluated your content performances for which you are responsible. Will you deny today that you are not responsible for what you say? The fact is, you've dealt with the police at the time that this was most inappropriate, and the Minister of the Interior should not have allowed that. Whether you're wearing a sweatpants or your favorite costume. You also said something even more worrying about how he would act. Yes, please. What does that mean? That it is up to the police, whether terrorists come to Slovenia or not, or that every police officer, in his own opinion, would be worth keeping this person or not. Minister, you're talking nonsense. And lastly, you are talking about that everything was fine in your process, but Mr. Haradinaj did not cross the border of Slovenia for the first time at that time. Yeah, how come he wasn't already held up? Unusual. In all other countries, the tyranny has been withdrawn and not in Slovenia. And one more thing. You say that the purpose or purpose of this interpolation is to raise points politically. Since when are Kosovo citizens citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in order to win elections? But the problem is that we are losing political points in the international public with your work. We are losing political points in our relations with the countries we still need. That's the problem, Minister. We have clearly told you in your interpretation what you are responsible for. And that's true. When you mentioned again how organized work is, you hold it even more so that you have enough time to do other things, because everything is as it should be. It's not like that! Just look at the stupidities you have been doing in the logistics part of preparation or activities related to the refugee problem. First you didn't let the police eat, then you attacked them, then the local guests prepared food for them, then you prevented them from doing so at their expense, and then you prevented them from doing so. You prevented us from doing this. Thus, you have also prevented voluntary work and the assistance of citizens to other citizens. Finally, your telephone devices burned so badly that in one day you removed this directive. This is your way of working — you do not know who drinks and who pays. And it's because you're not capable of running this ministry.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Please, if we are in line with the Rules of Procedure, then we would not be talking about what happened after 24 June when the interpolation was introduced. Many of you went to the debate today to continue yesterday's debate, and I do not think that this contributes to the correct image. Interpellation was not completed after June 24th. This is true for everyone, not only for certain reasons, because normally Mr Tanko will announce himself in this regard, this is the case for the left and right, if I may say so. Mrs. Anya Bah Žibert, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u38	Procedurally. Dear President, I have spoken mainly about the events related to Haradinaj in the interpretation, which you can also read from the magnetogram. However, the President of the Government, and then the Minister in his reply, in particular, pointed out that the interpretation or reason for the interpolation was completely different. And you've begun to delve into the matter of refugee issues and how we're burdening the Minister. That's why I was obliged to respond and respond. So please give this warning to those who caused it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u39	I was clear, the warning wasn't meant for you, it was meant for all the debaters, I'll say again, both left and right, because on both sides it was happening, without distinction, and it wasn't meant for you alone. However, the minister was so kind that she also responded to what she was not obliged to answer. Mrs. Anita Kolesh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u40	Madam Minister, distinguished President, esteemed colleague and colleague! At the time of her appointment, the Minister probably did not imagine that she would face such fateful and important problems. At the moment, it is faced with significantly more difficult matters, such as this interpretation, in fact, with challenges that are also facing our country, for the ministry and also for the police. I have no problem in mentioning this, because it is actually funny that we are dealing with some kind of interpolation at this time, although this central matter, which the applicant mentions in relation to this accusation, as was said, is in fact a very illustrative responsibility to waive the obligation to act in the exercise of State border control. I've read very carefully what you wrote in your answer. I must say, the answers are very weighty. Mr Gorenak said that she is a glue to the different answers of people she knows very well in your ministry. And in the same breath, he actually said you changed everything. So now I don't know who wrote this to you, or those who were replaced, or those who are still yours. Personally, I think you have a lot of good co-workers, and of course it is also right that every job is done. But given that it's almost meaningless to talk about the reasons we're against for this interpolation to be successful, it's still necessary to go through again what is evident to you, because I think it's the only thing we can do here. Let us take a look at why or how the minister should leave the duty of border control. I would say that it is the responsibility of the police, in accordance with Slovenian legislation, which is based on the state border control law, to the gentleman who wrote Ramush Haradinaj, to carry out a thorough border control. Therefore, the identification on the basis of the documents submitted, and the procedure also includes verification by a reader of travel documents or travel documents. It is the minister's first responsibility that the border police officer acted in accordance with the law. Furthermore, following the finding that Mr Haradinaj is burning the so-called Interpol Red Notice, the police immediately carried out an additional review of the validity of the international search measure. That the police have also waited for feedback on the invitation to tender or on the alert and found that Serbia has confirmed the validity of the measure — Serbia was a tenderer for this act — and that it is clear that the act of torture is in force, that up to 1. 1. 2049. Furthermore, the Minister is, of course, guilty that the police have allowed the gentleman, now that it was clear that an international tyranny had been issued behind him, to carry out several phone calls, the desired communication. And, of course, Mr Haradinaj took advantage of that. Finally, because of the fact that, under the law on criminal proceedings, the Lords to whom the current international tyranny was issued led to a hearing with the investigating judge. So we're accusing the minister of her lawful conduct by her police officers. And if we stay in law, even though it was said not to talk to me about those conventions and so on. Yeah, sure, what are we talking about? About the legality of procedures. The applicants say that the United Nations Convention on Special Missions has been violated. He probably knows a lot between you and him when the special mission function begins. Once the members or representatives of the mission have made official contact with the Foreign Ministry. There was no mission. Nor has the police received any notice and the charges of violation of this Convention is entirely irrelevant. But this part of the story is actually interesting for ending the story. When the reason for the release of the diplomat and the return of his passport by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was a note of an appropriate confirmation that Mr Haradinaj was on a mission, this gentleman was released or returned to him. This was again decided by the court in Kranj. An interesting question is why this gentleman did not refer to some diplomatic immunity and some special status privilege. Why, then, did he travel through our country only with a diplomatic passport? What does diplomatic passport mean, you don't have to explain, almost all of you probably have it. I'd say one more thing is interesting. Because, after the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, diplomats really enjoy inviolability and immunity, but you have to refer to it, it is interesting that if you are on a private trip, and no one is paying attention to it. And the gentleman had a tourist visa, so to speak, you could say he was on a private trip. It is not so relevant to this debate, but it is about discussing all of the relevant or important reasons that have been behind the border procedure. We can, of course, argue about why we do not have a national base system across from Interpol in Slovenia. Since they have it in some places, the said gentleman could also travel through some European Union countries in such a way that he could cross that line after finding that there are no such tyrants in their database. Of course, that's not the only reason. It may also be the reason that the gentleman was on a mission, and he could travel freely through this institute where he wanted to. The Minister has already mentioned that this is a matter of the Minister of Justice. I think that this is also a matter of debate or discussion, whether it is really necessary or not, but let time be allowed for this to be agreed upon or judged by experts. We were once commended, even when we introduced this system, I think it was before our Minister of the Interior, Mr Gorenak, so I think he knows this system. At that time, I think there was a great deal of praise in the sense that this system was good. I think that, at the moment we are facing this refugee crisis, this information may be even more important. But I will not determine whether this matter is important and whether it needs to be changed or not. If I still touch on some of the allegations of damage caused by Slovenia. Now that it has been a while since we experienced this unloving event, it is quite clear that there have been no economic or political consequences. Even interestingly, at the time of the arrest in Pristina there was a delegation of Slovenian police training Kosovo police officers there, I think they were taught something about visa policy. This did not have any effect on cooperation and this work, this education for which Kosovo’s police officers are extremely grateful and has been carried out in some very pleasant and friendly atmosphere. As you know, both police work very well together. There are, I think, 13 police officers in Kosovo, or at least recently, or at the time of Eulex. They reported that, apart from a few swearings by some Albanians, there was in fact no problem at all. When Mrs Anja Bah Žibert spoke about economic damage, I looked at our foreign minister, who had lost his wide smile. I think that this damage is only on charges and no harm has been done, and I think that even economic cooperation between countries this year is significantly better than it has been in the past. In addition, the applicants did not provide any information on this at the time of the interpretation. What could you possibly say? That the Minister is responsible for the suspension of the duty in the exercise of State border control, because her officers have consistently carried out the procedures prescribed by Slovenian and European legislation. Well, it's a sad thing to think of an interpolation with such accusations, completely pointless. Dear Minister, what can I say at the end? You know, I think interpellation is primarily against good ministers, because I think good ministers work a lot too, their area is wide. And that also applies to you, because I personally think, and so do we in our Group of Members, that you are doing very well. You have good experts, i.e. employees, who you well know will stand by your side, and as far as we know the terrain, we don't know him in individuals who write all sorts of anonymities and stuff, but we know that you enjoy great respect among police. I think this is the best trip for your work forward. We'll stand by you if you do what you've done so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Vice President for your word. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished ministers and ministers! I kind of feel like we're moving on with yesterday's started interpolation. Yesterday was not a suitable day for interpolation, nor is today a suitable day for interpolation, probably never a day suitable for interpolation, but I do have a feeling that I think it does not fool me that in these moments when we are really facing a very large refugee crisis, with very difficult questions in this area, that we should do something else, but focus in particular on the essential problems. Allow me, I like to say more here and there or say a lot more, if I'm being precise, yesterday I was engaged in my performance. And I also have to apologize and admit that I didn't mean it when I complimented the Minister, which I am going to commend her again today when I just said that the Minister is in charge of the police. Of course, the minister doesn't run the police, the minister directs the police, the minister coordinates the work, and, last but not least, he controls it, I think he controls it properly. But you know, if you're quick, if you want to say a lot, sometimes you're just gonna say something, so mea culpa. Mr Gorenak, who warned me about this on Twitter, I sincerely thank you, even though he is not listening to me now. That the secretary doesn't appear enough in the media. Like who. Maybe someone would like to see it more in the media, but I think that appearing in the media, so the frequency and time in the media doesn't show too much in its work, maybe just inversely, more in the media, less focus on the work and the work is bad. But this time I think it's the other way around. A little less in the media, more in the field, and work and tasks are done. I believe that in the case of the ex-President of the Kosovo Government, I think that there was no overstatement of powers, no omission. I have read very carefully the report prepared by the Minister, I have listened very precisely to its implementation today, and I have also listened to the implementation of the interpellationers, and I can conclude from everything I have heard, everything I have read, the following. First time. The police acted in accordance with the rules of the profession. Another time. The police acted perfectly legally. The evidence that the Treaty has not been complied with is entirely, from my point of view, unfounded legislation in the field of border control. Mr. Haradinaj, I'm sure no human rights have been violated. Fourth time. In order to reduce the reputation of the Republic of Slovenia. I don't think we can talk about this, actually. Fifth. I don't think there's been any political damage, to the contrary. Six. I don't think any economic damage was caused. Otherwise, it may be a little too quick to talk about this categorically, we are in the middle of the year, we will probably be able to measure the impact and compare the economic exchange of Slovenia and the Republic of Kosovo only at the end of the year compared to the previous year, but I believe that there was no damage here, otherwise the media would write a lot about it. However, if there was a minimal boycott in a day or two on Slovenian products, this also occurred in comparison with other countries. I am convinced that this could not have affected relations with the Republic of Slovenia-Kosovo in any way. Last but not least in the media and even in the live can this be told by the head of diplomacy, who assured us, I will quote, "This matter has been successfully resolved and will have no impact on the relationship Republic of Slovenia Kosovo." What can we say at the conclusion? I am personally fully satisfied with the work of the Minister, with her work so far. I am sure that she will continue her work properly in the future. Interpellation itself is, in my personal opinion, an excessive measure, an excessive mechanism, which is legitimate, especially or exclusively for the opposition, which can always and again use it. [[..]] I want the Minister to do his job properly so that Maribor does not lose his minister or minister for a long time, and so do. I want to conclude this debate as soon as possible, which can be very long, is already painful, and that the Minister is focusing on those core issues that concern the work of the demanding district covered by it. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honor, Madam Secretary! The more this 11th regular session takes place, the more I have problems, and more and more in my mind the one thought of philosopher Schopenhauer: Style is a physiognomy of the spirit. But let's focus on the interpretation ourselves. I am neither an expert in coaching, nor an expert in international law, nor am I Mr Šter, who deals with visa policy in the Ministry of Field Affairs. We have one key problem here. I was a little dismayed when Mrs Lipicer somehow talked about the interpretation. The vice president also said left, right. Most of this House is in the middle. As modern as it is, political scientists will analyze and decide over the years. What's our problem? Interpellation, here in particular SMC has a problem, interpolation and politics is not a kindergarten. These aren't personal matters. I don't attack a human being personally. Maybe I don't know what to do. In short, it's some kind of department that's got problems. And after a year, even though there are almost two thirds of us new in politics, we should somehow be aware of that. Everyone's acting out of position, they have their responsibilities, they represent some positions, ideologies, a system of values, so I won't be too long. Let's stop being childish. The fact that the Ministry of the Interior system, in particular the police, has a number of problems is well known. That's what the unions are warning us about, and we've discussed this a number of times. I myself, on behalf of the United Left, even initiated this debate on some parental committee. Since everyone's been spreading the darkness, so am I. This case with an important Kosovo policy, who might say it is minor, is not. It's that tiny feeling, after all, how the country leads foreign policy. Now we can "roll" here unconsciously, looking for one another's theorists. I am, I will just admit, in the so-called parliamentary diplomacy, the president of this Parliament's friendship group with the Republic of Kosovo. If it didn't have any effect, no response, it doesn't, even to me. I'd rather have a discussion here about some development assistance to Kosovo in this stabilisation of the so-called – I'll just use the word Balkans, which some don't like – the Western Balkans was definitely needed. I don't even agree that this debate here is pressuring the police. Interpellation is used responsibly, what style the SDS has, that is their problem, that the voters will already assess; what I like here or not, I will not debate because I am not a member of their party. In short, from some debate about this interpretation, especially in some preparatory speech by the Minister from SMC, one would think that we have this every third day at lunch with us. Let's not joke about this. Usually, of course, the coalition "burns" and the interpellation does not go through unless you argue internally, but the purpose of the interpolation is to draw attention to some serious problem in a particular area that we are trying to solve. That's a description of our work and the warrant, period. Let's just sort of be aware of that. I could extend the subject to the rise of xenophobia, which is present here. A previous call from the National Assembly was made by a committee in which I sit that there is no kind of radicalism. If we're going to open a global network or a social network now, we're going to find out that she's here, and I'm wondering how the services are doing with this. Comrade Prikl mentioned Maribor. We know what happened in Maribor about two years ago or more. It is more than obvious that the police then crossed certain powers. I would like to know – Mr Gorenak will not agree with this – whether an internal analysis has been made that this will no longer be the case if we are already talking about this department. We, too, are disturbed by what colleague Matthew said, by some lack of publicity from the minister. Well, that's her decision, but it's also our duty to point that out. It bothers me even more when we're talking on the parental committee about the police not being invited to represent the unions. After all, they are talking about these people, who wear their head on a platter for 700 euros a month if I'm metaphorical. These are just some things we have to remind ourselves of. Because the answers were almost obvious to the Secretary-General back to the United Left. This is not true that Slovenia does not return. Certain people apply for status, they don't get it, and they try to get it back. Determined to be registered in Hungary, Croatia, is trying to return, successfully or unsuccessfully. That's what the media has been writing about. I mean, let's have a serious conversation, not that each witness is gonna lie a little bit about her own truth. The fact is that Slovenia, as well as countries with better budgets, has been better resourced, including better logistics, by the refugee crisis. I can also touch the ideological moment when I see that the government has decided – perhaps this is the direction from Brussels – to talk about migrants, not so much about refugees. We have a new situation to face. I talked about it yesterday. I'm not gonna say it again. Of course, I absolutely disagree with what Mrs Kolesh said, which, I will now say, is now absent, but Members are doing something else. I have to meet with the ambassador of Kosovo at some point. I hope someone's listening. You know, to say that it's funny to impose interpolation, especially from a party that talks a lot about dignity and likes to criticise me a lot. For example, I personally have a problem with the use of house-to-house pronouns. Her officers. Cops aren't either from Mrs. Vesna or from me. I don't know anyone. Mr Jani, as an experienced politician, said that we should be careful about what we say. I believe that you have prepared Mrs Kolesh well, but you know, as president of a group of friendships with the Republic of Kosovo, I must strongly protest the statements of the type, quote, "some dogs of some Albanians". Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mrs. Iva Dimic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, Minister of Government, colleagues and colleagues! Today, I expect a lot of talks about the refugee crisis, all the reasons for the interpretation, but I agree with my predecessor's words that the purpose of this interpretation is to draw attention to the problem that needs to be addressed. Therefore, I will touch on my own the problem that still exists and touches the internal ministry, but it is still not resolved in this country after one year, even though we have several civil initiatives in this area. The fact is, Minister, I can say that I will tell you in which area there has not yet been a movement, that you are actually enforcing laws, but I think you are being appointed as Minister to understand what citizens need and to prepare the legal basis for this problem to be resolved. I think it's the Ministry's priority, not just to enforce laws. But I'm talking about domestic violence. I have already asked you an oral question, but I was not satisfied with the answer. The fact is that more than 50% of women over the age of 15 have already experienced one form of domestic violence after some research. Too often the violence in the family ends with the murder or murder of a partner, an ex-partner. The greatest victims of such violence are children. With an oral question, I have asked you what you will do to extend the length of the police's sentence of action, as it has proved in practice several times that the worst consequences of family violence have occurred, murder just after the expiry of the said approach ban on the part of the police. The current regime, when the police can pronounce such a measure for 48 hours and then when the measure is extended to 10 days or up to 60 days, is decided by the investigating judge, does not allow the victim the necessary safety. I think the victim, and everyone will agree, needs protection as long as she's threatened. And the victim knows that for herself. That is why I think that, after my question to the Members of Parliament, Mrs Monika Piberl also visited, an initiative of the Women's Voice, which has highlighted this very pressing issue that has been going on for several years, I can also say in the last year, but virtually nothing has happened in this area. Minister, in your oral response to my question, you highlighted the possibility of amending legislation in this area, perhaps in the future, when the law is being amended. But I expect this to come from your side, without waiting for any parliamentary group to file a bill. As I said before, the minister's priority is to identify and address social problems. Any suffering or even death for victims of violence cannot be justified if it can also be prevented by appropriate legislation. However, the fact is that the current rules on the protection of victims are not appropriate, so I think immediate action is necessary, but I can say that the Minister does not address this serious issue at all. I believe that there are many of the social problems that we are facing, but as you yourself have said, you have your professional colleagues for each area, subordinates, but if you give the task, they must prepare the matter. You have answered me orally, and I will quote: "As regards the extension of the duration of the measure, I can say that when we open the law on the tasks and powers of the police we will certainly try to open a public debate also on the criteria which must be met if the judge can then take action for a longer period or even obtain a legal mandate." I am asking you at this interpretation, when will this, how much more violence will be required in Slovenia in order for this to happen? I think we need this law too much. Everyone's warning us about it. You said you agreed, but you mentioned that the case should be under the jurisdiction of the court. I agree that it is under the jurisdiction of the courts. But in all that we can do, it could only be under the jurisdiction of the courts so that the court can finally confirm. All the progress and all the protection could be made immediately upon the first non-approach. I have now given you the solutions I see to help protect all these women. I would therefore like to ask for an answer when you will start this problematic question in Slovenia too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues, colleagues, ministers and ministers! Let me begin by saying that, as a woman who has decided to join the world of politics, I support you. In Slovenia, unfortunately, it is still too much of a man's world. Why? We can ask ourselves, but we can see, after all, our male colleagues and the media are still working with us women in politics in a way that matters how long our wings or what kind of shoes we wear to a certain dress. And on numerous occasions, I have had the question of how as a politician I coordinate my work and private, family life. I don't think a man's colleague has ever been involved in such a matter. As the woman you've decided to do this, once again, I support you. Secondly, the merits of the interpretation that we are talking about today. In fact, from the beginning, I had some doubts about the substantive merits of the interpolation that had been submitted. Today, when I listened to your answer, I can say that I am even more convinced that this written interpretation in relation to the content is not the most justified. Of course, we are waiting for some more of your answers to the questions that have been asked, but with your suggestions you have convinced me for once. You know, I'm kind of happy about one thing. This is to be heard and seen in this national assembly. Yesterday, when you stood for a pay phone when we talked about the refugee crisis, I tried to remember if you'd ever stood for that pay phone in a year, except when you swore an oath. I couldn't find an event on my own in one year of the ministry. In some ways, it is your job to explain to Members of Parliament, Members and ultimately to people what you are doing as Minister. I agree with you that politicians shouldn't be a media star and stand in front of cameras every day. I absolutely agree with that. However, it is your duty, Madam Minister, to explain to the public and Members, that is the duty of the Minister. During the year of your ministry, I have a feeling that the Ministry is run by someone other than you, Minister. During the biggest migration crisis and problems in Slovenia, it took you three days to hear your response and in some way calm down that we manage matters in Slovenia. Three days. Do you think that's right? I have a feeling you've been waiting for this to happen. And when it went as it should, you showed up and commended the people who had done their job well. Dear Minister, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government, a respected coalition, perhaps after a year of your rule, it is time for you to reflect on your work, including your work at the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Dr. Dragan Matić has the word. Get ready, Mr. Benedict Kopmeyer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u50	President, thank you for your word. Dear ministers and ministers, dear colleagues! An explanation of the interpretation that requires the responsibility or expulsion of the Minister of Home Affairs proves that the SDS party has a completely different concept of what the rule of law is, as we do. From the observations they listed, there is a spirit that stems from some other times when there was no Minister of Home Affairs, but there are countries that we could not say were democratic. And these countries knew the role of police minister, who directly led the police and, in individual cases, decided how to act. The problem the SDS has with this interpretation is that neither in any point on which it relies has been shown to be objective, nor has it been the subjective responsibility of the Minister. More. Nowhere is it shown where the minister should do anything in the event described, nor is it shown how the law or regulation could define the possibility of doing anything or in any way. If we sum up the first and second interpretation points, the SDS Minister accuses her of being responsible for the fact that police officers at the border crossing of a Kosovo citizen have detained him, allegedly illegally took away a diplomatic passport and should also leave the obligation to exercise control over the implementation of the State Border Control Act. It is understood that the SDS considers that the Minister should intervene as the police have violated that law along with the provision contained in the United Nations Convention on Special Missions. This should have happened in this way, as I have already said, that the said gentleman had taken a passport or I quote their words, "has reached into his personality in carrying out a diplomatic mission." End of quote. Only a description of the circumstances of Mr Haradinaj's detention episode, as described in the interpretation, does not correspond to the actual situation. Problems with the travel of a Kosovo citizen began in the verification of passport data, where, at the time of entry into the central computer system, a valid international search was recorded with effect from 8 October 2004 to 1 January 2049. This was followed by a telephone check of the validity of the measure through the Interpol National Bureau in Slovenia, which confirmed the validity of the act. A check was also carried out by a staff member of the Department of Sirene, which is the Slovenian Interpol, at the Interpol of Serbia. They orally confirmed the validity of the measure and confirmed, the following day, by notification, that the act of torture was in force. In the fact that the tyrant proved to be valid, the police have taken Mr Haradinaj's freedom. As mentioned earlier today, it was also important that Haradinaj had a diplomatic passport, but he had only a valid tourist visa. Haradinaj did not invoke diplomatic immunity, nor did he submit documents proving that he has diplomatic status on a special diplomatic mission in Kosovo, nor has Slovenia been informed of any diplomatic mission. As a result, the police did not check his diplomatic status and understandably. And all that the police then did was that Haradinaj, with his passport, had led to a judge in the district court who had initiated a procedure for the realization of international tyranny. This led to the completion of the police procedure. All further decisions were under the jurisdiction of the judicial authorities. During the procedure itself, the gentleman was able to contact his country's representatives in the Republic of Slovenia, it is said with the diplomatic consular office of Kosovo and all his rights were made known orally in English and in writing in Albanian. All the other circumstances, such as the fact that the gentleman was on a diplomatic mission, came up with a plan later when the Slovenian Ministry of Foreign Affairs intervened, when a diplomatic note from the Kosovo Embassy was forwarded to the District Court, which arrived only two days after Haradinaj was received. On that basis, the Court then returned the passport to that person on the same day and made it possible to continue the journey. It is quite clear from the description that the police officer carrying out checks at the external border of the EU had no other option than to hold Haradinaj, after verification of the tyranny and finding that the act of torture is still in force, and after further verification of the facts, the police could do nothing but translate it before the judge. The police therefore conducted the procedure in accordance with the applicable legislation and international rules. All other points of interpolation, that is to say the third point, which speaks of a decrease in the reputation of the Republic of Slovenia due to this event, is not justified by anything. As it is said, it was a standard procedure that was carried out. The 4th and 5th points of the interpolation on the deterioration of relations with the country of Kosovo and economic damage are not supported by any argument, at least I have not heard it. We can conclude from all this that the Minister did not intervene in the procedure properly, as there was no basis for this, and therefore there is no justification for the interpretation. It's the other way around. If the Minister had acted differently and had been directly involved in the work of the police, and had instructed the police to release or otherwise release the person against whom Interpol's tyrant was addressed, then the Minister would have given these instructions to the police, and then we would probably have some reason to sit here today and discuss interpolation. On the basis of the Minister's request, MNZ is 19. On 6th this year, he filed a request for a report with the Chief Police Administration. On the basis of this report and the documentation received, the police department found that the police acted professionally and legally. Now, all the signs are in the direction of how Haradinaj traveled across other border crossings and how he didn't have any problems there. I do not believe that this is part of this interpretation at all, because what is included in the database, which is not, is not decided by the police, nor does it have jurisdiction in this regard. What about this, and what are the objective facts? The fact is that Slovenia is one of the few countries that does not have the so-called separate national tyrannical base. The answer is why Haradinaj was not arrested, for example, in Vienna, Belgium or elsewhere. There they apparently decided not to include specific Serbian tyrants in the national system and was therefore not detected by border control. However, neither the police nor the Ministry of the Interior decide on this. What is the practice in this regard, the Slovenian police later inquired in Austria and were given the answer, for example, that in cases where they receive an international search call or a red Interpol notice in Austria, and there are doubts whether the search would be called into the national police system, they shall send the invitation to the Ministry of Justice, which shall decide whether the invitation to tender is included or not. In a specific case, the Austrian Ministry of Justice cancelled the search for Mr Haradinaj on the basis of its decisions. This does not mean that the tyranny is still not active in Interpol databases, because only the authorising officer can withdraw it, this is the court in Serbia which issued the invitation to tender. We need to decide to introduce a similar system in order to give the Ministry of Justice a discretionary right to place a specific tyrant on the national database. The police are also planning or preparing a technical solution whereby staff members can add a note on non-application to end-users, which is said to police officers in the form of a flag, wherever the Ministry of Justice decides that this will not be taken into account. In any event, the direct exercise of an assessment of the validity of international acts of torture and the issuing of a decision not to carry out an arrest on the basis of an international warrant for a particular person will still be under the jurisdiction of the judicial or other authorities and not the police. So we have a system like this, but it has to be stressed that this system has not been the same since this year, but that it has been the same for many years, and it has also been the same at the time of the Minister of Justice of Gorenak and Minister of Justice of Sturm, so it is difficult to speak of the fact that however this government is responsible for the actual situation we have or for the practice we have. However, there is nothing wrong with this, and it is also the autonomous right of each country to decide whether to intervene under its discretion to be decided by the Ministry of Justice or to take into account all Interpol's international abuses. I think that this gave Mr Gorenak an answer, which he promised that if this miracle becomes clear, he would then propose to his delegation to withdraw the interpretation. Speaking of and with Mr Gorenak, let me reiterate what has already been said several times today, this debate on interpolation has actually started yesterday. Mr Gorenak taught us, at first, for quite some time in his performance, how we should not use the refugee crisis in the direction of political arguments between the opposition and the coalition, that this was inappropriate, but, after a few minutes of his teaching, the minister noted that he had no plans for refugees. He called her incompetent, called her to retreat, and so on. He even told her that he didn't appear enough in the media. And according to my assessment, there was a scandal yesterday. The MP of the National Assembly urged the secretary of security in front of the cameras to calm people down with false information, as was said to have been the case in 1991. Mr Gorenak told people at the time that the territorial defence had freed some border crossings that did not really exist, and in this way he advised the Minister of Home Affairs to communicate with the citizens. I think this is a completely wrong approach. Slovenian citizens deserve objective, real information. They do not need to be calmed, they only need to be properly informed. On this point, I think the Minister is doing well. I think that all measures have shown so far that the system works well, that the police are doing well, that the government is doing well, that NGOs and humanitarian organisations are doing well. Finally, praise comes from Germany, Austria, to act as it should in the context of the refugee crisis. However, the SDS does not like such an approach, said its own Member, MEP Milan Zver, who cited Mr Orban and Hungary as an example of appropriate action against refugees and the treatment of refugees. I believe that if the SDS were in power by any chance now, we would already have much more concrete measures, in the sense that some future wire could be built on the southern border, but the reserve police force would already be activated, and the military would already have the power to occupy the border. All of this would be likely because some people seem to be very fond of them to feel good about themselves. And I don't think there's any need for that right now. Right now, the situation is solid. In no case have I heard that these refugee events would endanger the lives of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia or endanger their assets. The situation is completely under control, and I hope that this will continue. In this respect, I trust our Minister. However, as I have already demonstrated in my explanation and my performance sufficiently, the interpretation is unfounded and cannot be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u51	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, the proponent, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Madam President. I hope you've heard from the last debate what is the subject of today's interpretation for SMC colleagues. We have practically heard nothing about the Haradinaj case. Again, we have heard some strange statements about the fear that the Slovenian Democratic Party is causing in this country. In his introduction, Mr Matić said that we have different views on the rule of law. Absolutely. I deeply agree with you here. The Slovenian Democratic Party is committed to the constitution and law and respect for the laws, and your party looks at this peacefully. Last but not least, you have a Minister of Justice who has repeatedly violated the law. The last time you took your term. The view on your country of law is clear to citizens and citizens. You mentioned that the warrant was valid. Then you, Mr Matić, tell me how the former Kosovo Prime Minister could have left Slovenia after two days. If the act of torture is in force, other measures are necessary. Please also tell me how the Serbian President was surprised by the decision of the Slovenian state. He said something really weird was going on in this country. Like Mr Matić, some of his predecessors also said that there was no harm done and that there was no concrete evidence for this. Oh, they are! I already said one in the introductory explanation of interpolation. Security was compromised. Those soldiers who were on duty on a mission in Kosovo were called off. Their work, for which they are poorly paid but who are very responsible, could not be done. There was a demonstration before the Embassy in Pristina. Finally, two companies were attacked or one company was somehow linked to mobility or a mobile operator and was attacked by the New Ljubljana Bank. And not only that, many calls from Kosovo citizens have been that the most severe sanctions against Slovenia must be imposed, not only by boycotting our products, but that things must be stepped up. So please don't talk nonsense about the economic or political damage. She was! And you can't be fixed. The political damage is even more severe because we have been disgraced before the international public as well as before the Serbian state, much less before the Republic of Kosovo. And one more thing. The minister said earlier that every police officer who operates at the border somehow decides how he will act. Then I ask you, Your Honor, what about Article 8 of the State Border Control Act, where police officers are only allowed to exercise the power to carry out tasks with the least adverse consequences for a person. In accordance with Article 8 of the Law on State Border Control, the Minister responsible for Home Affairs shall prescribe a way of carrying out border controls at individual types of border crossing points. If you prescribe something, then how do you say that on the other hand, police officers can make their own decisions? And one more thing. Once again, we have no answer as to why Mr Haradinaj is repeatedly and not only through Slovenia, but also through other countries without a problem, and in Slovenia you have somehow leaned on a tyrant who is not really anymore. Mr. Haradinaj was acquitted of all charges in The Hague before a court of law. And the fact that there is no such tyranny has also been told you by the Prime Minister of Serbia. Nothing. And that has anything else to do with it? Of course he does. For there are no more tyrants in other countries. But obviously in Slovenia, this one exists. However, if the Prime Minister of Serbia has spoken nonsense, then the government should protest publicly and very strongly. But it was all quiet. According to you, everything was nice and right, the tyranny was valid, and the former Kosovo Prime Minister was free after two days or he was allowed to cross the border and return home. Then how's that? How is it that the warrant is valid? Do you know why? Because it was found that the laws had been broken, that the United Nations Convention had been violated and that Mr Haradinaj had been on a special mission. But it's the police's duty to check. Of course, it depends on what direction he receives from those responsible. And here the law is clear. It's the secretary's responsibility, and that's an objective responsibility. It was said that there was no economic damage. I said it specifically, it's an objective responsibility. I was talking about political damage. Of course she was, because they were laughing at us. Yeah, that's an objective responsibility, too. Your Honor, the arguments in the interpretation are still true. The fact that the Minister was not able to answer the specific questions that are both in interpretation and those raised by Mr Vinko Gorenak suggests that this interpretation is still justified. I advise the Minister that after this meeting is over, she will listen to Mr Gorenak so that she can at least tell her what she should know outside of this National Assembly, and she does not or does not know in the performance of her ministerial function.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u53	The word is Benedict Kopmeyer. Get ready, Mr Matjaž German.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Honorable Council of Ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In listening to today's arguments against the Minister of the Interior in the case of a citizen of the Republic of Kosovo, I find just the opposite, as the motioners point out in the interpretation. The Ministry is governed by professional, responsible, competent, especially if it was found at the time that the acquisition of a citizen of the Republic of Kosovo was not a diplomatic or police failure, since the competent authorities acted on the basis of the applicable Interpol tyranny. I estimate that the applicants already realize that today's interpolation is either an empty shot or a shot to the knee, if I put it more domestically. If there is already a need for interpretation in this case, I would expect more interpretation against the Minister of Justice, since this case belongs to his department, and you have already identified it. Look, today we will talk for 10 hours about objective or subjective responsibility for an act that was lawful and in accordance with the police profession and has been resolved into a well-called one. If I comment on the economic damage statement. Economic exchange with Kosovo: last year there were around 30 million euros in exports and 1 million imports from the Republic of Kosovo. The numbers aren't exactly high. We can also rhetorically ask ourselves what the damage will be. We 90 Members, or a few less plus ministers, who will talk for 10 hours here about interpolation, if we just multiply it, it's 900 to 1,000 hours of work, if we multiply it with our hourly items then we know what the damage will be, under the terms, is. However, after the Minister's previous replies and further explanation of the case, I am even more confident that today's interpolation will not be supported. And to the police at the airport, congratulations on their professional and responsible performance. And that also gives me a guarantee that he won't sneak through the airport another possible terrorist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u55	The text is by the proposer, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u56	Thank you very much. I have to respond to a colleague from Desus, although it's quite difficult for me, given the way we like to say it, it's a shame that we're not possible outside the National Assembly, and some things might be easier. It would be good for you to consider yourself in your own group. Mr Jurša stated in his position that the Minister was at least partly objectively responsible. Oh, so it's an objective responsibility to confirm. Now let me tell you something about objective responsibility. It is undeniable that objective responsibility in the political sphere is indeed indispensable, for in the complex organisational framework of political situations and in the context of the great political dynamics of modern society, it is often impossible to determine sufficiently all causal links and the levels of possible criminal behaviour of different actors within state bodies and the differentiated application of political responsibility. Do you know who wrote this? Your Prime Minister. So much for that. Now you decide whether the responsibility applies only when the Minister of Intermediate is a small coalition party or when it suits you for some other reason, or whether you will do so always and everywhere. That's a two-faced policy. However, I am pleased, my fellow Member, that you note that there is a need to interpelle another minister, and I will immediately sign under your interpretation. And I find that something is really wrong with this coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u57	Mr Matjaž German has the floor. Get Dr. Milan Brglez ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u58	Thank you, Madam Vice President. As I listen to this debate today, it seems to me that we have lost some sense of perception in the National Assembly or a sense of a framework of perception for a time, a place, an event, everything that is going on around us. It is unclear to me whether the detention or detention of former Prime Minister Ramush Haradinaj is a possible refugee crisis or a possible event in Afghanistan, Iran, Iraq, Libya. I would very much like to find in the National Assembly a way to prevent things that are bigger than us and that are part of some global games, but still I think it feels like at least that, at least that's the way I think people have that in some of our perceptions of solving the problems that surround us, we are only at least more humane and partly more successful than the nations that surround us. More than worrying about what kind of impression we're going to leave because of, yes, I think the mistakes that have been made, but this happens to a living person, and that's why we need to understand the dimension of this inconvenience that's happened. If I could demand responsibility from anyone, it could be the listening of some countries or the attack on the sovereignty of others or the causing of this inhumane wave, which we must face today, or the Minister must face today, and that is why the very obviousness of the Minister is not clear what we are aiming more – either at one or at the other. If we demand responsibility, and we can talk about it in the National Assembly, and to whom we can point the finger, it is possible, in particular, to those Februarys that have not responded to calls for the assistance of those countries surrounding the European Union, or in the last two or three months of those countries when we speak about Greece, when we speak of Macedonia, Serbia, and today to Croatia, who cannot control this wave, which I think our minister and her team and the police can do well, at least to this day. I don't understand this raising of dust at an inappropriate time when we have to act in some way uniformly and give people the feeling that our policy can deal with the biggest crisis since 1991 and face it in at least the way we did. By the way, that wave is the worst thing that's yet to happen. That is why it seems totally inappropriate for us to lose one of those ministers at this time who prevents or allows us to understand the crisis in such a dimension and to respond humanly, as we have so far. Yeah, they're happening, like I said, to a living person, and the inconvenience, as it happened at the Brno airport, but life goes on. Sometimes one kind word only starves relations in such a vulnerable area as the Balkans. I doubt that our friends from Kosovo will hold this against us forever. But when we see what is happening today, yesterday in Croatia's relations with Serbia, how our Serbian friends will act in the event that the European Union, God, does not, does, will turn its back on them. I think that these are problems of modern times, and with these problems, our minister will have to be prepared, in good shape, to deal with them in the coming weeks or months with the whole team, and I think that also with politics in some way to stand by each other, no matter what mistake we make, which is not just fatal, given the world we live in. I can't think about supporting this interpolation, given the dimensions of the events that are taking place around us. What is crucial is that today, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, the Minister will be able to react humanly when we talk about the safety of our people, when we talk about humanity to other people, those who from our country only expect to get maybe one glass of water, a sandwich or just one warm blink, because we are only living in such times that we must not deal with small things and we must try to see as much as possible the whole picture. We fight in different ways. We see how the countries of the multinational group are talking about the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Poland, how they are coping with this crisis. We see how Hungary has somehow coped with this crisis. But Slovenia is not, thank God, even in this group, and I think it is also thanks to the Minister and Government, in a way also Members of the National Assembly, who only know how to maintain some dialogue in these times. And above all, this is my call, let's leave little things, let's be as human as possible in these moments that we're going to need in the coming days and weeks. That is why the Minister, I hope and I want you to have a lot of courage in the future, we have difficult times ahead, I think we need to be aware of this and only with full energy forward, and I hope that they will appreciate it in some way in the opposition and in the coalition. I understand that mistakes are made, whether you are objective or subjective or not at all, life goes on and let us see those things that are really important to our country, to our people and to those who expect help from our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u59	Dr. Milan Brglez has the word to prepare Mr. Jernej Vrtovec, then Mrs. Janja Slug.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear interior minister, the rest of the government's team, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! When I was preparing to say a few words in favour of this interpretation being entirely unfounded, I first had a very simple strategy. I would say, yes, the system is problematic, so there is no objective responsibility of a specific minister in this case. It was my first strategy. But when I went to look even more closely, I realized that this interpolation had one fundamental error. There has been no violation of international law. That reference to the 1967 United Nations Convention on Special Missions is totally inappropriate. Why? Because Kosovo is not a signatory, not a party, not an heir, Kosovo is not a party to this Treaty. This Treaty shall apply in relation to the entire circle of all Contracting Parties. It can't apply through this. That Slovenia then used it to diplomatically resolve one of its issues is the matter of other procedures, the discretion afforded by the State below, which can only be exercised in courts in any regulated country by intervention either by the Foreign Minister or by the Minister of Justice or by another, who would thus be empowered. This is about the first slip. According to the United Nations record, Kosovo is not a party. And if it is not a Contracting Party, then it is not possible to apply this Convention directly to it. If the State wants to use it, it uses it out of curtosis and not out of anything else, which is why the subordinate authorities cannot know. Then on what grounds did I come to that essential point? Generally speaking, in diplomacy, diplomatic passports mean nothing in themselves. A diplomatic passport in connection with the function you perform, only in this correlation, in no other way. And what should a cop think about anyone else who meets a diplomatic passport with a tourist visa? What a tourist visa in a diplomatic passport! Whoever leaked this made a fundamental mistake. It is certainly possible to issue another passport. You probably know if you're going with your passport to the United States, but you're going on an official mission there, you're going to fill out these paperwork so much that it's not true because you have a diplomatic passport. A regular citizen doesn't need a tourist. So these are two fundamental essential differences that travel to when one status is used, when another status is used. But certainly certain functions are required. Yeah, it was subsequently reported. The diplomatic route could be communicated much faster. At least according to our legislation, only the Ministry can't do that. It must be based on something another country sends to it, which we recognize. We can assign, politically speaking, also such status, totally comparable to the other contractual status that we are bound to all others. But a fundamental error – this interpellation is internationally unfounded. There is no international legal basis for this interpretation. All other reasons as to what we need to do and how we consider the first international situation in Slovenia, which I also wanted to say, are not, in fact, relevant if the basic fact that this person is supposed to have a protected status and should also be treated in a certain way is not, in fact, true. He can't hold. If we were to stick closely to the whole case, even in this case, if the court were to go into the details and disregarded the discretion that the state had, then we would really have a problem. This is why it is always in such matters, and extradition is one such matter, absolutely whether it is a fundamental or not for the EU, is always linked to it. It is true, however, that this diplomatic status, which is supposed to belong in principle to those exercising diplomatic functions and, of course, special missions can also be such or because we have special missions, so we translate it, this matter is also bound by customary law, and here is a basis, on two things. Two entities of international law must agree at least on what kind of function this is actually, what someone is doing — let's give it what we say — on a business trip. And if this is really the case and the matter is really done as it should be, all those authorities that need to be informed are, I'm sure, informed of this business trip. They're always informed. But if it's anything else, then it's only natural to be suspicious. And in case of suspicion, that suspicion has to be rebutted in some way. In this case, it took as long as it took. We can talk about how to change this system, but it's a very complex thing. You must be aware, but here I can use what I also wanted to use for this other way of reasoning, that only when we talked about an arbitration agreement with Croatia did those who are engaged in professional law come to the point that international law is really so important that we can also directly implement it if it is competing with domestic law. Only this time do we have that clause in our constitution, namely Article 8 of the 1991 Constitution, which existed, by the way, even in the previous one. This attitude towards international law has been inherited from the previous common country. Thus, to me, this interpolation is, at least legally speaking, totally unfounded, it refers to incorrect data, it deals with diplomatic status, which is not the norm of the day, and is essentially more of a matter of curtosis and political relations with a particular country, which other authorities cannot know in the future. And only after the proper procedure has been carried out can they do what is also politically appropriate for the country. But according to our procedure, the matter is not such that our own body here, let's say that the Foreign Minister himself says it, but that his statement would be sufficient, so that he needs some material evidence, or that on the other hand, in an appropriate official manner, that he can be identified in our judicial proceedings, which is related to it. At least that's a key argument for me. It's internationally unfounded. However, anyone who looked at the basic basis whenever we were discussing international treaties would be encroached on that understanding. You always look at who signed the contract, who ratified it, who inherited it, pure foundations. In international law, these are key things. The validity is not quite assumed, except when it comes to such international treaties which have such wide recognition that even if a country has not ratified it because it has grown into normal law, it still binds others under customary law. In this case, this is absolutely not the case. The circle of the Parties to the Convention on Special Missions is 30, and there is something else — just so much so that it is valid. And normally, legal basis is only what or what is insured, legal status derives from the function performed by a person, from the consent of two entities to do so. That path, however, must be made so that this matter can happen, must be communicated in an appropriate manner, and then uninterrupted. Otherwise, anything wrong can always happen. I certainly suggest to my fellow Members that if you ever go with a passport, use it only for official purposes, then everything will be fine. But if you try to use it for private purposes at our border it will still benefit you. [[...]] But when you get one line forward, you're gonna stop for a while. The longer you go, the longer you stop. So internationally this is in no way true, and for me, in fact, this interpretation from this point of view is irrelevant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u61	Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor to prepare Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u62	Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! I find it hard to hear that this is a case of interpolation for the use of an interpolation institute. I understand that we can say that this is an unfounded document, nor do I take the view that this is a document that is not legally valid. Look, it's just an instrument of opposition that he has, which is constitutionally determined. That is why we need to speak sensitively to this limit. At the outset, Madam Minister, I said that I had no problem with the Haradinaj case. However, I still have some concern or concern about our willingness, and what we said last Monday, about the admission of more migrants. I didn't get an answer about how ready we are for 20,000 migrants. We have exceptional circumstances, when we say that Croatia makes mistakes, exceptional circumstances, that buses and trains of migrants do not bring from Zagreb or from the factory to Dobovo, Brežice, but that they go to compositions of these numbers to Hungary. What would happen if you did? Are we ready for this wave of migrants? Let me tell you, yesterday alone, 10,000 people crossed the Croatian-Hungarian border. We had 3,000. There is just news from Macedonia that there are Greek-Macedonian thousands I warn you not to be prepared for 2 000, 3 000, 5 000 people, let yourself be prepared and presented, please, not because of you, us, because of citizens and citizens for 20 000, 30 000. [[..]] Croatia was not ready. I don't want to talk about the legal basis right now, but you mentioned that there's no corridor. The corridor is, so to speak, and is available to all countries of the European Union. For the legal basis that we may lay men in the Age, and bring them to the Upper Radgon, and then carry them on, is not. But this is violated by all the countries of the European Union, both Schengen and Dublin agreements. But if there's a legal basis for this, please answer me. I think the corridors already exist here. And the moment Austria, Germany, said, we have enough of this, 500 thousand of them as a labor force to do these people – what then? We're getting information that the Italians are thinking, too, and I don't know if you have the same information to think about the border of Slovenia, but to start controlling. There's a lot of mistrust. Then we need to think seriously about strengthening our southern border, and we need to think today so that it is not too late for the day after tomorrow. Just when this violation of the Schengen Agreement will not be enough once we are no longer able to load people on the bus in Brežice and take them to Šentilj. Because they won't let us. How will we withstand this pressure if it really does come to this? There is no such plan, I thought I would hear about it in the context of the question of the mission, and yesterday it was not. How are we going to secure the border so strongly that we can protect the Schengen when Germany says they don't want any more migrants? As far as migrants are concerned, I believe I'll get an answer for this today. Once again, as far as last weekend is concerned, I estimate that the Republic of Slovenia has done well, but as long as we are allowed to violate the rules. Here, however, I would point out one problem that we have made in the past, namely this State Assembly without the votes of New Slovenia, which could be reflected in family reunification. We are one of the regular countries of the European Union, which we have opened up this union of families so wide, you know about this case that happened, I think, February of the month. Now that we have so many migrants here, this could be an additional problem. Here I suggest that you also consider a new legislative initiative. Furthermore, I would like to point out a criminal investigation with the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as well as in the National Assembly. Here was not by the opposition, but I think there were more hot blood or more arguments that this was not justified, what you were defending, you could also hear from the kind of coalition. And it's very unusual for the police to enter the premises of the current Prime Minister into his office unannounced and start searching his computer. This is your Prime Minister. And that's very unusual. As Mr Han said in his press statement, I will quote: "The Interior Minister should also inform the President of the National Assembly." That's what Mr. Han said. And it's hard to believe, Mr. Han, I quote, "that the interior minister didn't know what was going on in those moments." If you ask me, we should also inform the Prime Minister that the NPU will come to his premises. That's extremely unusual. You can imagine that Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany would come and hack into her computer, unannounced. Can you imagine? Not because of her, her mistakes, not because of her investigation, but because of Schröder's investigation. I can't imagine. What an affair that would be! This happened in Slovenia. Not just us, you have also remained critical in this hall, especially SD, Jani Möderndorfer and so on. That's why you have to give the answers. But I'm calling again at Haradinaj's expense. I don't have any reservations about this myself, as I said. The basis for our vote is elsewhere, especially in that we still have no answers regarding the willingness to increase the number of refugees, we are talking about 10,000. As far as Haradinaj is concerned, this is too little for us to vote for your resolution. Others are the reasons, as mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u63	Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u64	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Greetings to the Minister and to the others invited! The question to me is why it is only today, three months after the intervention, that we are addressing it at this meeting of the National Assembly, why it has been stalling all this time. Yesterday we had very serious discussions at a closed meeting and an open meeting on the issue, including the Ministry of the Interior, and today only on this interpretation. And some of you connect with each other. I'm more concerned about what we talked about last night, about fear and everything. However, this interpolation does not concern the matter of a matter that occurred more than three months ago. It doesn't seem strange to me that there has been this awkwardness, as they say, given the situation and the situation in our country. Even because of the situation he's in our police force. I am simply ashamed as a Member that the situation in the Slovenian police is such that they do not have the basic resources to carry out their duties, that the situation is getting worse, that we have lost over 2,000 policemen in a few years, and we are protecting the Schengen border. This awkwardness that's happened, you all admit it wasn't right. But why did it take two days to clear this up? I have a few cases myself a few years back with the police when things didn't work out the way they should. Certain things are funny. But given the state of the police, it's completely understandable to me now. And also this event, which took two days to find out that the former Kosovo Prime Minister has diplomatic immunity. I wonder why in other countries of the European Union, when crossing borders, the Serbian Prime Minister is surprised and says something is wrong in Slovenia. It's really wrong. And from this comes the objective responsibility of the Minister of the Interior, certainly. And lately, certain officials who come into certain functions don't think it's a gift from someone, not a task, a demanding task, and a lot of responsibility. I can't get past what I've heard from others today, including the United Left, about the events that are yet to come, about the refugees themselves. Mate Matić said we're in control of everything. It's great. There's no problem. It's the same as we say the sun is shining today, we're all sunning, we're not worried, but the weather forecast, which is pretty accurate, shows a lot of storms in two days. And we're having a good sunbathing until it starts to fall. Now we should be wondering what is coming from Macedonia through Serbia, how many are there in the Middle East ready to go and what we will do. Today's debate and yesterday's debate do not give me any confidence, and the fear of people on the ground is very justified by the events that are taking place. I come from near the southern border, there will be no problem of the northern border, the problem will be the southern border. When you talk to those responsible for this part of protecting this southern border, their willingness to do so, we can be concerned. I will therefore support this interpretation because it has not been felt in recent months that everything at the Ministry of the Interior is really fine or as it should have been that the Minister had some due diligence or that she was aware of the situation and took sufficient care of her portfolio. There was a Secretary of State in the National Assembly, he always answered everything and we wondered where the Minister was. She just wasn't there. She probably had so much work to do, but it does not show that the results of this work were such that she was rightly absent. I will therefore support this interpretation, and I would also like to point out to the Prime Minister that it is ultimately his responsibility. He is the first minister, he is responsible for the work of the executive and indirectly also for the work and security of our citizens. If he can speak so widely for the Minister and so little goes into the content of this, because I understand that he cannot know all or so much as some government presidents before him, yet he might be aware of the responsibility and it would be time for his ministerial team to be strengthened or more aware of its responsibilities. Of course, the position towards extreme power will defend its minister. We've already had experience that whatever content, whatever problems, you're defending what you're ordered to do. You're telling me everything's fine, but I'm sure there's a lot of people in terms of the events that will come, even a little fear.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u65	The word has magic. Jana Jenko. Let's get the mags ready. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye to all of you! Today's debate, the interpretation of the work of the Minister of the Interior seems to me to be wasting time in the air again. I just think it's a great stage for some public appearances. But I'm concerned that if this part of the opposition that speaks so loudly here today really thinks so, then they're in trouble. My friend Rotovec said we have an extraordinary situation. Yes, Europe has an exceptional situation. That's why it's even more pointless for me to discuss something here today for 10 hours, something for which the Minister is definitely not objectively responsible. This time both the Secretary of State, Mr Šefic and the Minister, could use much, much more useful today. That's how you have to sit here. Mr. Lach said the interpolation delayed for three months. I wonder how happy I would be if the interpretation was, say, midsummer, around August 10th. I'm sure he'd be happy to come here and, like, two months earlier. I don't know, well, if you'd be so happy. I think the situation in the police is good. Our officers are highly qualified, but I want them to be as materially equipped as they are, but unfortunately we are still at a time when they must share the fate of the entire working population. Both in the employment economy and in the public sector as a whole. However, I hope that over time the situation will change, that more resources will also come from the material support of police officers so that they can do even better, more easily, the work they are doing. I've been listening to the readings for almost five hours today. However, I did not see one concrete fact by the proponents as to how this matter affected economic activity and political relations. You haven't mentioned one case yet, but you've said so much. That is what I think we could begin to make concrete. It's just that there's something to say in general without evidence, and I think it's fog mixing. Our officers at the border in this case have handled all due care. They also checked the diplomatic passport and found out that Interpol's APB had been signed. I don't think it's possible for the police to check for anyone whether the warrant is still valid or not. That's what I think we'd be looking into in general. It shall be checked only when the person concerned is shown in the register that he or she is subject to an alert. Police officers, unfortunately, too, Mr Gorenak, neither I nor anyone else can know for each Earthling whether there is a warrant behind him or not if he does not look into any register. I don't think anyone's that capable. And here they looked in the register and saw that the APB had been signed. It was called by the Serbian state, you say Serbia and Montenegro were then. Yes, and there is an inheritance here, and Serbia has also taken responsibility in this case for the removal of this tyranny. Why she didn't delete it, we don't know. We don't even know if it's been erased. Look, until this case became so resounding in our public media, it seems to me that without meaning, I didn't know that he was forgiven in The Hague. That's probably not the case with a lot of people. Yeah, unfortunately, I didn't follow up on this case that much. Only then did I find out he was forgiven. God help, everyone is watching what he is more interested in, and I must say that I really wasn't interested in it that much. One more thing about Interpol. Interpol is an international organization of criminal police and it brings together, I think, 178 countries. And the only country that issued a warrant for someone has the right to change or withdraw it. Serbia did not do this. The Minister and our officers aren't responsible. It was reported that he was entered, and that's it. You're picking up some other things that are attracted to your hair. Yesterday there was a lot of talk about the refugee problem that our police aren't ready, they're not doing well. I think they're doing very well, they're ready. But it is true that when a crowd, say, comes, 10,000 or more, there seems to be some chaos in every country. I hope it's not in ours either, that they're really ready. That's what's gonna happen if it happens. But so far they've handled the matter perfectly. Today, I will not support this interpretation against the Minister, and I hope that you will not go again in the future to waste our time and time in the air, but to get as concrete as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u67	Procedurally, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u68	Thank you, Madam Vice President. By the rules of procedure you are right, but do something not to be mentioned by any other Member, and I cannot answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u69	You'll be in the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u70	No, no, no. Wait, no one's gonna hear that in the end. So I think there's something to be done about this topic, because it's impossible to listen to things like this. However, you have a second option, Madam Vice-President, and this is possible under the rules of procedure, but the question is how much you master the subject, because you do not owe it either. If a Member speaks in order that his time runs out, as we have heard now, you can say something to this Member, saying something false or something like that. You can do that. Because everything we just listened to was all wrong. If an expert wrote this, you understand that the MP is speaking and spending time. But now I don't know if you have that knowledge, do something if you don't, and ask me for help, and I'll help you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u71	What was your procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u72	That, yes, you're asking me for help so you can answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u73	This was a procedural abuse. Procedurally, Mr. Jan Mahnic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I recall that you have already interrupted me in this Parliament, too, because in my debates I have embroiled with Members who have defended the position of the Group of Members. Dr. Brglez does the same thing and Mr. Hainz does the same thing. My colleague, Dr Vinko Gorenak, has not yet discussed today, but he has given his opinion on the Group of Members. And when one of our Members and Members deals with the one who has given the position of the Group of Members, you constantly warn us and jump into our word, you interrupt us so that we must not be embroiled with those who give the position of the Group of Members. My procedural suggestion is that you're consistent here, too, because virtually everyone is embroiled with Dr. Vinko Gorenak, who hasn't spoken at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u75	Procedurally, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u76	Look, this is a typical abuse of procedural proposal. Especially since Mr Gorenak has been at odds with all Members in his views, and particularly with me, I could not answer him. Now, "moan" here, so he can't discuss it with others. Excuse me, Vice President, it's time and time to warn you that they should stop abuse of the motion. This is my proposal directly to be implemented, but not only to listen to the call that it has this opportunity to keep jumping into the debate. Let's wait for the debate, Mr Gorenak and everyone else, and you'll be able to argue. As I am waiting, I look forward to coming in line so that I can finally argue with you because you have held a debate within the position instead of presenting the position of the Group of Members. But that's basically how you wanted to discuss it with me in some way. That's what I wanted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u77	Thank you. The word has magic. Lilliana Kozlovich. Get Mrs. Nada Brinovšek ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u78	Thank you, Madam President. Well-known representatives of the government, the minister, colleagues and colleagues! The essence of today's interpretation is essentially Haradinaj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u79	Peace, please. Please, if you could just calm down. Here you go, Mrs. Lilliana.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u80	Thank you, Vice President. The essence of today's interpretation, at least as it was written, is Haradinaj. Of course, I can't help it either, even though many of the things that have happened in this matter have already been explained today. If we look at what the powers of the police are in this situation. The police are tasked with preventing crimes, detecting perpetrators, prosecuting them if they are discovered, apprehending them and then leading them to an investigative judge. If we look at the actual situation as regards the diplomatic passport and the special mission, I think Dr. Brglez has made a very broad and detailed point, although I have noticed that this was also not understood and it was still said that in two days we have found that the person has a passport. It was the fact that the person was entered into the record and that the act was still valid. And it's still valid until 2040. As regards the miracle mentioned in the position of the Group of Members, it was also explained that it is essentially a parallel record which the national States have and decide for themselves whether or not to register it, even though the tyrant is still in force. If we wanted to have this, it was possible that this would have been introduced when the drafter was Minister of the Interior to his Members. So I ask myself, above all, I ask the proposer to tell me, given that the police had these facts, where the law contains a discretionary right to act differently in such a case, so that they would not retain this person and would not hand it over to the court in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Act. In all this matter, I have also had a discussion, we are talking about experts, two great experts were mentioned in this Chamber in this area, and I must admit that I was a little surprised by Mr Dobovška's debate, which said that this action at the border crossing was an act of tactics. I'm a little surprised if he's such a police expert and if that's what he's teaching the cops, then I'm a little worried. Tactics is something else. Police tactics mean that at a certain point, a police officer decides how he will act, but when he deters danger. So this kind of hole, if such experts teach it, surprises me a little. Unless I get an answer where this discretionary right to act differently is recorded, I can only find that the police have respected their principles enshrined in the law, namely the principle of legality, the principle of professionality and integrity, and in particular the principle of equal treatment of all persons. I'm even more surprised because yesterday we witnessed when the police were called upon to close the borders when it comes to migrants now, to separate people and to prevent entry, to close the borders on terrorists. On what grounds? Does it say anything to anyone at the head? How can the police do this, how can they select it? Today, we are witnessing that someone who is on the record should not hold it. Here I wonder what kind of police we want. One that will select and decide after some discretion, who will be held back and against whom will act, or who will treat everything equally. As a result, I wonder what was the situation in the police at the time the applicant led this police, how it was done. And more importantly, yesterday I was surprised by the Minister's suggestion to deceive people not to say lies. So let's put it this way, like Jelko Kacin said something was done, even if it wasn't done. And at the same time, the call for him to step down. I have to admit, I don't understand these things unless the motioner understands things. That is why I do not believe that there is any responsibility of the Minister. Once again, the police have acted lawfully and in accordance with their powers. On the contrary, I think the Minister has proved her ability and knowledge in these times. In fact, she passed a mature exam in managing migration. We discussed this all day yesterday, although someone said that he had not heard – probably because he was not in the hall – how ready we are and what measures we have ready and that both the safety of our citizens and the refugees and all the assistance we need are ensured. We've been discussing the police work report. We've all supported him. We said the police work was excellent. But I think it's also the minister's thanks that it's such a report. Especially since I think she's been dealing with things that haven't been solved in a while. All thanks or praise goes to the question of how economic crime is being investigated when we look at how the bank hole is being investigated, which we will soon also consider, not to mention that it has dealt with certain cases in the area of criminal law. I read that since 2008, and 2010, 26,000 criminal proceedings had to be resolved. And this was closed last year. There were gunfire issues that were so problematic. And then there's stuff. I've also heard here that the police are such that someone else has the credit for adopting some kind of marriage. And also someone who said they deserved some money from the police. But I've been taught in my life that a medal and a bullet never hits the right one. And as far as the material situation in the police is concerned, let me say that the minister managed to win 87 million in a single year. Let me say that she has managed to win and has achieved that 150 jobs for indefinite periods will be at the state border, 100 people have been allocated to education, another 178 further jobs for indefinite periods at the state border and a new 152 jobs for a certain period of time. These are the achievements of our minister. There was talk about information technology, about Tetra. Tetra is being trained or renovated and will be better in the next three years than may be expected. In addition, she has adopted and prepared a strategy for the development of police work when we say she has no vision. We accepted it until 2025. I think it's all the credit of our minister. She says she's fighting for the cops, but I think she's fighting for the safety of our people, our citizens. And because of its functioning and functioning as a whole of the police, Slovenia is one of the safest countries in Europe or even at the summit and has a very high reputation. Let me also allow myself, as president of the Internal Policy Committee, to say that in the beginning I really sensed the Minister's restraint and her rareness, but I quickly realized that this is a person who is not a man of words, cameras and glitter, but it is indeed a man of action, and it can be a lot of an example. I think it's her job that makes us feel safe. That's why, Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u81	Thank you. Mrs Nada Brinovšek has the floor to prepare Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u82	Madam President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall! The complication with Haradinaj has undoubtedly led to a huge decline in reputation, mainly abroad. That's an indisputable fact. I hope we all agree on that in the vast majority. Maybe someone doesn't want to admit it out loud. But I probably didn't say anything new. In fact, we fall down and fall down on all scales of competitiveness just in one way or another. We just have to accept this case once again, that we have been embarrassed, not only at home, but in the general international public. This complication has undoubtedly also affected economic cooperation between Slovenia and the Republic of Kosovo. But I do know that you, as well as you, as a well-respected coalition, are convinced otherwise. And the esteemed colleague Jan Jenko, with regard to economic damage, look at the newspapers and the media and what website you can see. As has already been said, the Kosovo Assembly adopted a resolution condemning Slovenia unanimously. [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u83	Order, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u84	I think this is really bad for Slovenia. If you don't see something bad in this, I'm very sorry. Never in the history of this so-called young Slovenia has it happened that the highest authority of one country, the representative body, has accepted such a conviction against our country, our Slovenia, as we like to say. We're nothing. And also Madam Minister, you don't feel responsible. More. You did not respond to this event at the time, even though the Slovenian police illegally seized the freedom or diplomatic passport of the former Kosovo Prime Minister. I cannot imagine how you would act, my dear colleagues, when you would like to mock here, if this happened during the time of John Janš's term or, I will say, I can imagine what would happen. In your words, Madam Minister, at the hearing in September, I will quote: "I must also say that I have no doubt in my managerial and organisational competence, and also in view of the fact that this is a very important resource, I am aware that the function of a minister who leads the work of such an important department as the Ministry of the Interior must be based on the patient delegation of tasks, the management of crisis management and the in-depth negotiating skills." And you went on to say, "As has already been said, my internationally acquired academic education will also be useful within the participation of this ministry in the creation of a common European security policy." I wonder, Madam Minister, you are nodding now, perhaps today you still believe those words that you said back in September at the hearing. Unfortunately, I have to say, I don't believe you, but probably not here behind me, because there is no way to understand these abilities from your work. Not only is it not possible to understand your abilities, but it is not possible to see you anywhere. We are not only reading this in our client, as has been said several times today, this is also reported to you by the media, which are somehow always favored by the coalition. And that's what your boys, your cops are telling you. Such an important issue or topic that we discussed yesterday or we are also talking about today is the refugee crisis and economic migration, we always see your Secretary of State, Mr Šefic, and you are very rarely, or after reporting to the media, only one day after the event. If you could just stop by the police department you're running. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u85	Please, for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u86	By no means can I pass the fact that the police still do not have the basic conditions for work. [[…]] He doesn't have the right shoes, he doesn't have the right computers, he doesn't have the right rolling stock, which you promised in September that after your performance it would be completely different. Certainly not enough for an officer to get one apple, one fruitabella, two sandwiches and two bottles of water in 26 hours of uninterrupted field work. Plus, they pay for their food and drinks themselves during overtime. But you're nothing, just an ominous compliment to your boys for doing their job well. I don't know how long they'll be satisfied with just "thank you." I don't know where the reward for their overtime is, and what you think about breaking the law, it's in the field of labour, and I'm thinking of your police work here for over twenty-four hours, say twenty-four, twenty-six or even more. I also want to know what's with this statement that police officers should be excluded from the status of public officials you filed at the hearing session itself. There's probably nothing new about this. At that time, you added more different flowers at the hearing, such as the urgent need to strengthen action and cooperation with local self-government. Now I'm asking you if you've done anything in this area. As far as I know from the field, you haven't done anything here. You also said that you are aware that there are excessive bureaucratic procedures, which keep police officers too busy in offices, and that you will do everything you can to ensure that police are provided with optimum working conditions. What have you done in this area? If I sum up somehow, dear Minister, it is clear from your explanation that you do not recognize your mistakes, but from ours that you have made a mistake and that you have still done nothing to the benefit of the legislation and to improve the conditions of yours and of course our police officers, who so care for our safe and peaceful lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u87	Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor to prepare the mag. Branislav Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished secretaries of state, colleagues and colleagues, and of course Mr Gorenak, especially because he waved at me, that is special love, you know. [[Laugh]] So, I'm gonna be serious. The motioners have tabled an interpretation against the Minister of the Interior, Madam Magi-respected. Vesno Györkös Žnidar. They see her as responsible for arresting or arresting former Kosovo Prime Minister Haradinaj at Ljubljana Airport on 17 June 2015. The arrest was carried out on the basis of the 2004 Interpol tyranny, which is still in force and is due to be valid until 2040, but relates to crimes in Kosovo at the time of the war, which is between 1998 and 1999. The fact is, in this case, the police have acted legally and professionally, in my opinion and in the opinion of many who have already spoken today. In her work, she also respected legality in this case, the true principle of legality, the principle of integrity, the principle of equal treatment of all and other principles. In the interpretation, the applicants state that, at the time of the arrest, the obligation to act on the basis of the implementation of the Law on State Border Control has been abandoned and that the provisions of the United Nations Convention on Special Missions have not been complied with. As a result of this, Slovenia is expected to suffer greater damage by reducing its reputation in the world and our companies are therefore expected to suffer greater economic damage. I don't think any of this was true or none of this happened. Of course, the applicants disagree. But it is also true that if we agreed, there would be no reason to submit this interpretation. I would have said the following, even though they already talked about this fellow today, but I have prepared myself for this too. I think it is important to say that the police, at the time of the arrival of the multitudes of refugees, the multitudes of refugees seeking refuge from the war, and that — now Jana has disturbed me a little — should be acknowledged and given the opportunity. And also to the minister who directs the work of the police and who has other important tasks at that time to focus on those matters, but not to sit here today, that there was an entire ministerial assembly, that 90 of us were burdened with this and even work because of such unnecessary matters. I don't think interpolation is justified, and I won't support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u89	The word has magic. Branislav Rajić. Get Mr. Franz Jurša ready. I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u90	Thank you, Vice President. All in attendance, all in attendance! Dear Minister of the Interior! I'm not bending. This interpolation is absurd. And when we go to the theatre of absurdity, I imagine the following scene: the Minister of the Interior returns home after a long working day, takes a shower, and before he goes to bed, dressed in a bathrobe, takes Interpol's tyrants and gets ready to edit the lists. Unlocking verified, it finds that there is a search engine which, for example, has been removed from the list of suspects in Austria, then calls the Ljubljana airport and all border crossings and orders border police officers not to follow the mandatory procedure and to release it without delay. And I want the police to apologize for waiting while checking to prevent an incident that would have caused damage to our economy. Then the Minister continues to show up in the Skyp sleepover in the latest reports of national television, with modified facts and false references to the nation's soul and calm it down, disconnects from Skype and in the Calendar with ease of disconnection another day when she has avoided the trap of interpolation, because if she does not do all this, let her just drop out of the ministerial office because she is not capable and is not serious. When the Haradinaj case took place, for the first time, a police officer at the Ljubljana airport performed his duty well. Secondly, cooperation with Interpol was flawless. Thirdly, the investigating judge acted exemplaryly. And finally, the whole procedure was carried out in accordance with the law. All of this has been deliberately misused by today’s promoters of unnecessary interpretation, however, in order to get public attention and thus get a few more hours of television promotions. However, it is clear to all that there is neither logic nor conditions nor enough contaminated Members to make interpolation meaningful and successful. No one in this Chamber, except those who are forced into this party or vindictive, and probably in our country does not believe that our Minister for Home Affairs is responsible for the temporary receipt of Interpol's search. On the contrary. She explained the circumstances and infallibility of the procedure herself, and also in the current circumstances of the refugee crisis, she is well-managed by the Ministry of the Interior. Let us look at other countries whose internal ministers are exploiting refugee issues for promotion only. Vesna Györkös Žnidar does not do this. Isn't that all respectable? But the opposition is not pleased with the success of the new government and must be shot at with all the cannons, even if it is fired at in the open. Not even when the cameras are recording. The Government of Mira Cerar, whose important member is the Minister of Home Affairs, has crowned the first anniversary of its work for the benefit of citizens and for the satisfaction of all its supporters with very encouraging results. It seems to be a pleasure not even to be extremely happy with government opponents. I am particularly pleased to highlight the word when I look at the third extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly one year ago when we confirmed the Government's ministerial team. It is recorded in the magnetogram of the session, and then I am the parliamentary novelist who remembers the theatrical tone with the call of a hidden threat in a statement by my colleague, Ljub Žnidar of the SDS. I quote: "Honored! I won't support this list of ministers myself. I'd like you to check in with me over time in a year to see if this decision I made today was right or wrong. I will be extremely happy if this decision of mine was incorrect." End of story. It is time to ask my respectable colleague this question, but – why? Your bad forecast has failed, the government works well and after one year of this government all growth indicators are upwards. The Minister of the Interior is also responsible for the emergency situation of the refugee crisis. Slovenia's response to the crisis has been assessed as exemplary for all countries of the European Union. So it seems to respectable colleague, considering his statement a year ago, that there is no need to hide exceptional joy about the success of the government's work, absurd interpretation in spite of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u91	Mr Franz Jurša has the floor to prepare himself for the Mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I'd like to say hello again. Given that I have a minimum time to discuss, I will only say a few things for which, I think, it is good to say them, if of course I succeed. True, though, it has been so much said and man cannot say anything new at all. However, I will say something that has also been said partly in the position of the Group on the history of interpolation to the Minister of the Interior and why I said that this is the tenth jubilee interpolation in Slovenia alone. First of all, because I wanted to say that out of these ten interpretations, as many as eight ministers were intertwined, two were Virant and Kresalov. Well, there is also our esteemed colleague Vinko Gorenak among the interpellants, and you promised to say something specific about the feelings you had when you were interpeeled, and unfortunately you didn't say it. And let me also say that we have always been in the coalition when we were in the coalition, but we have supported the minister who was intertwined all the time that I am here. There is also something about love that they will not think in public that there is some love between our Ambassador, Marjana Kotnik Poropat and Dr. Vinko Gorenak. You know, that's love, because at the time, Marjana didn't vote against the interpretation of Vinko Gorenak, and we all did. So much for knowing this situation, because in the five interpretations I, as a Member, also participated. I said that we were and that we were standing for the minister and that the reasons for the interpolation that you mentioned were not for the interpolation. We could talk about that there is also a partial objective responsibility, but we can almost say that there was no partial objective responsibility either. You know, that was just as you said, colleague Vinko Gorenak, that was a right-hand run when you were interpolated. And here's a run on the left and on the right. So we can compare this to both sides. You've been interpolating too fast, you're a little nervous. We'd wait, maybe something else would've happened. [[microphone assembly]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u93	The word has magic. Andrej Shircelj, get Mr. Matjaž Han ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Today, this agenda item discusses everything and, of course, how good the current government is, what happened a year ago, all the feelings come from a day. I will try to follow the content of this interpretation itself and also to make my views known in this regard. Some indisputable facts are cited in the interpretation. I think that these indisputable facts are sufficiently clear and well-spoken and also in the background of some legal basis as well as opinions, which, of course, I will talk about later. The first thing we can say here is that Mr Haradinaj was not detained, but was deprived of his liberty, as the Minister has told us and explained in this regard. That he was briefly detained on the grounds that he was followed by a tyrant in Serbia and Montenegro, on the other hand, he was released from prison in The Hague. Perhaps the matter is very simple and banal and may allow the possibility that someone has forgotten to press the Delete button on some computer and that is why there is still a red light. This is, of course, the first part of this story, and in any case, it can be completely banal. However, sometimes some banal occasions may also represent, for the first time, an act that is not in conformity with law and, secondly, they have some consequences in the economic, financial and any other area. And that's probably what happened in this case. There is, of course, one question, including what Mr Brglez said about international law and so on. At that time, conditions were not met for Mr Haradinaj to be granted diplomatic status. There's already one question to be asked here. Those who know or know a diplomatic passport, we all know that it is written there on the other hand that, in fact, the President of a country by the Minister of Foreign Affairs is included, asking the State authorities of another country to deal with it in the most possible manner I will say fair. Now I am not reading this, I am doing a renewal of what it says, and after all, it is the duty of all state authorities or, I will say, the recommendation of all state authorities that what it actually says be respected. Here the main question now arises regarding this diplomatic passport, why, in fact, Mr Haradinaj did not request or propose that he has diplomatic status and immunity. I'll ask you a different question. Why he was not questioned by the State authorities on the basis of that provision, which is on the other hand, whether he has immunity and whether he requires immunity. When he demanded immunity, he received it immediately, only within two days of being held for two days. I don't think it's a duty in any way, I'm not going to say that we're referring here to some legal basis that if someone comes with a diplomatic passport, they can simply ask. When asked when he was deprived of his liberty, he was granted immunity and then the court actually found this immunity. Here is the issue of immunity, however, when Kosovo diplomacy also intervened, when it sent all that they demanded, and then, of course, Mr Haradinaj was free again. And here's the question of what's actually going on here. And this is also described in this opinion on page 6, or I apologize, it is not an opinion, but it is an answer to interpretation, and then there is an opinion on page 6, where it is also legally very loose — if the person at the external border refers to privileges and immunities and exceptions, then the border guard may request the submission of evidence regarding the status of that person and so on. And if he's asked about it, of course, it's easier to even refer to it. But then what is also legally slightly in the air — from the above and also according to the legal theory of international law — is that only a valid diplomatic passport does not mean automatic recognition of a person. So something's coming out of something here. This is why I am talking about the laxity of this opinion, because this word "comes out" does not mean that it is. That word actually means that it could be said that way. But this status is essentially in half or the trail is going into diplomatic status, it is said that on the basis of the diplomatic passport itself, someone can already have a recognised status to actually say it. This is where this complication occurred, and here we are talking about the Minister's objective responsibility. I am not talking here about the fact that the Minister for each border crossing must in fact be personally responsible, but it is an objective responsibility. If we are talking about this and the consequences, then we must say that it is a country, that is, in this case Kosovo, which is recognised by the United Nations, has therefore convened an extraordinary meeting of their assembly, which is why there has been an appeal to the embargo on Slovenian goods and it is clear here that these are the consequences of all that has actually been happening here with this complication. Perhaps this complication could be more complex, especially because it took two days, because this could probably all be arranged at the request of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but this did not happen this way and we cannot say that there were no negative consequences for Slovenia in this case. That was complicated. And because this was simply done, of course certain damage occurred. As we look at, as well as some of the legal bases for police action at border crossings, I can also mention the guidance on how to examine persons with diplomatic immunity. Here in 1994, we have a regulation, a directive that sets out what a police officer must do in such a case and how he should actually act. In a way, there are legal bases here. But it is true that if you don’t admit it immediately and even if you don’t want it to happen from someone you don’t want it to actually happen, then everything is meaningless. And this is probably where the police should be, and when the phone calls were made, it happens so that, we can say, in a way, there would be no scandal. As I said at the outset, there were many other things that have been said, interpellation is one of the possibilities that the opposition has to control the government, to control individual ministers, and it is a political element that exists in every country and is absolutely nothing wrong with it. There were a lot of them. The coalition defends the minister or the government, the opposition in some way challenges it and presents the reasons why this has actually happened. And if we're talking about the legal basis of why this is, here we have to say that we have the so-called Vienna Convention on Immunities and Privileges, I think this is from 1948, and of course this Vienna Convention applies. And in this connection, we have a constitutional provision where we are talking about the fact that international rules in our country are actually enforced. So it's justifiable interpolation and everyone here can have their own opinion. But you can't deny this to us as the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u95	Mr Matjaž Han has the floor to prepare Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The fact is that this interpellation stands legally, that it is a tool of the opposition, which it can in some way always file. However, in the light of the experience of the SDS in this House, I have the feeling that they threw it too quickly and threw it away very quickly and that it was not the best luck for them. And what's interesting is that they have quite a few police experts in their ranks, and I'm going to mention Vinko Gorenak. If this interpolation were really the right thing to do, believe me, you'd be a proponent and you'd have a hand for two hours in the air. And she doesn't, because she's having a hard time defending this interpretation in a professional way. Politically, then, everything can be done. We can also interpel the ministers politically, because they will not greet Mr Janez Janša or Mr Hainz, and we can also interpel him. I know that they wanted to relax the foundations a little bit in the SDS with this interpretation of this coalition, but they were not happy, because even those of us who don't really understand the police work, if we read the document written by the SDS, and the party of New Slovenia did not sign it interestingly, and if we read the Ministry's reply, only if you can read it, but if you can think logically, you have to say that this interpretation is not good and that the Minister is absolutely unable to leave her post because of these actions. I was quoted twice as saying that when the police arrived in this house, the minister should know. I still think that's true today, and I don't think that's supposed to happen. As you may recall, it should not have happened when the police officers with Providence stopped Minister Kresalovo on the highway. That seems absurd to me if we're some serious country. Still, she's a protected person, she has to stick to the rules of the game, she has to respect the laws and so on, but, you know, this logic just doesn't work, it says, we control each other. On the one hand, we commend the police for having done excellent work in recent days in Bregana, Rigonca and at these border crossings. On the other hand, we criticize these same officers for doing the same thing by law in Brno, the same officers. We all know how organized the police are, we all know how organized the army is, we all know how it is, how it works, how it works, how it works, and so on. And we know what powers the minister has in the case of the police. In the case of the military, we know the Minister can't say what to do, how to proceed, and so on. On the first and second reading of this interpolation, the minister responded very nicely, or the ministry. And I'm going to read, for people's sake, that I'm going to read that people are going to understand what these police officers that we're criticizing today have done. "In the context of the implementation of the basic border control procedure, a policeman inserted a passport into the reader of travel documents. Therefore, the passport and the holder data were verified via the national database, the Schengen Information System and the Interpol database. The latter recorded a valid international search against Haradinaj, the so-called red notice, "red note", which was called upon by the National Central Bureau of Interpol Belgrade, Serbia, on the basis of a court order of 8. Ten. 2004 to 2049." Now tell me, the one you know about police work — I don't — what should that uniformed police officer do when that computer reader writes that information to him? What's he gonna do? Is the secretary calling? He doesn't know the number, he doesn't hope to call her, and so on, he can't call her either. And there's a gentleman here who writes something -- what should he do now? You want me to let him go? Should I tie him up? [[…]] They did everything by the book, I'd say. Yeah, the cop did the book. Everything! What am I supposed to do? Tell me what the police are supposed to do. We're a little double-faced here. And I could count it. Indeed, it will be crystal clear to those who wish to read the Minister's reply that the Minister cannot resign for this reason. But it's normal for you, it's fine for you to file this interpolation, but you didn't get lucky. And we're not here, nor are we, when you say we're more like Social Democrats in this coalition, we can't vote against the Minister, there's no way you're normal! The other two readings. Okay, reputation in the international public. Yeah, that's your abstract look. Yes, you can. I'm sure we didn't win any respect for them, and I agree that somewhere else we probably don't. But we followed some laws. Police officers in Slovenia stick to some laws, and that's fine with my terms. As for the economic damage, I listened to Andrea, I agree. We won't be able to assess whether this move was worth it or not, and we'll know it in a year. But we know until the day this happened, what was the exchange between Kosovo and between us. Exports, imports of this data are clear, and I propose in one year or from that day in one year we will see whether this change has decreased much, much more. And even if it gets much bigger or much smaller, we won't be able to say that it's because of the minister, because if she gets much bigger, we'll say yes fine, Minister, let's just close one of the two because our economy is growing. But on purpose, I'm not going to advertise on this refugee subject because it's not today's topic. This interpellation is drawn to the tail, it won't work, but you have the opportunity to interpret many other ministers. I think, given that you have knowledge, let's try a little harder to make it a little more tense, because it's too easy to defend. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u97	He has a word, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer. Get Dr. Jasna Murgel ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Vice President. Now I finally got to the point, and I'm gonna be able to say something, given that I didn't have this opportunity under the rules of procedure before. I'll start like this. In history, some Members have already discussed this today, there have been, in all, 30 interpretations. I must say that this is one of the worst interpretations in the history of Slovenia in the National Assembly, for one simple reason which, of course, I will also argue further. My friend Gorenak, I suggest you write everything down, and you'll end up saying what you think. What matters to me is, above all, that if at least at his own interpretation, which he has experienced and defended here in this House, I have it before you, you do not have it, but you will have it printed then, it is appropriate, unlike your writing, and more importantly, it is based on one particular issue which, I say today, should not be interpolation at all, but we should if not because of another, because of subjective responsibility simply give up. But today we have the subject of the Minister's interpretation, so it is right to focus on this issue. SDS is not a party who can't write interpretations. That, I hope everyone understands. Finally, two thirds of the interpretations in the National Assembly were written by the SDS, and it is clear that they have actually received a phone call that made it clear to them that they need to trigger this interpretation in order for the time and timing to come in September. But the fact is, at the time, there was nothing clever about being caught and it was like having a father-to-mother story that happened by accident, which you've all been discussing today, and I'm going to try not to touch this topic, except in one piece. Most importantly, it seems to me that we know that there are also some guidelines or some parliamentary practice, what interpretation really looks like. Whether you like it or not, the current Prime Minister of the Government, once a consultant to the National Assembly, has made it very clear when and on which basis the interpretation also holds. And I'm going to give three reasons, and two of you are completely missing, and the third doesn't have any arguments, because it's not about this interpolation or we can't even find it. One of the circumstances to be considered is the severity of the act or event itself. What are we saying here? Or is that the i-tip that happened, and we say that now it's quite enough, because in the meantime there's a hundred more things coming together, but until the interpolation is put in, is this one of the events that happened and then we weigh it. And I'm not even gonna weigh it today because it's not worth it. What is the gravity of the actions or events taking into account the entire past work of the Minister and of the Ministry or social spheres which are directly or indirectly within the framework of the Ministry's activities? In here, Mr. Gorenak will say he's talking in his head, and I'm reading, and that's why he's smarter. I'm just, you know, those who write need brains for something else, not just to talk about speaking out there behind a pay phone. This seems important to me that this third element, which he mentioned, in this case is negligible, how far the act or event from the minister is, is very important for the SDS, because they very much like to hang things that didn't happen at all at the time of the ministry, but outside, and then what they all glue together, and then a little "popo" comes their lab, what great documents they throw out and – here it is, the interpellation is here. Of course, interpellation is an instrument that is urgently needed for the opposition, one of those who checks, we know something — the strength of the coalition. Not whether the minister will go or not, in history only two ministers had to go, but also because the President of the Government gave the green light that this could have happened because otherwise it couldn't have happened. You know what cases I'm talking about. I'm talking about the case of Zoran Thaler and I'm talking about the Bandja case. Otherwise, ministers don't fall on interpolation. Because otherwise, you would have to fall, if you remember, because you had a solid coalition that stood the curse behind you and defended you to the end. However, it is important to open up the questions that you indicate within the interpolation. However, you mentioned one problem within the interpolation, which today, except that you mentioned it, and then get on with everything else. What have I been listening to here? I think she was a colleague of Dimic's who even talked about family violence. Yes, dear God, where did you put it in the interpellation, I didn't see it!? Then inside you discuss Article 12, who is informed and who is not, about quotas, about refugees, one even refers to refugees. Please, you know, and your group leader knows very well that if anything happens, you can complete it. But you haven't even worked so hard to complete the interpolation yet you've pushed all that inside what you're saying today. You haven't been able to do that. Of course, I don't believe you're incompetent, because I always praise you for being good at this, but all with one clear purpose. Look, it's so cheap, and you're really not going through this whole Parliament, it's not going to work. And that, Mr. Gorenak, you know that. For me, however, one key question is that of Mr Gorenak alone. It's important for the whole thing to know the following, be careful. The first to sign under this interpolation is colleague Tanko. And I said, maybe now I'll finally see Tank's interpolation lead. Oops, I was wrong at the first press conference because I saw Grimes there. I said, oh, shit, they gave Grimes, so he's gonna have to teach Gorenak what and how things run. In the end, I see here, everything turns wrong, Anjo Bah Žibert, who is performing. I said, what's going on? And in the end, of course, a revelation, and Mr Gorenak explains his position. In fact, the only one who knows anything about this thing is Mr. Gorenak. And it draws us all together here a little bit by the nose and makes a fool out of the whole story, because it knows that nothing will come of it, except that it took time for the ministry, nerves, securitization and those who are first in Parliament, you think it might be bad for ratings or anything. No, it's actually a show that's rude. It is not appropriate, however, because it is being invested or even advocated by the former Minister of the Interior, who knows what the hell these things are and how they are. That seems unworthy to me at all. But as I said, you know, everything spoken into oblivion and everything written down in history. Thank God my interpellation stands, and if you compare it, Gorenak, you can finally learn something. I'm telling you because you're the only one here who's capable of this darkness. Okay? Did I give you enough credit? I hope I get something in this story. Finally, let me say the next thing that seems very important to me, I still have enough time to mention it. Since you have already mentioned so much Haradinaj and so on, I hope that we all know, but today no one has said much about it, why is it that this tyrant, which some are talking about, has actually been said to be some kind of trust or, as Mr Grims has already stated, which no longer exists and so on. You all know that it is a political manifestation that Serbs really need, I will say, something that they can use for internal political accounting. Because they say, look, we are chasing him internationally, because we all know what relations Kosovo and Serbia are like. But the problem here is that it is necessary to ask why then Slovenia nevertheless takes account of this terrorist who is on the list. First of all, there's some kind of arrangement. And last but not least, these arrangements need to be respected. It is some mutual trust of all members within Interpol. However, what is important is that this and other past experiences can show that it would be appropriate to show that the Government changes its internal protocols, but only to reflect. What you will do is your problem or make a decision to make things better or to prevent such a thing from happening — as much as you can. This question around the computer raised by Mr Gorenak, and I think it is a very tricky and tricky trick, because he knows well that whatever you answer in this question, he only flies to writing a new interpretation. In fact, they're looking for the one they're trying to get out of the den. Make up your mind whether you answer or not. All I know is that today we're throwing away a lot of words for nothing, and in the end, it's all going to be the way it was. I'd rather be home dealing with my family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u99	Is the text by the representative of the proposer, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, for As a debate? [[...]] Okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Your Honor, an unrelated Member. I see you're already losing your nerve. It's really bad for me because you're looking for a way to get somewhere and to say otherwise, I'm going to pretend that you're going to be able to sit in the National Assembly again; but, you know, you're not talking about the interpretation yourself. Nothing at all. Moreover, you have allowed yourself to comment on who, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, is its proposer. What are you doing? Now you're going to be in command here by the parliamentary groups, who's going to have a position, who's going to be the proponent, who's going to be the one who can do the interpolation, who can't?Oh, my God! What are you doing? Last but not least, a little bit of a joke, Mr President, it seems to me that this device is not working very well because time was not running out for the SMC Group. Because the fact is that this was somehow a way of getting closer to this parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u101	Would you calm down, please? Dr. Jasna Murgel has the word to prepare for the mag. Branko Grimes. A replica? Procedurally. Procedurally, Mr. Jani.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u102	I don't have a replica because you can't replicate it. However, I would ask the President to protect the integrity of each Member in this National Assembly. For the time being, I am still disconnected, the machine works, because if it does not work, act and respond to Members and restrain at least the cultural level that is decent and must be in Parliament. Personally, you don't touch me, but you insult a lot of other people because you think their IQ is really low. It's not. At least you behave if you already feel like I'm not.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u103	I'd like to ask you all to try and talk about interpolation, about what's being invested. At the very beginning of the debate, it was particularly pointed out that we adhere to the text of the interpolation. This text could be supplemented by the Rules of Procedure, but it has not been supplemented, and please insist. At the same time, I would like to discuss the arguments in the debate and not attack each other. However, I certainly think this last procedural proposal is appropriate, but in order to be fair, I might not already know how many times to use it in this debate, so I will not use it now. Dr. Jasna Murgel has the word, get ready for the mag. Branko Grims and Mr. Simon Zajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is clear that we will support the Minister of the Interior in the coalition. We have also talked a lot about how Mr Haradinaj was being dealt with. This was valid in Interpol's system. The problem is, as we have already found, that Slovenia does not have a separate national base of tyrants, and the rules of Interpol do not oblige it to do so. Therefore, Haradinaj was not detained elsewhere in Belgium or Austria and therefore did not shine lights in other countries. But with us, the police had no choice, and we've heard that a lot today. She shouldn't have done anything other than hold Haradinaj and refer him to an investigative judge. Even less, the secretary had, dared, or could have affected a police officer at all. He had no right to influence a police officer because the police are independent of their work. Such a procedure has been in place for many years and has also been in force during the time, Comrade Gorenak, when you were also Minister. You didn't think it was wrong at the time. You had a little time, you had to chase down the protesters, what dispatches Interpol was set up here and there, that then some procedures took a little longer, investigative and so on. Today, the Minister's interpretation reveals that the police have worked too closely to take into account the current warrant in Interpol's system. What are the police supposed to do? [[adverts from benches]] Please, the President would have voluntarily decided not to consider the tyranny, or should the Minister have told him to decide not to follow it? [[…]] She also said she shouldn't have done it, and she never would have done it. Further proceedings, when Mr Haradinaj was handed over to the investigating judge, were under the jurisdiction of the court. What happened then is no longer under the authority of the Minister of the Interior. The police didn't do anything wrong. If we had a separate base of tyrants, it might be different, but maybe not. Perhaps you would still remain this tyrant inside the base of international tyranny. But the national base is not an obligation of countries, but we can decide whether we may be in Slovenia – I personally believe that this would be useful, and we can talk about it in the future. [[…]] But the point is, the police did the right thing, so there's no objective responsibility of the minister. We have also heard a lot about the fact that the Minister is not doing well, is not fighting for the police, so some data compared to 2010. The number of employees in the police has declined steadily since 2010. For the first time, this trend stopped when she became Minister of Vesna Györkös Žnidar. 2010 we had about 9 thousand employees in the police force, 2014 was just over 8 thousand, 8 thousand 74. Currently, there are 8 thousand 74 employees, so 152 state border supervisors were additionally employed. On October 1st, it begins with the higher education programme of 100 candidates for police officers. The funds for police equipment have also increased. These were 3 million in 2012, then 2013 slightly less than 3 million, this year more than 4 million, 4 million 370. In addition, at the time of the end of the year, the Minister provided an additional 7 million funds, which were used for the regular functioning of the police and emergency investments. Funds for the purchase of police vehicles have also increased. Procedures are currently under way for the purchase of 51 vehicles worth almost EUR 2 million. Following the procurement procedure, 57 additional vehicles are procured for the needs of the police worth a million euros. So, the Minister is working hard, and not only is she working hard, she is very successful at obtaining new jobs, increasing material resources, and also in the 2016 and 2017 budgets, there will be a marked increase in funds for the Ministry of the Interior and especially for the police. Thus, we cannot say that the Minister is unsuccessful in her work and does not care for the Ministry of the Interior and especially for the police field. That is why we believe that interpellation is, I also believe that interpellation is unfounded and I will support the Minister and I wish her much more success in her further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u105	The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Get ready, Mr. Simon Zajc and Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u106	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! There were many of you who said that this interpretation was at the wrong time. But who made that decision? This interpolation was filed months ago. He continued to decide who prepared the answer, which is the Minister herself, then the Government and, of course, the coalition, when she decided when she hit the agenda. This is said to have had absolutely no effect. Personally, I am sorry that this interpolation was not much earlier, for the Minister herself has repeatedly said that this matter is quite simple. If it's that simple, then why didn't she prepare the answer first? But of course, why not? Because she knows that the matter is by no means simple. We had a lot of respect in Kosovo and a lot of sympathy, so let's say our soldiers who participated down in the peace operation never had any special problems. This is how it was done here, but after unnecessary sympathy, we have wasted it. That's how Slovenia makes enemies all over the world. The Kosovo Assembly met, adopted a special declaration condemning Slovenia, its conduct, called for boycott, which was economic damage. It is difficult to assess, but it has undoubtedly been, because this call was public, reflected, reflected not only in Kosovo, but also in Slovenia and everywhere, where the people of Kosovo are working or living today. So the effect was undoubtedly catastrophically bad, and the most ridiculous is why it happened because obviously someone was looking a little bit too far from where he's from, where he's got sympathy and didn't act fast enough. It was an act, but only after so many days of congregation meetings. If a little would have been desirable, if it had turned a little faster, the matter would have been fundamentally different and there would have been no such echoes. So, no doubt, the damage was great, the damage was for reputation, the damage was economic and it is objectively the responsibility of the minister. However, this responsibility is something very interesting, which we are now observing the second day in a row. If we say the police do well and work with extreme efforts, then the minister says how well they do. But when the comment was that, say, the provision of police not only limped, but was limited to sabotage, that people worked after 26 hours and received any sandwich or toast a little water and were dependent on local bikers driving their pizzas at their expense, and in their organization - I ask you nicely - whether it was the organisation of one police – then the minister lifted her finger and said, "You know, between me and the police, he is also the director of the police and he is responsible for the work of the police. Madam Minister, decide whether the Director of Police is responsible for everything and also has all the credit for the quality of the police work, for the persistence of the people on the ground, for their self-sacrifice or not, and you are responsible for everything. But it can't be that when there's something good, it's the minister who's responsible, but when there's something bad, there's the director, and he's responsible. But it is called double standards at home — and without offense, that is not really the way to do it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u107	The Minister of the Interior has the floor, Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u108	Thank you, President. Since today is the second day of interpolation, I have to tell Ambassador Grimes that this trick you just performed is mine. Yesterday I informed your group that it was you who were doing this to me; that when the police were doing it right, it was a police matter, but when it wasn't doing it right, it was my business. That's actually where you use what I said. This is in fact another example today, because I have seen that the same story was the same in the interpretation lodged against Member Gorenak. In fact, today, Ambassador Gorenak told me that he was afraid that I was the Minister of the Interior, but in fact Mr Möderndorfer had read it to him when the interpretation was against him, and he said, "I am not afraid of the police, but I am afraid as long as you are the Minister of the Interior." Let's freshen this recycling up a little bit so that we don't repeat ourselves, because people have a memory, too, which is just one year in politics. I am glad that part of my hearing was read today because I have already forgotten this dictatorship. The reference was "temporary delegation of orders". And that's the essence of the answer to your findings when you drag Secretary of State Chief back to the surface and report him appearing at press conferences. I tasked him that as the head of an operational group dealing with refugee issues, that is, operationally, when he talks with suppliers, with the Protection and Rescue Authority and so on, very operational details to inform the public. But you don't expect him to come to me after this meeting and report to me about the number of tents, everything they're talking about, that I'm going to tell the public. I think it's clear to everyone that the Minister doesn't have time for this sort of thing. Lilliana Kozlovich, honourable Member, has beautifully listed everything that has been done. I don't think there's any need for it to happen again. But there's only one thing I'd like to add. One key information has not been given, namely that the police began stagnation in 2012 – we know who was then the Minister of Home Affairs – and it was only in 2014 and 2015 that trends slowly started to turn up and we are also optimistic that we will succeed in the cumulative deficits that have accumulated in recent years, in some way, to recover. As far as reference to status is concerned, it's still kind of coming back to me. Mr Haradinaj was not referring to the status either to a police officer or to a court of law, so the police could not have been in any doubt. Police duties are deliberately predetermined precisely to ensure that the lawfulness of police work is subsequently exercised. And who should ask someone a question and similar undefined concepts are by no means part of the concept of a repressive body, which must be very controlled. Today, an event related to investigations in the National Assembly or in the Government was also mentioned. At that time, I rejected the findings at the expense of the police, and I am still behind them today. I think that the only recovery of these events can be in the fact that we agree that it also manifests itself clearly in the face, that the police are completely depoliticized and operationally autonomous under my leadership. As I said at the time, the Director-General of Police informed me of the investigations after the investigations had taken place. We know how it is reported, Mr Gorenak, you are well aware of the event and the state of the matter, not the operational data of the police investigation. By then, I had already said, the investigations were conducted in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Act. Last but not least, the police acted on the basis of a court order issued by the investigating judge on a proposal from the Attorney General. At this stage, we can only say that the police are obliged to act by order of the court and do not have any discretion, because at this stage it is also a situation where the investigating judge has already assessed the grounds for suspicion and so on not to repeat. In short, what is essential at this time is that the existing legislation does not provide for an exception both to the National Assembly and to the Government. It is foreseen that the chairman will be informed, of course this has also been done. I also think that it is inappropriate for you to refer to your colleague Han, because he understands the situation, he knows what the autonomy of the National Assembly is and he is also very well aware of the constitutional principle of the division of power. Some countries have the arrangements we have, some have different arrangements, but this is neither a police matter nor a matter of the Ministry of the Interior. Last but not least, we are not carriers of the Criminal Procedure Act, and in this sense we cannot react in order to set specific conditions for us to carry out investigations in these premises. Of course, if there is a political will to regulate this, so as to set specific conditions for the conduct of investigations in these respected institutions, it might be appropriate for the National Assembly to start dealing with this issue, because our police are achieving excellent results and also enjoys a high level of public confidence and the police are the most supervised institution in the country and do not defend this control, because I believe that any further verification of police operations is just an additional lever to confirm the legitimacy of the police. However, this situation is a model example of an objective fact that the police are not only a huge system, but also a very sensitive system that must operate in a stable environment, and this includes a clear definition of the delimitation of powers and consistent respect for legislative arrangements without political interlocutors. The next thing we know throughout today's debate is that police unions, or alerting them to some irregularities, or we already know that logistical supply complications, which were immediately eliminated, were resolved and normalized in such an extraordinary event and in such a large mechanism as the police. You know, I'm very reluctant to listen to the National Assembly about the Police Union because I think it has a very important function. The purpose of the police union is to act in favour of police and police officers, but I am very pleased that we have stopped talking about cops, to talk about cops, because today we have talked about cops to some point; yet they deserve respect. Trade unions do not belong to each committee, because the police are still being led by the Director-General of Police at this time, but it is only right that they are present on issues such as the financial situation in the police and have also been present. Already this discourse around these unions and their influence and nutrition and all this in fact shows that the trade union movement is being abused. Now, on whose side he's being abused, I leave it to you to judge for yourself. Just clearing up the logistical complications of providing police with food in the media and in the strongest possible way we are now witnessing, and it is still being attributed to us, it is very damaging for our police officers and police officers, because it reduces the value of a police profession moving away from a key burden at this time, and that Slovenia has shown, on the basis of the work of our police throughout Europe, that we can keep the Schengen border, which, last of all, I am extremely proud of as Minister. I will also respond to Mr Dobovsk's statements regarding the care for the development of the police. I think it is more than obvious today that an improvement in the situation in the police is one of my key steps after the adoption of the mandate. I will not repeat my work, as regards the budget, I will not retangle it with a number that the police should have an additional €87 million if they are to meet this budgetary perspective, as we send it to the National Assembly. However, here I must point out that the current Ministry leadership is very aware of the fact that police officers should be paid for what they are doing. I am talking about the so-called reference periods – you, Mr Gorenak, will know what it is. Right now, police officers will receive the overtime they paid in 2010 and 2011 and have not been paid. I'm talking about over ten thousand hours. I think that my concern for the police is more than obvious that it has been proven that the clear proof of what we have experienced today is evidence of my concern for the police, in fact, that Ambassador Dobovšek has begun to own this achievement as if it had been his achievement. [[…]] I think this is unacceptable, but I also find that the police union is actually being abused. As far as the police are concerned, there is still something left for me, and I do not want it to somehow stand out, given that honourable Member Gorenak has somehow made a defensive appearance in the beginning to know the work of the police. Here I just responded to what you said yesterday, you said I didn't know him, that I didn't know what the police were doing. But, you know, here's where I'm going to warn you about something else; you're saying I don't know what the police are doing, and I'm actually taking a step forward. And I said I knew the law of the police, you know, because you forgot that I came from a law profession, that I came from a courtroom, which actually means that there's a spear breaking down there. In the courtroom, spears break when a lawyer and a prosecutor and an independent judge face each other and convince them whether the police acted lawfully or not. You know cops in the field, hits in COBISS and abstract thoughts and articles, and if they're still not good enough, it doesn't help the cops in the field. The police need a man who knows what the legitimate work of the police is, who also knows who can make a forecast of how the judge will end up deciding like that last chain or the last article in the justice chain – you know very well that the Balkan warrior was very sensitive to the police. These are the key elements that are then used both for monitoring and for directing the police to actually reach a legal verdict, because this is actually the basis of the rule of law. You also mentioned that some teach abroad. I don't know how, but I'm going to tie myself up here because I remember -- but it's not important, but I'm going to say it -- I'm also invited to Harvard, but because of this migration problem and because of the great responsibility I'm carrying, I'm not going to teach at Harvard for the second week; they invited me right to teach on the topic of national security.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u109	Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Chairman. I am obliged to answer at least some of the things that have been exposed to how some in the National Assembly today want to build the police, while others are on its side and are constantly working for the good and development of this police as such. Let me remind you of something, Your Honor. Soon after the beginning of the mandate, we had an internal affairs committee where we found together that the situation in the Slovenian police is more than worrying. More than worrying! At that time, it was somehow a unanimous decision to convene a meeting of the Committee on Home Affairs on this subject. The proposal came from one of the opposition parties. Do you know what happened? The meeting was indeed convened, both the MPs and the police representatives and the trade unions, which the Minister is talking about, how important they are and how important their work is and probably their opinion. What was the result? The meeting was suspended, and it started before that, because coalition parties did not want to discuss the state of the Slovenian police at the time. This is a response to your concern about improving the situation and better status of Slovenian police officers! One more thing. On my question, Minister, which you didn't know exactly what I was asking you at the same time as many others, I also highlighted this topic and called on the National Assembly to have a public debate and to discuss thoroughly how we can improve the situation even if anything goes wrong in the future. The fact was that we had already faced a manna of personnel, poor equipment and many other unacceptable situations. Do you know what the vote was? You refused to do that, too! So please do not make money, how much care you devote to the state of the Slovenian police and its improvements. In view of what the Minister said, and also in the debate, it seems to me that there are always new questions that I would really like to get an answer to. On the one hand, we have heard that the convention we have been talking about does not hold, on the other hand, the tyrant is holding. Now, please convince me or me, Minister, how many times has Mr. Haradinaj been in Slovenia or has he crossed Slovenia since 2004? How many times?? There is something else, given that everything seems normal to you, how the process went on, and we all know that the 2004 tyrant was issued on the basis of a country that no longer exists, and this is certainly evident. Tell me if it was not apparent from the passport that Mr Haradinaj had travelled smoothly all this time. Did the officer who looked at it not even doubt that the data might not hold? I do not believe this; I believe that he warned his superiors, informed them, and then the procedure took place as it did. Here comes your responsibility. And that's the problem! You're responsible here, you want it or you don't want it. I'll be really happy when you answer that question. For when we know how many times he has crossed the Slovenian border or visited Slovenia in one way or another, it will be much clearer for us and, above all, we will be able to know exactly why this interpretation is more than justifiable.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u111	Mr Simon Zajc has the floor, to prepare Dr. Vinko Gorenak and Dr. Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u112	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament! I remember June 24th when this interpolation came out. When I found out that the SDS client had filed it, I was sure that I knew which minister it was – the one with the SDS drawing on it from day one. After seeing who it was about to be the secretary, I was, to say the least, surprised. Why? What was wrong? What did she do wrong? After I read the reasons for this interpolation. When I'm listening today to why this interpolation could somehow shift the main points of why the minister has to go, into four points. The first point is because, in the case of Haradinaj, the police acted absolutely legitimately, right under the Criminal Procedure Act. Because she has done what is expected of the police, as is expected of the police, and therefore the Minister should resign. That's the first argument why we should go. Secondly, because the refugee and migration crisis has not been used to promote itself politically, but rather to organise the Ministry of the Interior. In this case, the Ministry of the Interior has, we have to admit, it worked well and in a coordinated manner, so that we were all well informed, so we felt safe, so there were no incidents at the borders, because all migrants and refugees were treated properly, respectfully, as necessary, and there were no situations, as was the case elsewhere when they had to be reconciled with the tear gas and so on. Of course, there have been some problems with logistics, but there is another problem. When it comes to such a big deal, it's just a thing that can happen, and it's definitely not a reason to give up. But there's a reason for you to be better prepared in the future, and I don't think we're going to have these problems in the future. The third argument why the Minister should go is that she finally began to regulate the situation in the police, as far as the personnel and equipment are concerned. For many years, the police were taking off, there were no new personnel in there, everything was falling, it was falling, it was falling, and then the minister, not only stopped it, she turned the trend upward, and that's now, today we're listening, the reason that she has to go. We're not normal! The fourth reason is that she did not respond immediately to this interpolation. I have to thank you personally here for not answering immediately. Because if you remember the July session, how many points we had, and what important topics for the country were then, I thank you that we are discussing this today and not when it was really important, and that we were not wasting the time we are wasting today, for things that are not really important and should not be held at this meeting today, but I think that, by allowing, we can all endure this more easily than we would have at that time in July. A great deal of success in working for the future and thank you for waiting for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u113	The word is given by Dr. Vinko Gorenak, prepared by Dr. Mitja Horvat and Mr. Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Given that I haven't had a word since morning, and given that I was – I think – about 42 times with the name and surname mentioned, it is expected, the President, that I will be a little longer and respond to everything you have mentioned 42 times. I also agree with what the predecessor said. If it's okay for you to interpret today, it's okay for me, but then don't complain about why we're also talking about current events. Then that's the logical consequence. If I go in order now – what I wrote down. First of all, Mr. President. You spoke then as a speaker – I think you will have another chance to answer me. But look, I didn't understand what you were talking about. Indeed, you have stressed that interpellation is not legally justified. But interpellation has no international bases. Interpellation based on the constitution, interpretation based on the rules of procedure. No international basis is required for interpolation. I don't know how you mentioned it, you said it twice, even in that record I see it. I'm going in the right order, just like I wrote it down. Mr. Matić said that I urged yesterday's minister to lie in front of the cameras about what a good security situation is. I didn't do that! Now you've invented this, this is some new invention I've heard from you. I said that the former Minister of Information, in particular during the war, listed some border crossings that were not even there, but he wanted to calm people down with this. I didn't expect this from the minister, but I expected the minister to step in front of the cameras and tell me what the real situation was, and she was gone for three days. That's what I said yesterday. It needs to be precise. Mrs Jenko, you were talking about, now she's not here, but I didn't get the words before, she was talking about the legacy of this tyranny by Serbia. It's like Serbia is the heir to this tyranny. I understand I may have a bit of an advantage today. I've got the upper hand, because each one of us has been working somewhere. You know where I used to work for me, too. However, I find it difficult to accept some of the performances of Members – you understand what I mean – that are set in order to spend time, not to say anything. And this performance was typical. If the state of Serbia were the successor of this tyranny, then Vukic would not say: we have nothing to do with this. The President of Serbia said: we have nothing to do with this. It's not our thing, it's Slovenia's thing, but it's something weird. It is clear from this that he said that Serbia has nothing to do with this tyrant and there is no successor to these tyrants. Minister, there's a very ugly union record here, it's now appeared during the interpolation. I'm not even going to mention him for a basic reason, because this is that Petrov's union, which at least worked for me during the interpolation, is a very serious problem and I'm not taking it seriously. I'm not taking this seriously. I was threatened by a strike, and I don't know what happened at the time of the interpolation, and then even the strikes started. Even that's what they did. For nothing because they didn't have any reason. That's why there's nothing special about this. The fundamental question that I asked you, which is why I wanted you to answer me, because I also said that I would suggest to the group that I withdraw, if you answer, but it was where the "curschlus" is after home. If we have a central computer in Lyon, to which all the police of the world or all Interpol members are connected, and how can this same computer be sent to the State of Belgium, France, England, Austria, Germany, wherever you want, with the same passport and the same person, that it does not have to be caught there, and in Slovenia it is necessary to arrest it. You tried to answer me and you mentioned some protocols. That's what I'm going to say, Minister, there's a headquarters in Litostorsky right now - I hope it is, and I believe it is, and it's right that every minister had it. You didn't get any good information from there. I don't think Mr. Funk has them, either, because he was a long-standing criminalist and never dealt with bullies. But the answer is not okay. I would say so, the answer should probably be in the direction of who, when, where should I wipe the slate? That's where the answer should be. But that's not what they told you. I have an advantage over you, because I know the system, I realize that I have this advantage over you, but they haven't told you that, and probably not to the Director General of Police. There is a person, there is an institution, there is a legal procedure by which a tyrant should also be for Slovenia – the same as for Germans, English, French and so on. Someone's been keeping it a secret. There's nothing special about that. If the protocols were to apply what you said, then Wolf wouldn't say what he said. But the wolf said, "That's none of our business, that's the thing about Slovenia. Something strange is happening in Slovenia, he said. And he added that Haradinaj has traveled 50 times with this passport. If the protocols were in force and some specific agreements between Slovenia and Serbia were in force, then Vučić would not have said so. You haven't answered my question – you've talked about Mr Šefic running things operationally. Opla, a little awkward answer is that. Why is that an awkward answer? The boss is a politician, just like you. If someone had to lead operationally, then it's the chief of police – I think so. I do not insist that you should lead, but it is a little unfortunate, because Mr Šefic is also a politician – if you want to say that politicians should not run this. That's how I sensed that you were going to say that politicians shouldn't lead this, that this thing is operational. The boss is a politician, just like you. You didn't answer my security question in the part where I said you were afraid of yourself. You didn't say anything. And then I don't want to go after you again because it's from this morning. Look, the devil is, there are literal records. It's such an awkward thing. Then you can see, after five years, when someone pulls out a thing, what you said, and they hold you to your word. Do you know what you said this morning? About this I have particularly looked at the magnetogram – that the interpolation does not apply, that it is all despicable and so on, and that for you interpolation means an attempt to take over power beyond legitimate constitutional possibilities. Do you know what you said? Yeah, well, we didn't come here with guns to remove you, but with guns! This would be an attempt to illegally remove you from power or anyone else. Interpellation shall be legitimate, the Constitution shall record and specify in the Rules of Procedure a means of control of the opposition over the position. If you, the President, thought that interpellation really sucked, because you could throw it in the basket and say, "Come on, break it, it's not an interpellation!" But I think you did the right thing by putting it forward, because you have to put it forward, so it's in the constitution and in the rules of procedure. I mean, I really don't understand, because you're a lawyer, and you say Harvard, I don't know what else. Okay! But would you then explain in Harvard that you have experienced an attempt to take power by the opposition beyond legitimate constitutional options? Would you say that there? Wow, how we vow! I'm not reading that. I think you've missed a lot of awkwardness, because I'm getting away with something. But you said that, and you said that I didn't know the police. That's why I responded. I'm not telling you that you don't know the police. You didn't work for the police. I only told you this morning that I hope to know something about the police and that you probably won't be able to know so much about the police because you're supposed to be there for four years or less, but I was 30 years old. That's all I wanted to tell you. But I was hurt when you told me that I didn't know anything about the police or that I didn't know what the police were doing. That's why I reacted. I'm glad the overtime will be paid. Just tell me why. You have to tell me why overtime will be paid. Because that's what the court decided, and it's a disaster for a cop to work overtime, and then he doesn't get paid. It's a disaster! It didn't happen to me, you said it right, it happened in 2010, 2011. 2010 and 2011 the Ministry of the Interior had the most beautiful, because we know, Mrs Kresalovo, and then the smartest minister in the image of Mr Zalar when she left. That's when the overtime started. These were also top-notch lawyers, the best in the world who didn't pay overtime, and the police have now claimed that. What do we want now? [[Incomprehensible]] I did not leave you with such sins from 2012 to 2013, because at least at the time of the mass demonstrations we have taken a very clear conclusion in the government that things must be paid in full, and if I am not mistaken, that decision is still valid today — or not. I don't know. The protection of people and property is called, or it was called, when it was in force. So, they blamed it, but these were the ministers who here were the central parts of the Chamber with Mr Möderndorfer defending up to disability – Mrs Kresalovo. It's a reality. I believe you know the work of the courts. As a minister, you also know or know — you know, okay — the work of the police. Yes, because you also know the work of the courts through legal work when you represented one — I don’t know or more protestors against the police. If I were in this position, I don't know if I'd go to this position. I wouldn't take the position, but that's the way it is. Another answer, please, because I wanted an answer this morning, and I didn't get it. Article 12 says you must be informed immediately. You must be informed immediately. This is what Article 12 of the Law on the Organisation and Work of the Police states. I'm asking, when were you informed? Have you been informed immediately or is it true that your Secretary of State was previously informed from you and he led the matter to the police? If I go to the other Members who have mentioned me and my name. Mrs Kozlovich doubts Mr Dobovska. He doubts him, but he is not in doubt, but abroad invites him. I don't know what's bigger than that. They have more weight in my opinion than Mrs Kozlovich. I would expect her to be a former police officer — and I would like to congratulate her on her progress. Indeed, even at the time I was alone in Cyprus, she did these tasks and achieved all that she has achieved to this day. But it would be nice if you could help the secretary solve that riddle. That would be very nice if you could help. That, yes, how it appears on the computer in Ljubljana something completely different than there. In fact, because she — why do I mention her? She knows it, she did it once. She used to do it, and she did it physically, and it would be very good if she tried to help the minister. It is not so good, however, that he now doubts Mr Dobovsk. In that mention, however, I was expressed enough to save the Minister's skin. Well, that's okay, 'cause that's the job of all of you sitting here in the middle. Mr. Ducky. The police in Maribor overstepped their powers, he said. In addition to the environmental expert, he became a police officer – I see. Maybe since he had his procedures in Maribor. But I can assure him that the police have investigated everything internally, and there was no irregularity. If there had been irregularities, the current Minister could have introduced what kind of audits she would have said was wrong. And I didn't hear that, so I think everything was fine in Maribor. This has also led to internal audits. But I have none today, but really no comments on Mrs Porotatov. Why? For a fundamental reason, because it has very correctly summed up the interpolation and the answer. She correctly summed up the interpolation and the answer, what if she told me. Mr. Rajić, you went to do an ad with that story about the minister who came home all exhausted and before going to bed and what you said to Hudiman, you said the minister didn't order the cops. [[…]] Yeah, because I didn't order anything around signatures either, and you know how they nailed me to the cross, damn it. For three hours Jani Möderndorfer had time — it was all my fault! That's how it was. But you've done a good job of advertising yourself, you know. Mr. Jurša, you explained it correctly. You explained it correctly. Mrs Porotat just sometimes gets a little wet because she doesn't know if she's in the coalition or if she's in the opposition, you know. True, she voted in favour of interpolation, for my resolution. It's true, it happened, but I don't know if she was wrong or if she pressed the wrong button. This is one option, and the other is that her heart beats more to the left. But you were in the right-wing government at the time, God help you. I don't know what it is. Mr. Han also said a lot about me that we threw "shish" on the table. You know how many more I have in here! [[…]] There's a lot of "shishes" left. And I think other colleagues have MEPs too, so there's gonna be some "shish." Of course, he also got involved in who has the position of a member group, who is proposing and so on and so on, and he wanted to see me as a proposer, but not someone else, you know, I'm extremely proud, and there's a whole bunch of people around me who specialize in this, one for that, one for that, one for that, one for that, and one for that, and one for that, and one for that, and one for that, you can put anything in your hands, and it's gonna happen. [[…]] The fact that Mr Grimes had a press conference is just a case because I was home, and I have a hundred kilometers and he's 20 kilometers. But he's done a great job. He can do anything. The fact that Mrs Anja is where she is, that is, in the role of proposing, I am also very happy, she has very well presented her views. Actually, she's here right now, and I'm going after this term because I won't run anymore, so I'm leaving the National Assembly and I'm glad they're coming. So you're going to have problems with "shish," Mr. Han. It's very interesting to get involved in who should be the proposer. But he also talked about Mrs Kresalov, who was stopped. I don't think they stopped her, that only the radar detected her, but the other didn't, if I'm not mistaken. [[…]] He says, it's an interesting phrase – you know, it's so nice, because then I'm going to write a book, and I'm going to pull all these flowers out if the National Assembly still has it in the archives, and I think he's going to have it. He said, "if you're normal, you can't support interpolation." Interesting. Look what he did to my interpretation The essence of my interpretation was lost signatures, but, look, KPK said in writing: We don't know where they got lost. [[…]] The inspectorate said, "We don't know where they got lost." Crime police said, "We're investigating, we don't know where they got lost." The information officer said, "We don't know where they got lost." They've done all the procedures. So whether they got lost in the National Assembly with Mr Virant or with me in the Ministry of the Interior. You see, in such circumstances, it is a very interesting matter, but Mr Han has supported the interpellation. Very interesting. And he supported the interpolation. Today it is not; it is said that he was not normal at the time when the interpolation was supported. Then he was insane if he was normal today. Yeah, he's gonna have to tell me when he was sane and when he wasn't. I don't know when he was with him; if he was with him today, then he wasn't and vice versa. Mr. Möderndorfer, look. As far as I know, you have negotiations with the SMC to enter the SMC. They don't want you there, do they? That's how I read in the media because I don't know how it goes with you. But Mr Möderndorfer is the leader of the parliamentary group and Mr President of the Parliament-voluntary, the Horvat and the President of the National Assembly – this is how they were listened to! I think it was an admission exam, and I think it was my admission exam. Then he gave another procedural one, and the president of the National Assembly said that it was worth it. It is said that Mr Möderndorfer is well on his way to come to you or perhaps he has not yet passed his exam with what he has been saying today. Maybe he'll have to do it again. Well, that's how it is. But he was talking about Gorenak's subjective guilt for signatures. Subjective. I carried them in my bag - probably, didn't I? But what did it look like? He lost them somewhere, didn't he? Or maybe they fell out somewhere, or did I put them out on purpose — or what? That would be subjective guilt. You see how smart he is. He is also in spite of the findings of the KPK, Inspectors, Crime. To the service, the Information Commissioners are here from the town of Mrs Lipitzer's rohnel. He knew everything about my guilt, and he knew everything about the innocence of the procedures in the National Assembly. You see? He was good back then, wasn't he? Today, of course, he has things to say and he also has questions about who's doing something to us, whether it's Mr Grims, whether it's me or Mrs Anja. He's very upset about that, too. Yeah, that's an interesting thing! Mrs. Murglieva, look. No, not you tried to say, of course, that Slovenia could have a separate base of these international tyrants, but that it is not necessary and so on. That's not part of the answer. I was very serious this morning when I spoke, and I recommend that the Minister sit next to me after the vote, and he will explain his word to you. It's not that kind of thing. That's not even a joke. Since you speak, there can be no separate bases that are incompatible with the central, except in certain specific cases – but I will not explain. The dispatches didn't get lost at my place. No dispatcher got lost in my place. Now you just waved me one slap because it's nice in front of the cameras, but I didn't lose anything, so we're on the clear side, and there was no losing depot. I'm glad you mentioned the college program that's about to begin. Just with a little correction that it's my fault that it's gonna start and not the secretary. The Minister implements what we wrote in the law in 2012, and it is nice to implement it, I agree with everything. In fact, if we have these, I'll say, teachers with college or college education, then at least the police should have a higher school and be paid that way, and I think that's the way it is. I have been working on this for 15 years, and I must admit that I wrote about this for the first time in 2000, but it didn't work until 2012. And I'm glad the secretary's doing it. You gave her credit, and I didn't. Here's my comment. Police resources; I am very pleased that this is the case if you succeed. They're urgent! The essence of the question, Mrs. Murgljeva, you were a judge. Let's not admit, what did Mr. Klemenčič say? [[Incomprehensible]] Tell me what you think. Indeed, Mr Klemenčič said that even if Mr Haradinaj's court handed over that he would not allow it. Tell me the legal basis. Just tell me the story. And the article, and the law, and I'm going to go look for myself by which the minister can say - yes, because you'll have the option of replica, well. Find it fast! - that the minister can say he can't turn himself in. I have another question for you: Does this involve interfering with the independent work of the court? Please, come on, for that answer. Really! Would it be interference with the independent work of the court if the minister said he would not acknowledge the court's decision? The Minister and I have already agreed, I have not been given the opportunity of replica, Madam Vice-President, and I will also take advantage of it further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u115	Replica, Dr. Milan Brglez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u116	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you misunderstood me. In fact, you were only talking about when I said that interpellation wasn't internationally founded, but I made that very clear. I threw away the fact that it was founded on. And this is a violation of the United Nations Convention on Personal Missions. That is exactly what I have rejected, at the same time proving that the diplomatic passport itself does not constitute any status and that the sequence is very important: the existence of a diplomatic passport, the existence of a certain visa that has nothing to do there, and only thirdly the question of the existence of the tyranny itself is raised. This is only a third matter which is important throughout the process. What is important is that this diplomatic law is today, as well as the issue of immunity, from how diplomats can be exempted and thus, I will say, such representatives of the former or present countries, will always stop today in the face of the worst violations of human rights. In the worst of crimes, if they are accused of something like this, this immunity is no longer sustainable. I am very pleased that this country is the one that is recognised at this point in the international community; and if this point is recognized in the international community, then these authorities must act in a proper manner when certain signs are identified in the process. And only further procedures can deny or deny this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u117	Thank you. Dr. Mitja Horvat has the word. Prepare Mr Igor Zorčič, then Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u118	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Dear Members, Members, Minister, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests! Thank you very much, Mr Gorenak, for making us a little burdensome after all these hours of hard work with regard to interpolation, because we will be doing better and a little bit of what I think he will do after this term has ended, on another programme, and I am already looking forward to it. A number of questions have been raised and I am glad that you are all here already, so that after today's performance you can fall for me with all the cannons. But there are some things that I have to say in the National Assembly, especially as you always say, because people are right to know. Article 118 of the Constitution can indeed, as stated by you, trigger an interpretation in the National Assembly of the work of the Government or of the individual minister. The second paragraph, however, says, "if, after a discussion on the interpretation, most Members of Parliament say they do not trust the government" – I repeat, as is the case with you in general – "if, after a discussion of the interpretation, most Members say they do not trust the government or the individual minister, the national assembly of the government or the ministers." The Rules of Procedure also regulates the question, paragraph 250. That's right. "At least 10 Members can interpellate about the work of the government or the individual minister" – this part you have released – in which a clear and reasoned question must be raised..." This is probably what you thought if Mr Möderndorfer did the exam for today. As far as this is concerned, of course it is – but to know the rules of procedure. So, "in which a clear and reasoned question must be raised which is the subject of interpolation". And I'm going to skip a little bit and I'm going to article 3, paragraph 252, which has already been offered to you today, otherwise you've conditioned that you'll propose, but there's still no answer then, whether it means a commitment or just a proposal that the Group of Members will not accept. In fact, the applicants may withdraw the interpolation until the end of the discussion on interpolation. This would be an honorable exit for you today, which the Minister has also made clear to you in her replies. In short, we have these options, they remain open. Just as you and the Minister have offered us, so I also offer you to withdraw the interpretation, because the Minister has responded more than qualifiedly and clearly to all the indications which, on the other hand, are still such that they need to be taken into consideration a little bit. In the beginning, you are talking about the reasons why the interpretation of the work and responsibility of the Minister of the Interior is mag. The village of Györkös Žnidar. At the end of this work, you propose to adopt the following decision: Master Vesno Györkös Žnidar is dismissed as Minister of Home Affairs. It won't hold. Interpellation does not relieve the minister, but it is a matter of confidentiality. If the confidential person is not voted on or is not voted on by a non-disclosure, then the National Assembly shall determine that the Minister has been dismissed. Therefore, I do not find the question referred to in the Rules of Procedure and, of course, the proposal for a decision is not in line with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. If I forget the reasons given in the explanation of the actual situation, the very interesting story in this part on page 3 is the third paragraph that this complication will have a negative impact on economic cooperation between the Republic of Kosovo and the Republic of Slovenia, thereby causing enormous damage to the Slovenian economy. As you said, you can extend the interpretation of work to any question that has arisen at this time, even to current questions, of course, as mentioned above, you could also complete your interpolation and offer numbers, as you like to say, accurate information on how this general statement is expressed, which is given on page 3 of the explanatory memorandum. You also say that the Alliance's political party for the future of Kosovo has launched a boycott campaign of Slovenian products in Kosovo. "It is so undeniable that this complication will harm the Republic of Slovenia, both in terms of international reputation and in the economic and political sphere." Nor would it be bad for us to provide more accurate information at this time, where and where it is shown, after we have received praise from all the real ones for the normalisation of the situation and for the improvement of the indicators. It is also on page 4 of page II. The fact that there is an irregularity in paragraph 4 is of interest to the thesis that valid tyrants must comply with the conditions laid down in this Treaty. Most likely we can't report this to the Minister of Mags. The spring Györkös Žnidar, that's her job. You also say that Mr Haradinaj was on a special diplomatic mission. She rejected these allegations very clearly because it was only later in the process. If I skip a little bit, I won't be too long, otherwise I'll be responsible under III. You state the reasons, it is a pity that you did not then, in the form on these pages, put them at the end among the reasons why you believe that the Minister is responsible. In fact, the first statement that the Slovenian police illegally took freedom and seized the diplomatic passport was rejected by the minister. That's not true. The fact that a direct liability has been given for the suspension of the duty to exercise control over the implementation of the State Border Control Act and for the withdrawal of its diplomatic passport has also been documented. As well as being responsible for reducing the reputation of the Republic of Slovenia. The fact that responsibility has been given for the political damage caused by relations with the Republic of Kosovo is most likely an indication that the Minister would not even be able to report it, even though she did well to reject it. If I try, I am not as skilled as Dr. Gorenak, under point 5, you report to the Minister that responsibility has been given for the political damage caused to Slovenian companies operating with companies of the Republic of Kosovo. Given how precise you are and how much of us you want to be precise, I would expect you to correct such things as you are proposing at the time of the debate on interpretation. Therefore, since no reasons have been given, I also call on you in this part to withdraw the proposal for interpretation, not only for the formal reasons that I have stated, because of this kind of decision you are proposing, of course, it is not even possible to put to the vote. That's why it's the best way to remove the interpolation. In view of the fact that you are discussing many of the issues that are personal and related to the Minister's work, let's just say so; indeed, you are expecting and being used to performing in particular in the media. Our minister works hard and the results of her work are more than obvious. As has been pointed out several times in the debate, all documents coming from the Ministry of the Interior regularly enjoy support on all committees and in the National Assembly in plenary sessions. Thus, no mistrust in our minister shows us to lose words. There is no mistrust, he enjoys the reputation and our full trust and, of course, all the good and all the good luck in his work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u119	Replica, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u120	Thank you, President. I'm gonna hang on for three minutes so there's nothing wrong. I can't answer everything, Dr. Horvat, but in particular, I want to tell you that I will still protect you if anyone attacks you. That's still in effect. Because you're threatened, like you said. But well, I'll try to answer you like this. The subject of the interpretation is also relatively clear – the responsibility of the Minister of the Interior and of the Haradinaj case. I think that's clearly written enough. The second part that we have written wrongly, I understand that it is not a criticism of us Members, because in all the interpretations so far it has been so, but that it is a criticism of the President of the National Assembly that he has so far let go. Then he'll have to come down again, and he'll have to explain again. That's how I understood. All the interpretations so far had the same draft decision and they all went through, which is why I suspect that the current President of the National Assembly did not make a mistake when he moved the matter forward. That's too bad. You said it was nowhere. Whether you've read it correctly or not, there's more than one possibility. There's been a lot of damage in relationships. Look, they adopted the resolution, where they said, release it immediately because you're making a mistake: for this, for this, for this and for this. This was accepted by the Kosovo Parliament, with left, right, black, white, all parties, no party opposed. No one was against it. If this political act is not in the form of a resolution, it is a kind of damage to one another's relations, then I do not know what the damage would be. Economic damage, too, has been made clear. boycott products from Slovenia, they said. Isn't that economic damage? Of course it's economic damage! You have been convinced by the Minister – now so, in the interpretation we went professionally over those articles and over those matters. But I'm all this expertise, all this explanation that's been written there incomprehensible to people, because it's incomprehensible for a simple man, because you have to get deeper, I've simply turned it into a comparison. Computer in Lyon and window on Member States’ police – same person, same passport, why would the same computer give a different result to the Germans, to the English, all to the result that there is nothing wrong with the person and in Slovenia the result is to be caught. And that's all I said. Look, the answer to that question, so what's wrong, where something's happened, we don't have it so far. I'll give it to the minister if she wants to – but not now; we haven't voted yet. You know, that's a fundamental question. That's why I said there was a possibility of withdrawal. It now exists that I would suggest this to the Members of the SDS Group, but it has not done so yet. Since she has not yet done so, I cannot propose that I should not propose this, because I can be corrected. I want to be corrected. I've already gone through. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u121	To avoid ambiguities, the proposed decision, which was in interpretation, is corrected as it must be, and that is to say that we are talking about expressing distrust, because there is nothing else we can take in this House. Only so much that this part, but here we had to understand that it was meant, even though they didn't know how to write it. Mr. Jože Tanko is most likely procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u122	Procedurally, Mr. President. Mr President, I would expect you, as President of the National Assembly and responsible for putting properly drafted documents into the legislative process, to teach at least your closest fellow Members, who talk a lot about what is right and what is wrong, that this document, like everyone else, as those sent by the Government or other members to the procedure, has been made in accordance with business rules. This is at this point essential and all those who have debated and debated so far how this should be is a question for you and you should say it. You are in charge of the session, you have accepted the document in the process, you have processed it, and I suggest that you instruct your Members how the procedures in the National Assembly are being conducted. Even apparently the most professionally educated in the legal field of these things do not know and speak nonsense. Not for the first time. No blame has to be passed on to the proposer, the SDS Group, but point it at those Members who speak nonsense. We have repeatedly warned you, including in writing, that certain procedures in the National Assembly and certain acts are not adequately prepared for further proceedings, and you said that this is the case. I would suggest that Mr Horvath, Mr Möderndorfer, Mr Han and others who speak about the various timetables and the quality of the instrument put forward should you say so. Also, with regard to interpolation supplement, tell them the answer. It's not exactly something that someone would think and waste their time here and blame the whole thing. You are responsible for the documents submitted to the National Assembly, you are responsible for processing, you have specific provisions on this and then explain to your Members if you do not want to attend an open meeting of the National Assembly, and give this to your parliamentary group at an internal meeting. It'll be very easy. But it's not that we're here listening to nonsense that doesn't have anything to do with the rules of procedure, not with the constitution, not with anything to do with anything. If anyone has made any mistake in this process, it is the President of the National Assembly. If so, then choose to criticize what is going on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u123	Well, Mr. Jože Tanko, I'll give you an answer. I'll answer you because you filed a procedural and no one else. Therefore, the President of the National Assembly can only look formally, if it is a formal assessment of the appropriateness of the document, so that the procedure can continue. However, a substantive assessment is the responsibility of either the committee where the matter is addressed or the plenary session, as is the case here. Therefore, all those who spoke earlier about the material quality of this were right, for they are part of that spoiler who is judging and deciding. The President of the National Assembly may merely determine whether all the conditions are formally met, if the document is submitted in the appropriate manner and if the procedure is carried out on the basis of this. This was done in this case. That decision, which was proposed, was amended, as it is commercially appropriate, because it was known that this was what it wanted and in this way, at least as far as these formalities were concerned, the matter was covered. However, the content assessment is a matter of the plenary itself, which is essentially a plenary session and the debate on it is not only necessary, but is democratic and desirable. But it's the decision of the forum itself, not my own, so that I can deliver such a document on my own, and then I would actually violate the rules of procedure. In response, I can only say what we do all the time, and I do not do it alone, but I am assisted by services that know very clearly the practice of this House and on the basis of this practice and of this Rules of Procedure – or in a different order – I also operate in this Rules of Procedure and Practice. At least that way, when you say that I am being attacked by this – no, it is essentially a matter of a substantive assessment of the appropriateness of the act, which is already a matter for Members themselves. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor to prepare Mr Jožef Horvat and the Mags. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u124	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Minister, secretaries, distinguished colleagues, colleagues.Oh, my God! I'd like to take this opportunity, given that I'm coming from Brežice to thank you for the work you've done so far. I think both the police and you at the Ministry have worked very hard to deal with this problem, which has somehow proved to be the most important issue in Brežice. Of course, praise goes also to the commanders of both police stations, PMP Obrežje, Brežice, Dobova and New Town. However, when we started this topic, because, last but not least, this Haradinaj case was extended to refugee issues, I can also conclude that yesterday's meeting was an introduction to this today, which is a political account with a minister who has no basis. I don't want to repeat myself. Many times, colleagues have made a very argument why the procedure against Mr Haradinaj was the same as it was. Last but not least, as a layman, it's the least weird if someone comes with a diplomatic passport, and they have a tourist visa inside; I don't know what it is then, whether he's a diplomat or a tourist. It is clear, however, that, after being checked by a police officer, the procedure followed by our rules. In the debate, I would like to draw attention to certain historical facts. This seems very important to me, even in the light of this interpretation, which I have the feeling that some kind of servility is reflected in some political currents from some other countries, from Kosovo specifically. Remember in 1989, when the Cankar home assembly was in support of the miners in Kosovo, remember the humanitarian crisis in 1999, when Slovenia again supported Kosovo with humanitarian aid convoys. Let us recall the recognition of Kosovo, which Slovenia has recognised, and not least perhaps the last visit of the Kosovo Prime Minister, who, I think, was in April, who also explicitly praised Slovenia and thanked Kosovo for its support in joining the Euro-Atlantic links. In short, Slovenia has provided enormous political support and humanitarian Kosovo in the last 20, 30 years. Last but not least, we have a lot of Kosovo's economic immigrants who have found bread and roof here in Slovenia, and if I recall then, if we go back to this case Haradinaj, the behaviour of Kosovo's parliament, which is independent, as well as those football fans who have launched some kind of pyrotechnic means in front of Slovenian companies in Kosovo, is extremely unacceptable. If I recall, we have received this in gratitude from 1989 onward. This is because the Slovenian police officer adhered to the rules and I do not understand the party which in the Slovenian Parliament gives the only support to those fans who used pyrotechnic means, then some calls for boycott. I don't understand that then, instead of being less servile, you're prolonging some kind of political mantra that started with the support of the party whose president this gentleman is. So, the interpolation is completely groundless. It is an obvious attempt at some political destabilisation of the ministry, a demonstration that anything is going wrong, but I think you have used a completely wrong case, a completely wrong case, but you have also shown that, in fact, it is the opposite of some foreign parties who have an event in Slovenia to show some kind of servility to them. I think it is wrong that we should condemn those attacks with pyrotechnic means, those attempts of political discredit in Slovenia, the boycott of Slovenian products, but not that you serve some groundless interpretation on our table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u125	The word has magic. Ange Logar, prepare Mr Dusan Radič and Mr Marko Ferluga.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u126	Thank you very much, President! I'm writing this down for our interpretation, and I'm looking for paragraphs where we can talk about pyrotechnics and servility to Kosovo and so on. I can't find it. Mr Zorčič spoke, among other things, in connection with servility, that we have many Kosovo immigrants. Now, before he utters those words in the National Assembly, I would still ask him to clarify a little bit about what an immigrant is and what an immigrant is. We can have many Kosovo immigrants, but we cannot have many Kosovo immigrants. However, many Kosovecs may have emigrated to Slovenia. In this case, I believe that if I had read in detail this interpretation that we have written, and if I had also read in detail the Minister's replies to our interpretation, then I would have voted for us, for this interpretation, as he voted on the Mandate-Election Commission at that time to postpone the decision on Mr Seljak to appoint for the extraordinary promotion of the Supreme Court in Ljubljana. As far as today's debate is concerned. Members of the coalition actually spoke as the Eurosceptics say in the European Parliament. They are criticising the European Union, saying that the European Union is weak, that it must be abolished as soon as possible, while at the same time running for MEPs. And they also stay for the entire duration of their term of office and then compete for the next term. You've been persuading us all along to see how this interpolation is meant for us to talk about everything else and how we calculated it to come at the exact time of the migratory wave. But the truth is that you spoke only and only about other things because there were arguments about the things that we put forward in interpretation, weak, and that you yourself caused the debate on interpretation on 24 September and not before parliamentary holidays. The one in this Chamber who thinks that it is difficult for members of the Slovenian Democratic Party to defend the integrity of institutions and ministers in the National Assembly during parliamentary holidays is either a political analphabet or a new Member. If I continue to discuss how this story of interpretation, in the words of the Minister, would be a great harm to the country. I don't know how interpellation can be a great harm to the country, it can be a great damage to the arrest of a high-level statesman or a representative of a country and then a diplomatic disgrace on the basis of this, but the debate on interpretation in the National Assembly is completely normal. So for ministers, because this is the lever that forces ministers to work in accordance with their powers and to be subjective and objective, and at the same time a normal parliamentary procedure in all parliamentary democracies. I find it difficult to accept the words of the leader of the largest coalition party that today's debate is, I quote, "a weak light on the performance of the constitutional function exercised by the National Assembly". How, though, can interpretation be a bad light for the performance of a constitutional function? A poor light for the performance of the constitutional function of the National Assembly can be the taking of unconstitutional decisions. You've already accepted one of these in this term. However, it cannot be a poor light to defend interpolation and to argue interpolation for the performance of a constitutional function. To return to the Minister's response. After an official presentation of the views of the groups of Members, the Minister had the floor to summarize what she had said. She talked about migration pressure, she said she wasn't on the ground because she didn't think it was important in the first days, she talked about the difference between detention and deprivation of liberty, she talked about what the minister's job was doing, she talked about the difference between the operational group and the work of the minister, she talked about the migration humanitarian problem, she said that it was not possible to throw a mandatory and voluntary quota at the same time, that we were not returning refugees, that we were not working humanitarian corridors, and that we had very good relations with neighbouring countries. I'm sorry, but when did she respond to the reports of the interpolation? The Minister has therefore spent all her time on topics that are not even on the agenda of interpretation. She spoke completely about other things, for only the last two minutes she devoted only the last two minutes to interpolation and the answer to that puzzle that Mr Gorenak had put up, how can it be that only one screen in all Member States shows otherwise. Can anyone who traveled across 50 countries without a problem with a diplomatic passport imagine being deprived of his freedom? Is it not possible to seek an answer in this regard, why he did not refer to diplomatic immunity, why he did not communicate transit and so on for his diplomatic mission? Do you believe that, for example, in another European country, it is difficult to imagine that the President of the Supreme Court violates human rights, that the Vice-President of the Supreme Court violates human rights? Probably not. And so it is probably hard for a person to imagine being arrested for an accusation, or a tyrant, of a country that no longer exists and where no such detention has occurred in any other country. So, something's wrong. SMC Members are now happily playing with the idea of offering us an honorable way out. That's really interesting! First of all, you talk about other things all day, and at the same time you're talking about how we've done some stupid interpolation, so you've already wasted your word machine gun, and after you've shot the last bullet, you're saying you're offering us an honorary exit. No, the honourable exit was offered by Comrade Gorenak to the Minister to answer the question, and the SDS Group will withdraw the interpolation! But that is not the answer, either because the Minister does not know how to give it either because our interpretation is based and the Minister has no argument. Imagine a slightly different situation. Imagine that at our airport there would not have been some former prime minister of Kosovo, a small country that had only become independent by means of a United Nations resolution, which, although important progress had been made at the time of the Slovenian Presidency – that is what Mr Zorčič forgot to mention – but that would have been there at that airport, I do not know, the former Russian Prime Minister of Kasjanov to arrest our authorities from the former Russian comparison of Kasjanov. But do you know how to imagine that? I guarantee you that the President of Parliament, Dr. Brglez, would jump to heaven and request the resignation of the Minister. In order for Minister Erjavec to convene a press conference immediately and to say, look, a normal democratic European country cannot afford this. But here the Minister is subjectively and objectively responsible and it is time to go. I guarantee it! The Chamber of Commerce would answer. My friend Zorčič would probably have called, and then the story would have been different. This separation between some Kosovo, according to Comrade Zorčič, and another country, you see, this is what undermines the constitutional order or function performed by the National Assembly and us, the constitutional function as electors of the people. In view of the need to have an equal relationship with all stakeholders. You know how it is. Bad governments defend bad ministers. Today's vote will therefore show what a coalition is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u127	Mr Dušan Radič has the floor to prepare Mr Marko Ferluga and Mrs Eva Irgl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u128	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! I have to admit, I'm a legal analphabet. However, I would like to know whether Ramush Haradinaj was arrested, detained, detained or temporarily deprived of his liberty. I don't know those terms. But I have googled, although I may be disappointed to do so, and I will tell you what Mr. Chief Player of this story himself has said, Mr Ramush Haradinaj. He said about the BBC, "I wasn't arrested. This is just a process due to the time needed to settle things with the Slovenian system," he laughs and added that he missed his flight to Pristina because of the situation. For the Kosovo portal Gazeta Express, after being arrested, he denied and said that he would soon return to Pristina: "I am not arrested, clearing the list of tyrants of the Slovenian system takes time. I'm going back to Pristina on the first plane." Moving on, Mr Haradinaj's statement for Tanjug: "The State of Slovenia is involved in why this is so, I do not understand," Haradinaj said. Now listen: the members of the Kosovo government have been identified by Mr Haradinaj as poor people who cannot make decisions and solve complications. In particular, the former Kosovo Prime Minister resented the current Prime Minister Isi Mustafa, who said Haradinaj was arrested in Ljubljana. The words of Mr Haradinaj: "It was very wrong for Mustafa, who said that I was under arrest. Where does he get the right to say that I'm under arrest, and since when is Mustafa an expert in international affairs?" Let us also look at Austrian newspapers and online portals; Kosovo Foreign Minister Hashim Thaci said about Haradinaj: "The problem is not in Ljubljana, the problem is in Belgrade. I can't go to Serbia myself, because there is also an international tyranny written for me." How are Interpol's tyrants doing across the European Union? In 2011, he was arrested in Vienna on the basis of Interpol's tyranny of a former Bosnian general, possibly a national hero, John the savage. Did the Austrian opposition intercede against its minister or Minister of the Interior? Come on! On June 10th, before the Haradinaj case, Naser Orić was arrested in Switzerland, also on the basis of an international Interpol case. Mr Orić is a gentleman who has also been pardoned by the International Court of Justice in The Hague. Is it possible that the Swiss opposition demanded the resignation of its interior minister? I don't think so. Let us return seven hours ago; the motioner said on the morning support of the Prime Minister to the Minister of the Interior: "Unheard of! What if something important happens? Will the President of the Government continue to support the Minister of the Interior?" If you don't believe it, take a look at the magnetogram. The proposing lady herself has admitted that what we are discussing today really does not deserve any attention. This time it's not about the children or the country, it's about the facts. Finally, two more excuses; I would like to apologize to the gentleman with my glasses and a similar hairstyle, that I have not mentioned him once. Another apology to all those who watch and listen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u129	The word has been given to you, sir. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, he didn't mention you in any way to quote you, so it's very hard to believe that you'll have a chance [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Procedural? It doesn't make sense because he didn't mention you in any way that you could have already rejected him. [[advertising from the hall]] . That's not enough. [[advertising from the hall]] . Let's move on. But the proponent has the advantage, that's true. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u130	Thank you very much. First of all, I thank my fellow Member for trying to interpret me – you failed! My way of speaking isn't cut out for me. But as for the content you've given — you're ridiculous. Of course, I was talking about much more important things — but, you know, which ones? To make human sacrifices, and that could have happened. And you're looking weird again. Let me tell you again that members of the Slovenian Army have been removed from the field – why? Because someone felt that way? And even though the mission is led by the Italian general – do you simply look at these things? Dear Member, I'm afraid not. Every citizen is important to me individually. And that's a problem for me! One more thing, Mr Zorčič used to explain in a graphic way that we support the boycotts in Kosovo, that we supported the incident and damage to our companies. No, no, no. Your Honor. Not at all. The problem is that you don't act when this has happened to our companies. To put your head in the sand and let it happen because of the mistakes made by the Ministry of the Interior. Once again, Minister, you still haven't replied to me: How many times has Mr. Haradinaj been in Slovenia since the arrest warrant was issued? And one more thing. Was it not evident from the passport that he had traveled all this time to many other countries? Please give me this answer, because it is very important in the matter that we are talking about today. Your Honor, do not confuse the applicants with some statements that the interpretation is not well prepared and that the conclusions are not as they should be. Take a look at yourself, though. Your laws sometimes have more amendments than the proposed marriage itself. Well, look at you first!
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u131	Mr Marko Ferluga has the floor to prepare Mrs Eva Irgle and Mr Ivan Prelog.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u132	Thank you for saying hello to the ministers, the ministers, the rest of the government's team! Today's been a tough day, it's been a little more difficult training since last day, I'd say. But as for this interpolation, there are some things that need to be said. First, I must honestly say that I too had doubts about the Minister and that I told President Cerar in person, given that the choice between Dobovšek and Vesno was such – the government has decided so, Cerar has decided so and is behind it. The other is what I told the minister personally, because we talked about this, asking her to take care of the police and that I would be very careful about that. I think we have a very correct and open relationship here, so there's no problem. By the actions that have been under way, which also indicates a hint of this — I will not quote all the money and all the means that have been made to do so — but it shows that he is really trying to care. What's this all about? The situation in the police for a variety of reasons is not ideal and these problems are not from today, but have been imposed for a number of years, 25 years, since 1991., when both the police and the army were holy and they all bowed down to it and told it how good it was and how great it was and how great it was, and then it went down, forgotten, then began to save, and the police are one of such very obedient authorities of the state, who always listens, never resists, and only accepts what they give to their shoulders. And it works in those frameworks that they give, and in those material capabilities that are available. But if I go back to today's debate and I don't want to be smart about it, I would like to give myself an answer that I somehow found myself. And I don't want to challenge you, Mr. Gorenak, because you have a long tradition there. I've worked a lot less than you in this job, which I really appreciate. But we can say this. Interpol's terror, which is based on a global database of wanted persons, was valid for Mr Haradinaj's specific person in that regard. Another important issue is that Slovenia is one of the few countries in Europe that does not have a separate national database. This is very important. Why? Because, according to national bases, individual countries can decide on their own actions on the basis of this Interpol tyranny. I hope we agree here, too. Okay. Therefore, my answer is also that, because of this, the gentleman was not arrested or held back to express himself better, not in Vienna, not in Munich, not elsewhere, because the countries of Austria, Germany and so on, decided on their own, they gave themselves that flag, which then pointed out to the police on this display not to do so. Another fact, which we both know is that the police are primarily tasked with bringing the competent judicial authority to justice. This judicial authority then further processes these procedures. Thus, the police do not in fact have the option of not deciding whether or not to assess the validity of the measure. I think we both have the same opinion here. Today we have listened to countless stories and all together, and it seems to me that we are constantly repeating this exercise. On the SDS side they have their claims, here we have our claims and we do not want to or we do not want to find some smart solution. To argue who's right and who's wrong, I don't think it makes any sense and it's a waste of all our time here and holding on to such matters, it seems concrete. As far as public speaking is concerned. If this is the measure of performance or failure of the measure or the measure of performance of the ministry, I think this is wrong. We can discuss whether certain topics where individual committees wish to have a minister present and if not, whether there are reasons for it. I agree here. Maybe this time period, this shift away from this current topic, which has been in this particular case, is also somehow divided and again loses this focus and then collects things that don't belong to it, but I just want to repeat this, that I think is the minister – they are criticisms and they will be criticisms, but criticisms also go to me probably because my work is not perfect either, because everyone who does is making mistakes. But I think it is still necessary to admit to the Minister that she has gone so far as to start raising the level of employment in the police, which is important that she fought for police resources, which is important that these basic material resources be, and if I can be completely honest, I am very happy that I have also spoken to the Minister for the sake of solving the problem in our coastal environment, which was also important to both Members, the coastal, our, SMC informed, that the situation on the Police Administration of Coper, for which I am grateful, is that we will also find a solution here. I have quite a few things written, because you know, these themes I'm interested in, just really don't make sense of this "symphany" and then what someone said, what they didn't say, whether they ate yogurt or didn't eat yogurt where they didn't, I don't think there are so many people working conscious, really conscious, who are behind these things, that then talking to you, who are being exploited, who are being dissatisfied, who are actually distorting this view given by the police to our people. [[…]] This distortion is also intended to be seen as some kind of intimidation if we speak from these migrants and migration because they are actually doing the right, professional and indeed all the protocols – this also applies to this procedure with Mr Haradinaj and all the other procedures, including the actions that have been taken in the refugee population, are clear procedures when police are able to act in such a way or other way. But only Mrs. Žibert would say that I did not see that an army in Kosovo would have been recalled, if that was what you meant. Because this is some new information for me to be called off. Do you mean from the streets or from Kosovo? [[advertising from the hall]] Well, that's why. I went to your brother's scan, and it says that 17. 5.17. 5. This is one month before this event that happened. Now, whether it's your lapsus, I don't know – it's probably – but no matter what, not even 17. 6. As far as I can tell, the army was not called off. So much for me. Thank you. Of course I'll support the secretary, and I'll look at her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u133	Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has the floor. And the replica. He's going at the same time. Well, it doesn't go at the same time.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u134	No, it doesn't go at the same time. I need to explain something to the speaker, because I guess we didn't get along. Of course, we can agree that a police officer who runs into a tyrant has nothing to ask anyone in this world, and he doesn't even have anything to ask his boss. The arraignment is a tyrant, the proceedings are now known, the surrender to the court or whatever else. But the key question, where we could not come together, is why the tyrant for Slovenia is valid, why not for Germany, France and so on. The part where you've been explaining the separate databases and so on doesn't work together. What a separate database would that be for me to be recognized as some mole of a country that isn't. Serbia has not taken over from the predecessor. Even if there was something in this separate base and it was said that Slovenia did not have it, so it was said that it was not necessary to have it, then this should be based on any different regulation with a particular country, in a particular case with a non-State. That's why these two aren't going together, and then it's impossible for you to find something other than here. But once again, because I have some time left and I want to hold on to it that there is nothing wrong, Mrs Murglovo, I ask you nicely to answer the question of what does the Minister of Justice mean by saying that he does not recognise the court's decisions – because you are a judge, you can shake it out of your hand. Answer me. He said he wouldn't admit the court's decision, that's what he said. Yes, of course, he said we wouldn't hand him over even if the court had decided anything else. And the key question, of course, was when the Minister was informed. I don't have it right now. The police were obliged under Article 12 immediately, which means the same minute or 5 minutes after that, after Article 12 of the Law, they were obliged to inform the Minister. So when was the secretary informed? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u135	Ms Anja Bah Žibert has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u136	Thank you so much for saying that. To a fellow Member who is no longer in the Chamber – Is he? Okay. –, thank you so much for alerting me to the lapsus that happened on the date. Last but not least, I think the President of the National Assembly made one earlier when he was talking about the date of the United Nations convention and the anniversary, and let's take a look at the records. I'm sure it is. But it's so irrelevant that I think we all knew exactly what I was talking about. Yes, the Slovenian Army, which operates within the mission, has been removed from the field, and I said that, I also made that clear in the introduction to the interpretation. She was removed from the field temporarily until the situation was resolved. Of course, after Haradinaj was released and could leave Slovenia, things sort of normalized. I just hope that relationships will become as friendly as they were before. But that's what happened. And it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u137	The word is Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u138	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and My fellow Members, in particular those who are actively involved in internal affairs – especially my colleague Gorenak, also as the former Minister of the Interior, who is certainly very well aware of both the police and the broader internal affairs – have very carefully explained why today's interpretation is entirely justified. But let me first talk about the question of responsibility. The question of objective responsibility. Madam Minister, when you have decided to accept this difficult work, a responsible job to take over, especially when we are talking about the role of Minister of the Interior, because you need to know that this is a country-level sector, which is extremely important, with several aspects for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, it is of course important that you are also aware of the responsibilities and that this responsibility is not only or particularly related to what you are doing yourself, let us say that you are making a mistake and that it is your subjective responsibility, but you can also be responsible for the mistakes of others, because you are the one who is overseeing a certain resource and we call that objective responsibility. But through this debate, especially through all of your arguments that you wanted to explain here, I must say that you have not really succeeded, I personally have been involved in this very question of objective responsibility when you are not really aware of what this means. An objective responsibility also means that you are aware that when a particular situation occurs, you need to explain certain things and, of course, answer them. In this case, too, through the interpolation that we have available to the opposition Members to trigger. Dear Madam Secretary! Given that you come from another branch of power, from the judicial branch of power, I am not surprised that you have a problem with responsibility. For in some reflections, the Attorney General Zvonko Fischer recently or a while ago said that the prosecution was exempt from any liability. Now I wonder, for the first time, do you agree? And secondly, do you agree, then, that it is also an executive branch of power, in which case you as Minister, that you are exempt from any responsibility? That's how you work and work, and I'm not just talking about this case that we have today as the key to interpolation. Mr Jurša said well in the position of the Group of Members that this is already – I think – the 10th Interpellation of the Interior Minister and that in some ways it must be an honor for you because it is a jubilee. You will judge this for yourself whether it is an honor or a preference for something else, but the fact is that all these interpretations are by most, not all of them, but most of them were justified and justified. Thus, the intervention of Minister of the Interior of Katarina Kresal at that time, as well as, say, the interpretation of Mr Virant, should we look at you more in return. It's the same here. This interpretation, respected colleagues and colleagues, even though you do not know what arguments and put them on the table, is justified. This interpellation is justified by the pride of objective responsibility, which none of us can assume, but we can ensure that we protect the reputation of the State, all together. But the Minister of the Interior must accept responsibility. I personally expected that this interpolation would not be – in the sense that the debate would be – but that the Minister would give up earlier, that she would recognize that responsibility was crucial and that she did not have the necessary integrity to proceed. But I'm not falling into her professional competences. I don't go into her professional competences because she definitely has them. However, I am talking about the objective responsibility that should be taken over, and on the basis of all the facts itself, not only today, but even before the illegal deprivation of liberty to Mr Haradinaj took place, we should have withdrawn the relevant sequences and left this position by then. It's the next day! Interpellation would not be necessary at all, since the Minister would thus protect the reputation of the State, the reputation of the institution running it, and the reputation, not least, of the National Assembly. Because the National Assembly is the one who confirms the Minister in this position. Interpellation, so I listen again and again, that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we deal with things that are irrelevant, every law we file is irrelevant, even though it goes in the direction of the future, to relieve the economy, if you want, to improve the situation of citizens and citizens, you always say that everything is meaningless and irrelevant. [[…]] Then it would be best to end the National Assembly, because we do not need it, we do not need a legislative branch of power. Interpellation is one of the key mechanisms of the opposition to draw attention to errors and accountability in the work of ministers. The reference to doing something smarter and more useful today is inappropriate, completely inappropriate. Because that's our job. But if this is not our job, then those Members who do not know what your job is, then choose, because you have free will, and you can do something else. But interpellation is extremely important and very important in a democratic society. That is why we have also established democracy that these systems can function and that the opposition can actually exercise some control when it is found that the Minister is acting wrong. Not only wrong when it's found to have damaged the reputation of the state. However, when the Minister harms the reputation of the State, then I think there is no longer any question whether he should remain in position or not; such a minister simply has to leave. The police were therefore the ones who unlawfully deprived Mr Haradinaj of their liberty, thereby violating Article 2 of the Treaty between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Serbia and, inter alia, violating the United Nations Convention on Special Missions. For this reason, the Minister is objectively responsible and should step down. That's the first aspect. Another aspect: with the illegal deprivation of liberty, the Minister has certainly caused a decrease in Slovenia's reputation externally, in the international public. That is true, events as well as the foreign press that reported this. It is free to move here and say that this is not true and we apologize I understand, coalition Members, that you must apologize to the Minister, but I think sometimes that good, healthy distance is needed. [[…]] For this means that we too can judge when it is right for someone to leave his position. Political damage was caused, no doubt. That is also why the Minister is objectively responsible. The damage to the Slovenian economy was caused by the boycott of products. As long as we're talking about it, the damage is caused by a well-respected minister. Here I think we should accept this objective responsibility. It is also problematic that the President of the Government initially said that everything we wrote down in the interpretation was unrealistic. This was pointed out by the leader of the parliamentary group in the position or presentation of the Minister in the morning and the President of the Government in front of her. How can the President of the Government simply say, without argument, that it is unrealistic data? Not that it is incorrect or questionable; for false information! In this case, it was neither unrealistic nor questionable nor incorrect. But it was a reality that expects us to act responsibly. That is why we have tabled an intervention against the Minister of the Interior. Now, look here, Madam Secretary-General. This is not the only sin that falls under your auspices, the problem is that we have been facing a difficult situation in the country at borders in particular recently, and you are expected to give an external sense of security to citizens and citizens. This is a key note in these times expected of the Minister of the Interior. But given that you are not appearing in public, although I must say that this observation may not be so much in place, I understand that the Home Minister must also explain some things from behind and also have other matters to settle, and therefore also has deputies who do certain things for him, but I would understand that if it were not for such a difficult situation and if citizens and citizens did not in fact have any questions. But today we are not in a normal situation, but we have a situation that is running away from citizens and citizens. Madam Minister, I will vote in favour of you leaving your post, because I believe that in large cases you should act differently, especially because you are objectively responsible for the situation in the case of Haradinaj. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u139	Mr Ivan Prelog has the floor to prepare Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u140	All in attendance, all in attendance! As far as the perceptions of the functioning of the Minister of the Interior, Mrs Vesna Györkös Žnidar, are concerned, I can say, that they have become irrelevant because of a brilliantly-ministered department whose activities in connection with the refugee crisis could be monitored by the whole of Europe on TV. The refugee crisis has proved to be a real laxum, a test that has made all doubts about her ability inappropriate. Despite the meager wages, the long-lasting equipment, not to mention worn uniforms, and the boys and girls in blue are playing their part in a dream. The envious compliments that come to her address from all over Europe are also not without a basis. Therefore, the hat down before the results you have shown in this most difficult security test for our country from independence to today, and I wish you all the best in your work in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u141	Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec has the word to prepare Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u142	Thank you. Thank you very much. During this debate on this interpretation, I think we are facing three issues: one is methodological; the other is epistemological; and the third is ontological. Methodologically, this debate, which we have been listening to for several hours now, is not federally or continuously, but after pieces, whether this interpretation is correctly filed, how it is put in, where the correctness and errors are, or is justified and so on. The second question is whether this debate went beyond the border, whether it is in some way consistent with what the question of interpolation should be. The third element within this package is the nomotechnical aspect: whether it is correctly recorded or whether the correct questions are raised and so on. All this debate has created some methodological doubts as to whether this interpolation is justified at all. The most frightening or sad thing is that it is precisely a coalition, especially a party to the SMC, in some way, that the interpretation is a tool or some instrument that is unnecessary in this situation, and so was the position of the minister. As a member of the opposition party, of course, I cannot agree to such a discourse. Interpellation is a tool, one of the minimum tools the opposition has to warn and monitor in its own way the work of ministers responsible for this national council. At this point, I think that this resolution of this methodological doubt is clear; of course, today we have interpolation, we listen to it, we can disagree with the content, but we cannot talk about whether it would be at any point disputed, because it is an instrument that is not only ordinary in parliamentaryism, but a fundamental protector that we must have. Another problem, epistemologically; the correctness of the content, whether the content is right or whether the debate followed can be wider or not. I think that this month, which followed the investment and the extra time due to parliamentary holidays – of course, things are changing. Some unforeseen events have occurred, and these events also affect what the role of interpolation is. Interpellation, however, asks about the work and responsibility of a minister. That is why we are discussing this today, and I think it is perfectly in line not only with some parliamentary practice, but also with some basic principles of democracy, so that we can also touch on additional special circumstances that affect decision-making and interpretation as such. That was a refugee issue. Today, the Prime Minister spoke about it, the proponents said about it, and last but not least, the representatives of coalition parties spoke about the refugee problem, and this is something that we must take into account in preventing the work and the responsibility of the Minister. Of course, in the United Left, we do not agree with the interpretation of the refugee crisis presented in the SDS; on the other hand, we do not agree with the interpretation of the refugee crisis and the full praise of the Minister's work presented in the SMC. But this is some point where this interpolation can also be done through this topic. I agree that the Haradinaj case may not be the worst thing this department has done this year. However, in view of the fact that the proposal was put into question by the applicant, a reasonable basis is allowed for the entry into this interpolation. The third and the more important aspect is this ontological one, so we're going to the point. The point is how it works and how it assumes responsibility for its work, Madam Minister; to talk about this work and responsibility – that is, this thing that we are here today – and then to stress our views here. Some did, some did, some did, some didn't, but I think that's the goal of this interpolation. It is said that we come to some conclusion as to whether there is any question of work and responsibility. In particular, I would like to go to some of the answers that the Minister has put in the position of the United Left. In fact, at the very beginning of her response to the position of the United Left Group, she has in some ways overestimated that we are misinterpreting certain relations and complex problems that are behind the refugee problem. Let me assure you that we are well-educated both about relations and about all the history and other aspects of the refugee problem, so we are also so aware that Slovenia's response in this case is ineffective. You have said that it is not possible to throw into the same basket of the mechanism that is supposed to apply the right setting of quotas and the current distribution of persons. Of course, I did not say that, nor did I ever mix these two terms, but I only pointed out that it was done by the Ministry for some kind of hesitation. First, rejection of quotas, then some partial compromise, consent to distribution and further consideration. What I want to point out in this respect is that it is clear that the Ministry and the Ministry are not prepared for this issue. It still seems to me that the Minister is operating on the wrong dates, as well as some other representatives of the government coalition, when it comes to migration, about the need to understand the structural reasons for migration and how external borders need to be protected. On the one hand, we have this discourse of an attack, of an invasion from the outside, of a foreign one, and on the other hand we have this – I think you have probably all noticed – the use of the word migration, not of refugee flows or refugees, in contrast with migrants. This is also an essential moment for understanding the relationship the Ministry has with this issue. The minister also said that it was a political trap when it came to the Slovenian return of refugees. I think that the political trap is exactly what Mrs Minister said, it is said that there is no return of refugees, but of economic migrants. I think logic is very simple. Migrants, refugees, after all, these are people, they can't apply for asylum in the country they want if they don't get to it. It's a basic beginning. Because of rigorous European and national legislation, of course, potential asylum seekers cannot do this because they fail to reach these countries. After our treatment of Syrian citizens, there are two problems: migrants, if you want to name them, were registered in Hungary and wanted to apply in Germany, which of course they cannot reach legally. Since they came to Slovenia, logically they didn't apply for asylum here either, so you formally, yes, returned the migrants to Hungary, but you could say that the refugees were returning. This is also contrary to the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, which has clearly raised these doubts that each country must consider whether it makes sense to return refugees to the country of origin if there is any doubt that their human rights may be violated there. This is evident for Hungary. In short, there are several facts that we should open up here today and not get so entangled in some kind of formalism and whether it's even possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u143	He has a word, Mr. Jože Tanko. I would like to prepare myself - I apologize, the proposer, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Madam President. Several times today I am and again I ask the Minister to answer a specific question that seems more important to me at this time when we are talking about her responsibility: How many times has she, Mr. Haradinaj, been a tyrant since she was no longer in all other countries, how many times has he come to Slovenia or traveled through Slovenia? And: Was it not evident from the passport he was traveling with that from the time that this tyrant was supposed to be — and we all know that she was — away from her, that she was traveling uninterrupted all the time? Why is this important? We've talked a lot about political damage before. Let me also recall the statement made by the President of Serbia, Prime Minister of Serbia, Vukic, who, at the time of the incident in Slovenia, said that the matter was incredibly strange, since it was three days before the important agreements in Brussels, which took place with the High Representative for Foreign Affairs of the European Union, were in the process of preparing or negotiating an agreement between the State of Serbia and Kosovo. See, this is very important, very important, too, to throw away all doubts and different speculations. So, Minister, please answer a very important and perhaps a key question.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u145	Procedurally, Mrs. Eva Irgle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u146	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I would ask you to ensure peace in the hall and those with debate rings, we see that there are more of them to carry out these debates outside if they are not able to listen to the key arguments of interpretation. Yesterday we received a number of reminders from members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, but today we have been listening to debate rings and asking that you really ensure peace in the Chamber. Because believe that a proposaler who has been sitting here all day explaining key interpretation arguments needs peace. Those who cannot do their work properly should do so outside and talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u147	Peace in the hall was also in the previous leadership also on a very delicate side, and also on your side there was no peace, I have warned many times that peace must be ensured. Now they were bothering me, too, but I left them for a few more minutes. Mr. Jože Tanko [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Proposer or procedural? [[…]] Procedural Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u148	Madam President, I do not know how the communication between the President of the National Assembly and you, as Vice-President, is going on, what kind of work do you agree to be balanced, but yesterday we received a reminder from members of the Slovenian Democratic Party for every noise in this Chamber. Today, there is literally a public debate here. You are unable to even warn that peace should be in the hall, but you are talking about how similar it was yesterday.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u149	We're not talking about yesterday.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u150	You said a few days ago. Whatever. Yeah, that's what it sounded like. I ask that we treat the same vats at all times and that it is actually difficult to work in the National Assembly if there are literally public debates. You know, there's something else, if you two are talking quietly, normally, that a lot of opinions have to be exchanged, but that we literally have almost speaking circles here, which is a little too much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko, your word. Get Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u152	Thank you so much for saying that. First, I would expect the Minister to be able to respond to two simple questions after five or more interventions and to one question in the introduction to the position of the Group after 7 hours. Gorenak asked how it is possible to delete this tyrant in all registers and centrals, only in our records. A question was also raised here, which is probably crucial to understanding this problem. How many times before he was detained before being taken away from the passport of Ramushu Haradinaj, traveled through Slovenia or returned through Slovenia to Pristina on these international trips? If the Minister of the Interior has not been able to answer such a simple question since nine o'clock in the morning, then it may be difficult to talk about the functioning of the State services, government services, in order for those who control migration flows and travel through airports and so on to work. If Mr Haradinaj has traveled through Slovenia ten times and his passport was taken from him for the eleventh time, then that is probably the question to be answered and the reasons why this happened only for the eleventh time. The Minister of the Interior deals a lot with that phone, twitter and computer and so on. But we don't get the answer to those questions. We don't get it. This is, as far as the debate in this interpretation is concerned, in fact, crucial. I am not interested in the migrant crisis, I am not interested in this moment either in refugees or in the work of the police at the borders, but we are talking about the problem, we are talking about the action that took place in June this year when one of the citizens of a foreign country was taken away from the passport and was detained for a few days. He was also limited in movement in Slovenia. This interpretation is a key issue. If the members of the coalition, all those who are defending the Minister, are trying to justify this with some of the other actions that have taken place later, I must remind you that what is under discussion today has absolutely nothing to do with it. There's absolutely no connection. The action that has occurred cannot be concealed with other acts of any kind because we are not discussing it. To all those who are slightly younger or less skilled Members, I would only warn you that interpretation is a constitutional category. Article 118 of the Constitution is the one that allows for interpretation of work or government or individual minister. And that's what we're talking about. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of this matter are somewhat more precise and the President of the National Assembly could set a shorter time limit than 30 days for responding to interpretation. It is the President's discretion to determine between 15 and 30 days. He's made up his mind for a long time. Longest term. But in its own way, it's strange that we didn't get this answer relatively quickly, but on the last day of the virtually expired deadline. You're all talking here, including the minister and the president of the government, that this is, I don't know, such a marginal question that can be resolved with your left hand. Then why does the Prime Minister need 30 days to prepare an answer to this interpolation? Why does he need 30 days? If it's so simple, so simple, such a marginal question! And why did the President set a maximum time limit, the President of the National Assembly? This tells us all about how and what question it really was; because it was an international scandal, you wanted to put it as far as possible into the future. That's the key to it. And it was actually an international scandal. I must say that in the morning, I was very surprised by the Prime Minister, Mr Miro Cerar, who said that all the incriminating statements of the motioner in the interpretation were completely without a real basis or unrealistic. You may recall that I have called on the President of the National Assembly to allow the President of the Government, within the time available to the Government, to respond to which of our interpretation claims are unrealistic. The president of the National Assembly didn't have this robbery, the president of the government got a little rusty and then left the hall in a hurry. Look, the President of the government, when he said that, showed that he didn't read the interpretation at all. Probably no response to interpolation either. He didn't even read it. But this speech that he had here in the National Assembly, who wrote these baseless statements, told him in that way. In the morning, I asked several times, twice, the President of the National Assembly and the President of the Government, which statements from this interpretation are unrealistic. Does he not claim that Haradinaj was deprived of his passport, that he was detained, and that he had a limited movement? The Minister can also now answer in place of the President of the Government. This claim from interpolation: is it true or not true? I think that this statement by the President of the Government of some history cannot be erased because it does not correspond to any real facts. The second thing I have addressed to the President of the National Assembly and the President of the Government is this: Is there any indication from the interpretation that there has been an extraordinary meeting of the Kosovo Assembly and that a resolution on Haradinaj has been adopted there, and so unanimously? Can you answer that? Can the Prime Minister answer that? Can the Minister answer that? Was this act committed or not committed? It was done. I think that Mr Haradinaj is the opposition Member, if I am not mistaken, given that the Assembly has adopted this unanimously, without a vote against and with the quorum needed to do so by the majority of all Members, then means that the Kosovo Assembly has been fully united in its definition of the problem that has taken place in Slovenia. The political body of the Democratic Assembly of Kosovo has identified itself as a problem. How, for example, would the National Assembly respond if we were to hold John Jansho elsewhere? Would you be able to do so – this Parliament will decide at this meeting, as decided by the Kosovo Assembly, and protect the integrity of the innocent Member and so on? They wouldn't be. Because what you did in this term in the National Assembly, everything went in the opposite direction from what is constitutionally consistent and constitutionally valid. All the actions now regarding such things have been different with you. I ask and I ask the President of the Government whether he points out from our interpretation that there has been a call to block the purchase of Slovenian goods. Can the Minister answer – has it come or not? It's here. And that is an undeniable and undeniable fact. Does the State have any indication which was subsequently further given when the applicant's request was presented that the Slovenian representatives of Kforj Kosovo had been temporarily withdrawn? The Prime Minister of the Government, the Minister of Defence, should know for sure whether this action has taken place. Both of you are here, the Minister of Defense is here now, and you could have taken three minutes to explain whether this statement from the interpretation holds or does not hold. What I have now listed and everything else is recorded in the interpretation and all these are indisputable facts that say that it was a political problem, that it was an international scandal, that it had an impact on economic relations with Kosovo, and that it had an impact on the Slovenian Army, which was engaged in Kosovo within the framework of international forces. I also asked the President of the Government whether the statement from the interpretation was made that she had called on a tyrant from Serbia and Montenegro, a country that no longer exists. The Austro-Hungarians are gone, too, aren't they? The president failed, he couldn't answer, he couldn't answer, but it's an irrefutable fact. At the time when the tyranny was issued, it was issued by the state of Serbia and Montenegro, which is no longer there after 2006, we received two countries; one is Serbia, the other is Montenegro. That it was a problem not only of Slovenia but also of Serbia, the statement by the Prime Minister of Serbia, Mr Vukic, who actually said that what happened to Ramus Haradinaj in Slovenia was also a problem for Serbia. So, it has some international implications, it has some international influence, it's got the relations of at least three countries that have been hit by this act and it's caused by this act. And now here you're talking to government representatives and coalition parties about it as if it were nothing. Since you have put this into this given future that you have somehow moved the answer to the interpretation for four months, you can look at it with different eyes and try to cover it up with other problems that have actually occurred also because of the minister's awkwardness, even because of the minister's awkwardness. But the problem we are talking about has actually arisen, international problems have arisen, other consequences have arisen for Slovenia, including economic and so on, and this must be decided today in the National Assembly. I must say that I find it problematic and symptomatic that after 2012, when Ramush Haradinaj was released from the Hague Court of Justice, he obviously had no problems travelling. Not by travelling to Switzerland, not to Germany, not to foreign countries, not to international countries, probably to other countries, but it only happened somewhere in Brunika. Clearly, the problem is that some of the problems that have arisen in ruling politics are not recognized. So you marginalize them, you push them to the curbs and you raise problems that are not there; you probably shouldn't even make decisions, and you put them on the rails and you got a slap on the back of the Constitutional Court. That's how you put these things in our house. In view of the fact that the President of the Government has repeatedly spoken about the fact that in his work he will take particular account of the responsibility of his fellow workers, that he will require responsibility for acts that require ethics and respect for the rule of law, the question is raised here why you do not respect neither ethics nor the rule of law nor protect the minister who is objectively responsible for the action. This moment is irrefutable. Apparently, there is a bigger problem with the Minister for Government and Coalition, and there is a greater number of occupations there as regards the presence of ministers and other senior government officials. That's typical. When we discuss the system laws to be covered by individual ministers, a few ministers rarely attend a meeting of the National Assembly. Sends secretaries, directors of the Directorates or any other lower officials. Now that we are discussing interpolation, I see that such or other occupations, but they are never less than three in the Chamber, as far as ministers are concerned, a quarter of the government is always present. Some Members spoke about a number of things, one of the newer Members, a recent date that came later to the National Assembly and had, until he was a Member, a great expert and an acquaintance of the National Assembly, a discussion to read about 20 tweets. About a month before he was running, he was talking about "the MPs in the National Assembly are ordinary idiots who give a fuck about ordinary people." It's a quote from the Zamurayans. Now I'm also asking some intellectual from the coalition whether what some Members are doing is to come here and read a few tweets from different media and they're combining it into some debate, that intellectual work of a Member, which is connected with someone reading the interpretation, that someone has prepared some appropriate response to the interpretation, or whether it's that they're ordinary idiots. He just put a dot on and an idiot. Thank God he's not in our group. Thank God he's accidentally being placed in the largest parliamentary group. And given that someone with such a reputation comes to the National Assembly and says things that do not have any legal, or constitutional, or business basis, then we see that we will have many more problems in the National Assembly when we consider various subjects; both substantive and other interpretations. That's not excluded. But, as it is said, Madam Minister, I think that after all this time, about 8 and a half hours, Members should have at least the answers to those two, three, simple questions. Did this arrest of Mr Haradinaj happen after the 15th trip through Slovenia, or did it happen at the first crossing of the border into Slovenia? This question has been on the table for several hours now. The minister doesn't answer, some tweet, some key, no one helps her there to answer that question, but it's important. For if this is the 15th time, then I wonder what the conduct of all these same assumptions of the same tyranny that was published at Interpol was until then. Therefore, responsibility is in both cases whether it has not been done as it should in those previous cases, in this particular case when this happened, but also in breach of the provisions of both the domestic and the convention. Mr President of the National Assembly has merely tried to explain this artificially how this should be done with these matters. But if someone has a diplomatic passport, they have it because they have some status. If the police take my driver's license and I have to explain to her in particular that I have a driver's license and they hold it in their hands, then something is wrong. I have a driver's license status, just like one with a diplomatic passport, a diplomat with a diplomatic passport. It's probably almost self-involved. Such behaviors are, in their own way, a serious problem. I must say that I myself will support this interpellation, because these matters need to be clarified, they must be decided, and no matter how the coalition acts, this will be a guide for further action and further work both in our Member Group and in the coalition. Now a few more words to those who would like to do something else are more important than the debate on interpolation. You've put yourself out there a few times before and suggested that you do something like this. I think you've had quite a few coalition meetings at the representative castle of Brdo, many meetings. Relatively big. More than in other times. Either there or at the government or elsewhere, they could entrust their ministers to prepare development measures for you. More than a year has passed and so far there is no development measure on the table in any area! If the government can't, you have the potential of almost 60 Members of the National Assembly. We have proposed some 30 laws, 35 acts – you have not taken the time to study them, but you have read every time the government's opinion, which says that the matter is premature, that it is not comprehensive enough to study matters yet. You've been studying for a year, you've been reading Zamurien for a year, and that's how you're discussing it, because that's what you're doing, and then you can ask yourself about this statement by your colleague Radič and we're waiting. We're waiting. We will come on Sunday, if necessary, on a state holiday, if we have to decide on development issues! Don't worry. There's also something we're going to propose along with the law you're going to propose. Just don't read us this so we can do another. For the other thing, you're all in charge, and you haven't done anything yet. Nothing at all. The coalition MPs have not passed any laws yet. None yet. Before pointing your eyes at others, first sweep ahead of your threshold. As for the answers to the interpolation, we could also make sure that the Minister asked her to ask her if she would be asked to answer three simple questions, but obviously this is not a priority for you, it is necessary to push her head into the sand, make an idiot and press the "against" button – and the train will go on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u153	The word is from Dr. Simon Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Madam President. I will only discuss facts, facts that are the product of chronology, the fruit of today's debate and the outcome of the legal categories. However, all refer first to what institutions we have in the National Assembly or in Parliament, in order to monitor and call for responsibility the executive part of the political authority, the specific government or the individual minister, all in the current case of this interpolation. With one goal: to try, in particular, my own citizens and citizens, perhaps even ministers, if anything, to come up with the answer to the next question. Is this today's event the result of a very consistent educational implementation of the opposition institute, despite the fact that, as we have already communicated on the grounds in which the coalition work in Parliament and the Minister herself, through both professional and general, objective salaries is highly questionable or even, can we say, a categorical objection? So, is this debate today the result of this, or is it one very thoughtful and well-planned scenario of Members who signed this interpolation and created for us today in Parliament? Well, let's get to the legal stuff first. In the National Assembly, there are legal bases or institutes available to us by Members to call on our ministers to take responsibility, to report on their work or to defend what they have done, three types; this most powerful today, this is an interpretation, defined by the Constitution itself. The other two, and this is the call of ministers to our meetings within the framework of the working bodies and the question of Members of Parliament, as defined in the Rules of Procedure. What can we say about interpolation itself because it is the product of today’s debate or the scenario itself today? So, interpellation, the most powerful mechanism — it is necessary to mention or recall a few facts that have also been manipulated today. Under Rules 250, 251, 252 and 253 of the Rules, the President of the Government or the President of the National Assembly may interpellate, if submitted by 10 Members, to the President of the Government or to the Minister to which he refers and to all Members, while at the same time setting a time limit for an answer which shall not be less than 15 days and not more than 30 days. So, the secretary here took her 30 days. What's the problem? I don't know. Apparently in the fact that she was following legal business regulations. And paragraph 251. The President of the National Assembly shall send the reply of the Government or the Minister to the intervention immediately to all Members and the National Assembly shall discuss and decide on the interpretation at the latest at the first next meeting following receipt of the reply from the Government or the Minister. So, this is today or as part of this regular session. Here's the answer to this, to some concerns, if the minister was stalling, looking for arguments for her explanations and so on. She was only consistently following what the legal order allowed her to do. Then the next statistical information before I go any further to a specific case. 35 interpolations so far — 36? According to my information 35 – of which 10 is only in the field or in the department of the Ministry of the Interior. This information is self-explanatory, and it is not surprising, in fact, that the Ministry of the Interior is the central constitutional ministry in the political system, democratic, parliamentary as well. Here the explanation, and for this reason also rightly, is that so much more attention is paid to the functioning of the Ministry of the Interior or to the Minister. Now let's see what happened chronologically in this particular case, or yes, the case of today's interpolation. What did the chronology look like? First: the very complication of our opposition colleagues, which took place 17. 6. When Slovenian police officers seized Mr Haradinaj on the basis of the 2004 Serbian tyranny. In addition to the fact that she was then taken away from Mr Haradinaj on this day and that a hearing took place very quickly at the District Court in Kranj, those who very well remember all this event will also remember that the event was extremely comprehensive media coverage, which means that they have obviously already informed the media very well from the airport of Brnik, what was happening there, and then also from the District Court in Kranj. All right, all right. This is one of the key missions, or the purpose of democracy, that things are public and that they are transparent. But it's strange, because a lot of similar cases happen, and it happens without cameras and without such media attention. Then it's the next thing. Two days later, 19. 6. One of the signatories from the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group asks a written question and says that, in accordance with Articles 240 and 248 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the right question is referred in writing to the Minister of Home Affairs and to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the former Kosovo Prime Minister Ramush Haradinaj. So two days after this event, the question has already been sent. Very exemplary. It's a very good textbook case. Both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister of the Interior shall send an answer. In the meantime, no request has been made for a reference to any meeting of the parent working body, which is also open to opposition Members, in order to address this subject in the context of this event. Why doesn't that happen? Probably because Members of Parliament, the promoters of the interpolation did not wait, they did not waste time and they are 24. 6. already filed an interpolation. Let me get back to the written question. The Minister of the Interior has answered this written question in writing, but I may now have time to read to you what she has answered. Because she answered exactly the same things she was talking about today, which the coalition MPs were talking about today, about these facts, and certainly not the facts that opposition colleagues were talking about — some. Some other opposition colleagues spoke about the content that today, with the content of the interpretation, has no connection, not to mention the spices that flew to the Minister's personal disqualification in today's interpolation and point to the level of bonton and culture not only of individuals who decided to discuss it, but also of the entire national assembly. Thus, the answer to a written question from one of the SDS Members of the SDS Group, including the Minister for Foreign Affairs, answered him – but also very important information, the Member did not require any addition to the reply given, which one would expect to be satisfied with, and logically, the answer. In this question, the Minister explains exactly how the entire course of events — that of the case today — took place, what was going on, what was going on, what was going on, what was going on, and what was going on. He says he's at 17. 6. Jože Pučnik, Ljubljana arrived Mr Ramush Haradinaj to find that, in the framework of the regular border inspection at the exit from the Schengen area, the police found that Interpol databases recorded a valid international search against a person, a red notice, against the said order, written by Interpol National Central Bureau of Belgrade Serbia. As in all other cases where an internationally wanted person is present in the police procedure, the police contacted the caller immediately via the international police cooperation sector, which confirmed the validity of the call. The person was brought, together with the documentation available, to the investigating judge of the District Court in Kranj, who took it into consideration for further proceedings. With this, the police carried out their task in this case. In cases where a person is found to be subject to international investigation under Interpol, the police must immediately bring such a person to the competent investigating judge who takes over the proceedings. The call for international search for a person shall be made on the basis of an order from the judicial authority of the State of tender, in this case Serbia, and only the judicial authority of the Republic of Slovenia may decide on the validity of the search in Slovenia. Interpol’s national central bureaus in the Member States shall, on the basis of orders from national courts, list the international search for persons and issue the so-called Interpol Red Notice. The Red Notice shall inform, on behalf of the State by which Interpol informs the Member State of the fact that a particular person has been sought on the basis of a tyranny. In short, a very detailed explanation of how the whole procedure is carried out and how this procedure has also been carried out in this particular case. In short, objective professionally supported information, a response to the citation or Member concerned, no response to any controversy in this regard. Today, it seems that this controversy is still hanging in the air. I wonder if the ministers actually seem to have acted by the rules or that the police have acted by the rules and that they have not interfered with the work of the police. We didn't actually get that answer through the debate. As we reflect on the fact that the Institute of Opposition, or even the institutes that we have at our disposal to call on the political summit of the executive branch, must not be their own purpose, I am thinking how constructively we can approach ourselves. The constructive approach of, of course, the coalition parliamentary groups is that, somehow additionally, with additional arguments, we stand on the side of the Minister. What, though, could be the constructive aspect of the opposition Members, particularly the citing ones? Please tell me in what way it would be right and the minister you are interpreting should then act in this particular case. We haven't heard anything about it. All we've heard is some interpretation of data and reality that has confused us. In fact, I no longer know what realm of reality I live in, whether I live in the realm of reality, as evidenced by the procedures that the data evidenced by the reports that have actually occurred, or in the sphere, in the world of some of the interpretations that you are talking about. I certainly accept it very legitimately, but, uh, convince me. But you didn't do me; you didn't do me with the data that you want to actually deny what was done in this process or in a specific event, or by telling me what it should be, and how it should then be carried out or carried out by your solutions or by [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u155	A replica or a procedural one? Replica, please, Mr. Shircel.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Of course, I am replicating because I was that Member and I am the Member who asked this question. I think it's perfectly legitimate, I even think – when you said today that two days after this event – that one day too late. In fact, the question that we are asking is, if we are speaking of course, what kind of institution is the question that is being sent, it is that you ask about a particular event, no matter what you do then. I just got the answer, and just like you say, that's how I got the answer, but completely, like you said, it's a very good textbook case. Okay, I don't really feel like I'm in school today, but anyway, even by the professors, I mean, I don't have any problems. In short, the textbook case was either the same or different, and for that event, given that question, I was fully satisfied with the reply and there was no additional request. There's absolutely nothing wrong here, I hope you don't think anything's wrong, at least I don't feel like it is. And I'll be asking questions from the Members. Interpellation is something else; however, interpellation is, of course, an institution held by the opposition in this case if it finds that the Minister or Government acted contrary to or not in accordance with certain legal acts. And this interpolation also talks about it, talks. Here we also have reasons why we have given the interpretation where the legal bases are: irregularities in the implementation of Article 2 of the Treaty between the Republic of Slovenia and between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro on extradition, suspension of the obligation to act, the Law on State border control, compliance with the provisions of Article 29 and 42 of the United Nations Convention but this is a completely different institution as a matter of question. [[…]] The question of e-mail is just to ask, but here is that something has been done and then a definition of why it really is. And it's all legitimate. I don't feel completely anything wrong because it's a legitimate opposition institution to actually do it. What is the scenario, what is the direction, look, don't get too busy with this, give yourself the content. As those scenarios, whatever they are, the opposition is always about the same: to look at the coalition and the ministers and the government under their fingertips to point out events that are not in conformity with the laws or that are not in conformity with morals or ethics or whatever.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u157	Mr. Shircel, your time is up. Mr. Shircel, your time has run out for the replica. Please, Mr. Shircel. Thank you. Ms. Anja Bah Žibert, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Madam President. I am, in fact, very pleased with the teaching minutes of the head of the SMC Group, who said exactly what the business process is like with regard to investment and interpretation or how it comes on the agenda. In particular, I thank you for denying the statements made by your Prime Minister, who in the morning stated that the interpretation had come on the agenda at an entirely wrong time. Good morning! You know, really, maybe she came for some at the wrong time. Otherwise, you have to take this into account in the parliamentary group, because some of you said that at the wrong time, colleague Zajc said it was the right time, so you should take this into account at home first. But what's most important about this, and I stress that all the time, the interpolation was filed in June. If the matter were as simple and as bland as some of you wanted to present it today, then the Minister would not take the maximum time. For example, if I took advantage of at least half as much time as, for example, colleague Gorenak for his interpretation, we would consider it at the July session. And if you had acted responsibly, then today you would have another minister who would probably have made any other reports about the situation that is taking place in Slovenia. And one more thing. You wanted to speculate that somehow this timing was chosen by us and that somehow we wanted to bring this into a given situation today. Mrs. Kustec Lipicer, what if we turn this around a little bit? What if you speculated today about this issue, which you know is exactly the problem, because in all 15 minutes as a leader of the parliamentary group, you were unable to make any argument that would justify the acts and deny what was recorded in the interpretation? And I'm thinking maybe the speculation was on your side. You know why? So we don't talk about other problems. Whether the ministry is doing well during the refugee crisis or whether the ministry is doing well in relation to the police and so on. Or perhaps it's your speculation, Your Honor! But the fact is that I have not asked the Minister how many times today: how many times has Mr. Haradinaj crossed the Slovenian border, how many times has he returned from Slovenia and then who has not done his job? If they didn't do their job then did those officers who were working at the border at the time, were sanctions then imposed or how was this going? A little bit like that, one like that, one like that, just like the day. Are we a serious country or are we not a serious country? And, honourable Member, once we have these key answers, you will be able to at least partially challenge this interpretation. There's nothing you can do about the situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u159	It's a replica. You don't have any more time, I'm sorry. Not for the replica, no, because it's at the same time. The secretary has the floor. Procedurally, please, Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Now I will show my teachers in the National Assembly that I have learned some of them. I ask the President to remind the proposer of what today is the content of the debate under this interpolation. Not the work of the minister, not the vision, not the confrontation, the stabbing of the refugee issue within her powers, but the interpretation associated with this event at the end of June in Brnik. At the same time, I would say one more thing more about our citizens and citizens who have decided to follow this meeting today, that on the website of the National Assembly, on our luck, we have precise magnetograms of what we said, and from which we can be sure of what we talked about, because colleagues from the SDS often allow us to be taken out of context in order to fit into their image of reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u161	What was your procedural proposal? He wasn't there. [[advertising from the hall]] Please, I'm in charge of the session, not you. May I say to the end, please? So it was an abuse of the procedural proposal, as it has been a few times today. We're moving on to the session. Ms. Anja Bah Žibert, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u162	Look, I believe that this meeting is hard, it's been going on for a very long time, but I would expect Members to report to the debate to at least check out what someone has said. If you've listened to my opening act, then you've heard exactly what I've been saying about the Haradinaj case. When I reminded you that we still have no concrete answers, I was talking about the Haradinaj case. But I responded to your speculations that actually had nothing to do with this interpretation. Are we talking today about the procedure of interpolation, as we have witnessed for 15 minutes of your debate? No, no, no. We're talking about the content of the interpolation. So let's think about who's breaking the rules here.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u163	The Minister of Magic has the floor. Vesna Györkös Žnidar. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u164	Thank you for your word. Well, I'm very glad that we're somehow coming to the conclusion plane, given that we've been spinning around all day, and that we're actually at the point that was in June or, if I'm more mild, at the point where we started this morning. Today, much has been said about direct access to Interpol databases, it has been said about the powers of the police, about their procedures, about my supervisory and guidance powers, it has been answered explicitly to the question why Ramush Haradinaj was not received in Austria or Germany and also in Greece, where he also received a tourist visa or when travelling to other countries. The fundamental reason why this question should be asked again is not that I would not answer this question satisfactorily, and there is another reason. In the face of Mr Tank at the time, it was not in the Chamber when I answered that question, so I suggest that your colleagues brief you, but I will answer what you consider to be the case, because I am here to answer your questions. As far as the question is concerned, how many times has an individual crossed the border and where it was intended, not only is it appropriate to protect the rights of an individual, but I must tell you that, with regard to the number of crossings across the border, the police do not record the entry and exit of third-country nationals when crossing the external border simply because there is no legal basis for this. There is, however, a debate at the level of the European Union, you probably do not know, and we will be discussing ministers in a short package of smart borders, within which there will also be a regulation on the system of entry and exit. I also realize that it is still unclear what actually happened to Ramus Haradinaj when he was in police custody. We started today's debate that he was in custody. Then I explained that it wasn't a detention, now we're talking about detention. In fact, he was only deprived of his freedom. Under Article 552 of the Criminal Procedure Act, the police cannot detain a person in this case; they can only bring him to an investigative judge who then imposes appropriate restrictive measures against that person. As we know, the court seized Haradinaj's passport, not taken from him by the police, as you claim all day. And I've already explained in my reply that the police haven't taken the passport, and the court has taken it away. I did not fully understand that statement concerning Prosecutor Fischer, given that both the lawyer and the prosecutor are opposed to each other and that they cannot really refer to the same argument as to liability. [[Incomprehensible]] But I'm going to say that I already explained a segment of your argument yesterday when you're talking about fear. You're the one who's spreading fear. I have already explained to Mr Gorenak yesterday that, however, it is very easy to have a task here when it links fear with my department or with the internal affairs department, because there is virtually no area at the Ministry of the Interior that it would not be possible to bring into discussion through existential fear, through fear, through emergency situations, through the so-called day X, if I quote Mr Gorenak in yesterday's first part of today's interpolation, because I think today is the second part of the interpolation. Here, too, I would give Mr Gorenak a good warning or advise him that when he uses the word minister in the same sentence and conceals investigative measures, be a little bit more or have a little more sensitivity because it is very frightening. There is no doubt that the Minister, in particular I, as Minister of the Interior, must enjoy the confidence of Parliament, that is, the entity that actually gives me this political function. This trust, at least that is what I think, is primarily linked directly to the obligations arising from my or assigned mandate. And the other way around. The loss of confidence cannot in any way be based on a breach of an obligation arising from a ministerial mandate. Directing and controlling the work of the police and covering my duty not to interfere with the operational work of the police are certainly my duties as Minister of the Interior. This is clearly defined in the Law on the Organisation and Work of the Police, so here I do not think there is any deep discourse necessary, but today it has been explained in detail. Today, we are all here on behalf of the people, not to love each other or to understand each other, and I think that the expectation of voters is undoubtedly that we have a police which is professional, independent, apolitical and which in the first place actually applies the rule of law – that is to say, under the prescribed rules, in the predetermined rules without exception, because it will be a dead letter on paper. And if this is not the expectation of the Slovenian Democratic Party, then we do have a devil's problem. As already stated by the leader of the parliamentary group, and I fully agree with her, which was also very well argued by this segment, namely, in the Haradinaj case, I am also surprised that at least a meeting of the competent parent committee has not been convened, given that you say that this is such a serious problem that it is already bordering on a scandal which, by the nature of the matter and by some natural hierarchy, would also be invited by the Director-General of Police, who is essentially directly responsible for the work of the police and also has the possibility of having a direct impact on the conduct of his subordinates. He would also explain how and what, not that he was forced to comment on the whole thing in the media, which is some sort of umbrella that has been hovering over us for how long, that he too would not have been forced in the media to comment on the whole matter and, before even the Slovenian public, to commend a police officer who did what he did when he carried out the proceedings at the border when the person who was under the current international tyrannical search led to an investigative judge. I have already pointed out that the police have not seized the passport, that he was not in custody and that it is not a matter of detention, that this is Article 525 of the Criminal Procedure Act. But I'll say something else. Today I didn't even hear which law and which article the police were supposed to break. After this long-term debate, we still have not defined the essential element of which law and which member the Slovenian police violated in the case of Ramush Haradinaj. In fact, the type of responsibility, Mrs Irgle, is not at all essential, subjective, objective, basic at this point is whether people can still believe that the rule of law is working. I think the police work by law, by the principle of equality. And as long as I'm acting as Minister of the Interior, who I don't hold back from having any misperceptions, there will be no political abuse of the police. And I've already proved this by my previous actions, and I'm going to prove it in the future. Of course, as Minister of the Interior, I am aware that, in addition to political responsibility, I also have legal responsibility for my work, which, as a lawyer, is clear to me in view of my education. The legal aspect of political responsibility is, of course, governed by the Constitution, laws and other regulations. Of course, I also agree that I am responsible for the functioning of my ministry, i.e. the policy of the Ministry and its implementation in individual cases and the responsibility for the work of the people I am subordinate to, but within the remit of the Ministry. And that's the outer limit that wasn't highlighted today. In order to exercise the powers of other ministries or other departments of the whole government, or even for systemic solutions from the past, the Minister cannot be held responsible, at least not in the context of today's application or almost extorting my individual responsibility. Here I see one breakthrough in the argument, which I think is legally and politically very important. The perceptions that measure my direct responsibility are incomprehensible, flawed or, in fact, totally unfounded and need to be searched for in these interpolative accounts. But I also have to say that I detect a very interesting subtonia. This story revolves for two days around one core, which is now somehow decomposed and is no longer so observable, that we explain the difference between managing the core and essentially communicating with the public about the working group's operational data. That's how we started. That's how we started yesterday. I also understand that Members are very concerned about refugee issues on the one hand, on the other hand you are not present at the meeting, you are not discussing, you are not asking me anything, it was yesterday, but at the same time you are criticising my conduct, but in the context of my public appearance. I don't understand. That's already, in my opinion, higher mathematics. And that's actually [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Excuse me? You know, the resort isn't driven by the principle of pirar, and the state isn't. But we cleaned that up yesterday. The whole debate on what was still somehow indicated today what should be done in the future, and this segment has also emerged. Notwithstanding the fact that systemic changes are not within the Ministry of the Interior domain, they are, in fact, completely irrelevant. The system has been that way for years. In fact, it is an example of good practice, as we have explained with an argument, which is also represented by Interpol. This was the case at the time of the SDS rule. That is why, last of all, this interpolation is some kind of extortion of individual responsibility, as has been highlighted here today by the coalition Members with a view to deliberately weakening the functional power of the government, at a time when, in fact, the whole of Europe is actually facing geostrategic changes in the world. I don't think it's state-of-the-art. In fact, it's interesting to think that since the beginning of the term, they've been looking back at me as my predecessors. So I'm not putting unacceptable political pressure on the detection and investigation body, i.e. the police. I ask the police, in any event, to work legally, professionally and independently and in accordance with my mandatory instructions and guidelines, the purpose of which is to achieve such a way of working. This, last but not least, honourable Members, is one of the appearances of the rule of law, which is also one of the commitments of the government of Dr. Mir Cerar. The Prime Minister asks all ministers to follow this imperative, which is even more pronounced in the internal affairs sector that I am in charge of. Since, last of all, the rule of law starts with the police and you can also end up with the police if the police are not provided with smooth operational and apolitical action. With regard to subjective responsibility, I have explained that, in fact, I do not think that it is possible for the Minister of State to report any misdemeanours. But it is true that I also respond objectively. This has somehow been highlighted today that this aspect has not been adequately addressed and, of course, it is entirely justified to talk about objective responsibility, and I welcome this in any case, because, however, one great power is concentrated in the executive branch of the Authority and, last but not least, it must be stressed that there are very complex relations and one organizational diversification at one ministry, which requires that a mechanism of hierarchical responsibility is also present. Of course, the Minister is also exposed to acts that are not directly affected, but if I can refer here to an article published by Dr Cerar back in 1998, which is also often used in these debates on the subject of interpretations – including this responsibility has its own external framework, it has its limits, which Dr Cerar has already established in 1998 "the political and legal field of the Ministry and the Minister". This external border has not been defined today and I think this is very important from the point of view of this particular matter that we are discussing today. Even if we took the widest possible interpretation of my political responsibility as Minister of the Interior, for the system of international tyrants, which was the same at the time of my predecessors' ministry, I cannot be held accountable because I do not have the authority to select international tyrants and not to decide who the police should bring to the investigating judge and who not. And I don't have the authority to unilaterally change the system for which Interpol praises us. But I'm going to argue this in the opposite direction. If we found that the Slovenian police, who was under the current international search for Interpol – but we are not talking about Ramus Haradinaj here, I am speaking systematically – when this fact was discovered to have allowed him into the Schengen area in cold blood, but we would really have a problem, and in fact, the whole of Europe would be looking at us in case of the worst scenario that the honourable Member has somehow pointed to in its implementation. This actually surprises me, given that it is the Slovenian Democratic Party that is the first to highlight the issue of the permissibility of Schengen borders, foreign terrorist fighters and similar phenomena, which I welcome very much, because I believe that this aspect is also important in the context of the entire debate currently taking place at the level of the European Union. Therefore, I am surprised or perhaps you have changed the doctrine that it is necessary to exercise control over persons entering and leaving the EU border, or that all of us will just walk past Interpol's tourist visas as much as we want. A very interesting concept of national security.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u165	If I understand correctly, there are two replicas. First of all, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u166	Thank you. Very quickly, because I'm gonna stick to time. I don't know why you're afraid of covert investigative measures. Yeah, that's what's in use. I hope you're monitoring them. You have to control them, that's the problem. They're not afraid of me. Once again, my colleagues do not spread any fear, Madam Minister. However, we remind you of the situation as to what will happen on day x if you do not act today. Today the Hungarians put us on the border with us on a wire fence. Today. Look, strangers are working, and we're working. But you two are sitting here, because you have to do it today, and we haven't heard anything about it yet. No, no, the secretary has to, and this other minister isn't saying we're clear. Maybe making plans would be more useful. I'm afraid, Minister, you're taking no part in the police from a different angle than the law says. Involvement in the work of the police does not mean monitoring the work of the police. You must oversee the work of the police, you must give guidance. Five minutes after the first demonstration took place in Maribor, I stress, the first demonstration, the director had guidance on how to work and instructions under Article 12 on how to inform me. Now, for the record, I'm asking you for the fourth time when you were informed under Article 12. I didn't get an answer. Now, I'm going to write on the website, and I'm going to ask you publicly, and answer me, answer the media when you were informed, not me. If you don't want to just answer me. So the obvious, you said the officer was commended by the director. I have no comment that the director praised the policeman, the one who appeared to him on the screen to be arrested. There's another problem. The problem is those who didn't make sure the police didn't sign up for arrest. Overtaken. They're the problem, not the police. So we're clear. Now you're saying the eyeglass is floating in the air. Nothing's floating to me. I'm on two legs, I'm not floating. I have a feeling that sometimes you're a little gliding in the air. You still haven't answered my basic question after 10 hours of discussion. You're all saying what a legitimate job it was. Yeah, for God's sake, tell me once, why our police officer got the information on the screen that a person needs to be picked up, and why he didn't get it from an English, German, and French, and I don't know which other police officer. Look, after two and a half hours of discussion, there is no answer after so many hours, we don't have it. We don't have it. I offer it after the vote. I invite you to stop by my place. And to conclude. Look, interpolation is an attempt to take power over legitimate constitutional means, you said. I think you'll apologize now. So you didn't. I will also set you here a possibility and a mirror on my website, and answer if you answer. Thank you very much. I'm over here.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u167	Second replica. The second replica has a mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u168	Yes, thank you very much, Mr President. The replica is because the distinguished minister said she didn't hear any laws today, no legal standards that she was supposed to actually violate. I'm not gonna, as colleague Simona Kustec Lipicer said, say there's a script in the back, that now the minister has a script in the back. I don't think he has it. But I mentioned two international treaties just before, ten minutes ago, which are also written in our written article on interpolation. The International Treaties under Article 8 of the Constitution, in accordance with the generally applicable principles of international law and international treaties, oblige Slovenia. This is Article 8 of the Constitution. This is said to be in line with the generally applicable principles of international law and with international treaties that bind Slovenia and beyond. Ratified and published international treaties shall apply directly. I think, Madam Minister, I believe that it is a long day and that you may be hearing something, but that is why I refer once again to the article of the Constitution and once again to Article 2 of the Treaty between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Serbia on extradition. We are also talking about the article, and Montenegro, which unlawfully deprived Mr Haradinaj of his liberty. I am talking about the State Border Control Act, which takes into account the provisions of Articles 29 and 42 of the United Nations Convention on Special Missions. All of this has been adopted in accordance with Article 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. And these are the legal acts that this interpolation actually manifests to you. I repeated it again because it's written, and it's with stronger letters in this interpretation. It is just so explanatory, because I do not want anyone to get the feeling that what is in mind right now — it is not in my head — and that we are not talking here about violating certain legal acts that are in force under the Constitution in Slovenia. But I'm not going to that point right now whether you agree or not. That's another question now. I'm just talking about what this interpolation actually tells you. Thank you very much for explaining.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u169	Was there another replica? Joz Tanko, a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u170	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I would expect the President-in-Office to explain to the Minister that the Members of the National Assembly can sit in the Chamber or we can monitor the debate of Members and those invited to the meeting in our premises because we have radio and also television. So I ask you to warn the Minister that this is not her problem, if I'm in the Chamber, this is my right and my way of working. And I was mostly in the hall. Unfortunately, I have to say that I have not heard any arguments about the questions and reasons for the interpretation. And we also wrote for what reasons. Not one. The secretary and the coalition are here defending that the minister is not to blame. But who's to blame? The President of the Government sat here, the Minister said here that we had abused the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and abused the Institute of Interpellation, but that then meant that the President of the National Assembly should be interpreted because he had allowed this procedure into the procedure at all. But the fact is that there was an international scandal, that there were economic consequences, that we wrote what the problems were, in five points. The Minister did not reply to any of these explanations, nor did she give any information or argument that there is no basis for what we asked her. That no one in this country knows whether Haradinaj was arrested at the first crossing across the border or at the 15th, there is something wrong with the system. If it's someone who's registered as an international tyrant. Mr President, this is a border control problem, this is a problem for updating records and so on. In this country these things do not work in purely escaped cases, such as Interpol's system and the records of the tyrants. It's not working. They have an objective responsibility for this. It is worn by the Minister of the Interior, but if this lady is not, then there is someone else in the government, and he is objectively responsible to the President of the Government because these systems do not work because he is the coordinator of everything. And there's one more thing. The President of the Government has made it clear that our allegations are untrue. No government representative has commented on this or documented it. Despite the calls, the Minister of Defence did not confirm whether anything had actually happened to those of us who were on a mission in Kosovo.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u171	Time.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u172	In short, a whole bunch of holes. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u173	Time. The Minister of the Interior has the floor, Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u174	As today's debate is going on, we probably won't come together, but I think we can agree on one thing, which is essential, that in a particular case the police have not violated Article 525 of the Criminal Procedure Act, and I think this is the most important answer for me right now. I don't think it's in my domain that I'm answering today. In fact, it is your responsibility to determine, because you do have all the appropriate leverage to determine this issue. Indeed, Ambassador Gorenak, I did not answer you, but just because I failed, there were a lot of questions. The information was carried out in the same way as in all of these cases, when the procedure begins or when it is ongoing. There were no specifics here.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u175	First of all, my friend Joza Tanko. The replica again? I hope it's true.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mr President, if there is no replica, you will send me to the course. Look, Minister, we're not talking about the police today at this point, but we're talking about a minister who's objectively responsible that some things have happened in the system, and that these things that have happened, you're talking about taking Haradinaj's freedom, certain situations and certain consequences. And that's all we're talking about. We don't have to get any police involved because we don't discuss it. We are discussing the work of the Minister or of the Minister of the Interior. That's what we've justified in this interpretation. Nothing else. And this entanglement that you are constantly trying to redirect a discussion to an area that is not subject to a topic that can not be, in this case only means two: either you avoid responsibility or you do not understand the interpolation institute. I think that's the second more likely. We really can't come together like this. But the fact is that there are international consequences, that there is economic damage, that a whole bunch of other things have arisen and someone is objectively responsible for it. In this case, she is Minister of the Interior. However, when there will be a debate on the work of the police, and perhaps at some time, this may even be required by the coalition at some meeting of the Committee on Home Affairs or at a plenary meeting of the National Assembly, we will talk about other things. This time, however, we are talking about your responsibility and we need to be aware of it slowly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u177	Mr. Gorenak is also a replica? You don't have another one. Yeah, you've got time for a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u178	Yes, Minister, I didn't understand. The seconds are important there, not a minute. Article 12 is clear, but in response you said, "as usual". I don't know what the customs are now, I know what they were like before. I'm asking for an hour and a minute, right? Yeah, sure, yeah, what? I must say that article 12 of the Law is quite clear. And I told you exactly what I did alone in Maribor. A few minutes after that, the police had guidance and also a clear order on how to inform me in accordance with Article 12. Of course not for every detail, but for cases of death, in the case of any use of force or injury, I will say, on one side or the other. The rest, of course not. I gave such instructions in accordance with the law. I didn't understand you here, so I want what the customs are like now, because you said, "as usual." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u179	Ms Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u180	Thank you for your word, chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister, who has repeatedly stressed that she comes from the legal circles to master the law, the rules and, above all, that she comes from the courtrooms. Thank you for somehow describing your résumé to us. But if you already did, why didn't you also tell me you were coming from the Bank of Slovenia? It seems very important to me at these moments. We all know what the situation is in our banks, and this is particularly important to me also because we can take some answers as credible or slightly less. You point out some things, you avoid others. And now to concrete content. You said you didn't hear any violation of the law that was supposed to be reported to you in the entire debate. Now I don't know, I think you've really been sitting in the hall all day, but I'm sure you should hear that because we've never mentioned it. And more. It was not only a violation of the laws, it was also a violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. It is true, however, that there are many other reasons why you are objectively responsible for the situation and consequences. Minister, you say you've responded to everything in your agreement. Now, I ask you, on the one hand, you say that you are very conscientious in carrying out your tasks and giving guidance to the police, that is, the police who carry out their tasks at the border, and on the other hand, you have said in one of your statements today that it is up to every police officer how he will carry out his task and how he will do it. Now tell me: Are we acting in accordance with law and direction or are the police actually on their own? You have also stated that Mr Haradinaj has not done so several times, and you yourself have somehow pointed out that he has travelled within the borders of the Schengen area. Then how do you know this information? But you do not know how many times he crossed Slovenia or how many times he came to Slovenia at that time. Minister, this is crucial information today because, if we don't get it, the findings that we put forward in the interpeel are more than they hold. Mr. Haradinaj has traveled more than 50 times. And all of a sudden, when he came back to Slovenia, everything was wrong. So someone didn't do their job the way they should. But it's not the police's fault. It's your fault. And lastly, even if there was a complication, you have certainly been informed in time and could in fact solve the matter without consequences through your swift intervention. But you didn't do it. Colleagues and colleagues! In the six points, we made clear what an objectively responsible Minister of the Interior is. I know that the coalition MPs, even if they wrote a new constitution here, would say that it is so irrelevant. For for them every document proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party is irrelevant, non-personal and has no basis. But I am surprised for the others that you do not have enough responsibility to see that the conduct of the Minister of the Interior due to the objective responsibility of the Minister of the Interior has been greatly damaged by Slovenia in various areas, both political, economic and security. And you can't deny it, Minister. You can't believe it here or somehow confirm your statements, 'but of course I'm not responsible'. Of course you are! And you don't have an answer for that. Just as you do not have an answer to why Mr Haradinaj has been able to travel through different countries throughout 2004 under the Schengen framework, and it is in June that it is complicated. Perhaps, however, another debate could be held, which is why it is in June. Finally, the Serbian Prime Minister spoke about this. But let's leave it at that. A terrorist who is not present in all countries has been in force in Slovenia. This is essential and crucial. A terrorist who is no longer a member of the Union has been considered by Slovenia. Minister, you, by your conduct, which is sometimes also very arrogant and rude, make our country laugh. As a lawyer, you break the laws, and then you say it's not a problem. It's sad. Last but not least, we talk a lot about the state of justice in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u181	The Minister of the Interior has the floor, Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u182	The first information, which is essential for the full integration of databases to take place in 2009, is before your minister took up the position of Interior Minister as well. Now I don't really understand how I could stop it. Because I cannot and cannot, given that such a decision would actually require a judicial file from the Serbian court, in order to determine whether the actual situation of the tyranny is in line with the Hague court's acquittal. But this can't be the subject of debate at all, because as Minister, I must not interfere with this relationship. In fact, I did not fully understand that observation about Banka Slovenije, because Banka Slovenije is a credible institution, it is not a criminal association that is considered as an obvious interpretation. As for the tyrants, in a particular case, and this has been explained many times today, but I will explain again, the tyranny was valid, it was introduced into the category of red tyrants. Interpol’s legal office, as has been said, has not disputed this and the invitation to tender is visible to all Interpol’s national bureaus. However, regulation and access to the base is a matter of regulation of different countries, so it is different from country to country. Now, if we go back to that famous screen that Member Gorenak is establishing today many times. And the condition for him to show up on the screen is for a police officer to decide on control. To make it easier to understand, I'll explain two more cases. Similar integration of bases as Slovenia has, Switzerland, which arrested the military commander of the Bosnian enclave Srebrenica Naser Orić in Bern this year on the basis of the international tyranny of Serbia. Following his arrival in Switzerland, there was a dispute between Serbia and BiH over his extradition, and Switzerland handed him over to Bosnia on 26 June. Of course, it was decided by the Swiss court or by the judiciary. In Switzerland there was no doubt about the correctness of the procedure or of the judiciary, nor did Switzerland have the reputation in the international community as a result of the said event, which is what you wish to assign to me today because of an identical event. It is another example from 2003, when Agim Ceku was arrested at Brnik Airport, which is also an ex-Kosovo official. The police followed the prescribed procedure, as they did here in court after obtaining the documentation from Kosovo, while at Haradinaj the court, after receiving a note from the Ministry, also reported that it no longer required documentation and that the extradition procedure was not possible because the person had left the Republic of Slovenia. In the Cek case, after obtaining documentation from Kosovo, which was regulated by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or then Minister Dimitrij Rupel, he was also released on the basis of a decision of the Kranj District Court. Of course, there was no interpellation against any minister at the time, not only internal one, there was not even a debate on the subject at all, but I estimate that at the time the times were different, but above all the country's well-being and reputation were not the own interests of political groups. Given that you are constantly asking me how other countries are doing in the case of international tyrants, I will explain again. To begin with, it should be noted that 13 persons were extradited from Slovenia abroad on the basis of international tyranny, namely Interpol, Red Note in 2014. According to Interpol, in 2014 more than 10 thousand such notifications were issued by Interpol and in 2014 as many as 2 000 336 people were received on the basis of these notifications. In short, these are procedures that take place within the Member States and Interpol and are actually a matter of successful police work. Extradition, however, is decided by the judicial authorities and is by no means a matter of policy or of the decision of the Minister of Home Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u183	You'll get your word for procedural, just to explain. That's probably what you'll be asking. On the basis of Article 66, the fourth paragraph of the debate has not yet been concluded, so both the proposer and the Government shall always be able to speak, which means that one and the other are valid. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u184	Thank you so much for saying that. As it concerns order, Mr President, you have given Anja Bah, the proposer, a word before the Minister. But the order isn't like that. Before she signed up, you skipped the minister and gave her your word. That was the procedure you've carried out right now. You can check it out. And that means that you've actually played this thing out at the end of the day. I would like to ask that the presidents, although today you are holding a meeting very differently when the restless members of the coalition and the ministers around these corners are discussing with the Members, do not notice anything when they are disturbing the debate. And even in this case, now that you've decided to give Anja Bah a word, you've asked her to speak without applying, that means the Minister has given up the debate. And now you've given it the other way around. Now you've turned it around. Here I suggest that those who hold the meeting be more careful that you take things seriously, as well as to make sure that we get the answers to the questions. Not only do you conduct the meeting properly, but you also make sure that someone answers what has been asked as a question, because in this case, no practical fundamental question has been answered. There's only one thing that's intertwined left and right. Thank you very much. I suggest that you conduct the meeting properly and that you do not do these things as you have now.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u185	I'm doing the right thing. I've already explained to you in advance, which is why this is the case. As long as you have a proponent and the government still have time, you can talk until the debate is closed. Does the proposer want a word? Again? He's got it, no problem. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u186	Now we're just a little in the middle of something. Now please tell me the President, but that is my closing word or that is the word in the debate as such and then the debate will take place. I think it's important. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u187	Well, I'll tell you. As long as you have one and the other possible word and report to me before the debate is concluded, he can have his word until he spends his time. It's valid for you, it's valid for everyone, but it's only valid for two of them. [[advertising from the hall]] The proposer shall be the last, if he has spent all his time before. But if he checks in with me before, he can use it. I will read this article: The proposaler or his representative and the representative of the Government may also be given the floor during the debate of the Members. The debate is not yet concluded. The debate is closed when the chairman says that the debate is closed. But as long as you sign up for the word, you can talk. Of course, the order is important because I follow this order. If the Group of Members has time, replicas may also be possible. There are no new rules. The existing Rules of Procedure make them possible. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u188	President, I've got procedural. Look, I have to challenge you. You asked me to speak to you first. I didn't sign up. And since you called me to my word, it means I'm the last one in line, and that was my final word. Then all of a sudden, you reopened the debate and left the minister to speak. Now you're just saying that as long as it's time, everyone can talk. I didn't sign up. I therefore ask once again whether this moment is the final word of the proposer or still for discussion. i Finally, however, the debate itself depends on what it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u189	The final discussion of the applicant is part of the debate itself. I do not decide what the procedural proposals of individuals who have the opportunity to do anything in this House are, but I am only holding a meeting. And you can have the floor if you want now, because the debate is not over and you still have time. Do you want a word or not? [[advertising from the hall]] Procedurally, Mr. Matjaž Han, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u190	Thank you very much, President. Let's just say that I'm neutral at this point and that sometimes it's also necessary to say that a person is simply wrong. I have to say, they're on that side right now. We have the order of the debaters, the order of the debaters has gone through the debate and they are gone. It is true that there was still time for discussion, but the last one to get a word before you share the time for everything else is the proposaler. And unfortunately we didn't do it. So, unfortunately, with a heavy heart, but this moment is right with SDS. Therefore, I propose that we conclude that you give the Minister a word first, then the proposer, if they have a wish, because according to your theory, they can discuss the two, and eventually they will run out of time for closing words. Then what?Oh, my God! I would suggest that we finish and vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u191	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert would like a final word? Well, then I'm going to ask you this question: does the Minister first want a closing word because he still has time? No, no, no. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert would like a final word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u192	Thank you. In fact, this prolonged debate has only reopened what we are talking about all the time. The minister doesn't master her functions. He says the D.A.'s still holding up and there is. Yes, then why was it not done as was done for the persons for whom the warrant was issued? Why, then, did the procedure not take place as it did for the persons for whom the notice was issued? And one more thing. Apparently, within the Schengen framework, this tyranny does not apply, and we are an exception. Now I don't know, Minister, I hope you'll be able to come before the other ministers of the other countries and say, "You know, you have no idea, because Haradinaj is all the time, more than 50 times since 2004, it's been traveling peacefully around your countries for 10 years and you haven't done your job." I'd like to know what kind of answers we can get. In short, the answer you certainly have, but you do not want to give it, because it would further reinforce the justification for interpolation, is how many times Mr Haradinaj has crossed Slovenia during this time, how many times has he visited Slovenia and has left it. You don't want to give that information. And you know why not? Just because you'd show that something was very wrong. That is why, Madam Secretary, you are objectively responsible. If you are doing so in other areas, but now I will say seriously, then don't threaten us to create emergency situations, but ask yourself who is creating them. If this is how you operate now in the context of the refugee problem of working each other's way, once there are such rules, secondly there are such rules, then when new waves of refugees are in fact we can all express our concern for our country together. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As I said at the outset, today was not the time to decide on the basis of party preferences or affiliation. It is also not the right time for us to decide on the basis of who sits in coalition and opposition ranks. Today's not the right time. The situation in the country is too serious for the Minister of the Interior to be a person who is incompetent, who, despite legal knowledge, violates laws and a person who does not master his job, so seriously consider what you will do when you press your buttons.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u193	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. If you would also like to discuss Anja Bah Žibert and Minister of Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar, please sign in with your hands up. I'm going to start the application now. Please sign up. 53 panellists have been reported, which means there is no time-sharing. This concludes the debate on interpolation. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Interpellations propose to the assembly that, following the discussion, it adopt the following decision: The National Assembly shall, on the basis of the interpretation tabled, express its non-trust to the Minister of the Interior of the Magi. Spring Györkös Žnidar. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 118 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, non-trust will be expressed to the Minister if the majority of all Members and Members vote for it is 46 or more. If an untrustworthy woman is voted on, the Minister shall be deemed to have been dismissed. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 25 votes in favour and 50 votes in favour. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. I take it the Minister of the Interior is mag. In the spring, Györkös Žnidar was not voted in confidence. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 8. At the end of the day, this is, on a second level, a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on takeovers within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. Now, interested Members and representatives of the Government, please explain the bill further. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravek Počvalska.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u194	According to our firm belief, the bill improves the safety of minority shareholders, increases transparency of the takeover process, reduces the risks of trespassing on the acquisition target, fulfils part of the commitments we have made under Target 2-Securities and definitively resolves issues relating to the country's peaceful voting rights.The solutions represent our response to some of the known business practices in the acquisitions that have taken place in recent years. In preparing them, we have always had before us the fundamental principles of European takeover legislation, the regulation of other legal systems and the commitments we have made with the social partners. The solutions proposed in this regard are: the minimum performance threshold for the mandatory takeover bid, the disclosure of the acquisition plans in the prospectus concerning the retention of the assets of the target company, the addition of the provisions on the flag or the collateralisation of the assets of the target company for the payment of securities, the obligation to disclose transactions with the securities of the target company, both by members of the management bodies and also by members of the supervisory authorities, the addition of a fair remuneration for the exclusion or withdrawal of minority shareholders, and the establishment of a legal basis for the issue of decisions relating to decisions already issued and the alignment with financial legislation. The amendment of the coalition, which we fully support, was proposed as part of the novel proposal. The debate also raised some concerns about individual solutions, in particular regarding the mandatory minimum performance threshold of 50% and one share. We believe that the solution is well thought out, as it will encourage the takeovers to take over before they reach the 33% threshold. Those acquirers who will still have to comply with the statutory minimum performance threshold will have to offer such a price in order to attract the minimum necessary number of shareholders. Finally, we would like to point out that the proposed amendments and additions, regardless of their number, do not deviate from the principles of takeover law on which the existing regime is based. In view of the current topic, we would suggest that the National Assembly, as part of this regular meeting, also carry out a third reading of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u195	The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mrs Andreja Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u196	Honourable President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on the Economy is at its 9th session. 9. 2015 as a parent working body treated the above-mentioned proposal of the law. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which made some general comments to the draft law and specific comments to the individual articles which were mostly taken into account by the amendments tabled by the Coalition Group. The Committee was also presented with the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, which supports the proposal of the law. The amendments to the bill were tabled by SMC, DeSUS and SD. At the meeting, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service drew attention to the consequences for the consignee in the event that a minimum performance threshold was not reached. In the opinion of the service, it is a potentially disproportionate intervention in its ownership right and a free economic initiative. The meeting was also attended by a representative of the Association of Small Shareholders of Slovenia, who explained that the Society does not support the solution of Article 6 because the security of shareholders which the proposed solution was intended to bring is not equivalent to the risks posed by the risk posed by the investment potential in relation to this measure. The representative of the Securities Market Agency explained that the Agency agrees with the majority of the solutions proposed, with the exception of Article 6, on which the Agency considers that in certain cases such an arrangement could result in an excessive interference with the rights of the acquirer. In addition, the representative of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology explained the reasons for the proposed solution referred to in Article 6 as an additional protection for minority shareholders with which the investment potential is not compromised. The discussion expressed the view that the proposal for a law represented a positive step towards greater transparency in the acquisition process and strengthening the protection of securities holders and the effectiveness of controls. Individual discussers highlighted the need for government measures to protect the interests of employees in the acquisition procedures. In this regard, the State Secretary and the Ministry's representative explained that the proposed law provides for the obligation to disclose the master's plans regarding the target company to both shareholders and employees. In addition, the law in force already provides that employees must be aware of the takeover process and can participate actively in the process by drawing up an opinion on the effects of the takeover initiative. The Committee considered amendments from SMC, Desus and SD to Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 8, 9, 11, 12, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 22, 28, 29, 30 and adopted them. The Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended draft law, which is an integral part of the Committee's report, is prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u197	Since the assembly held a debate on the draft law at its 9th session, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendment tabled. 9. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 9 and the amendment of the United Left Group. Anybody want to talk? The word is Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u198	President, thank you very much for your word. The amendment tabled in the United Left would give effect to the right to co-decision or co-ordination, which is a constitutional category set out in Article 75 of the Constitution, and then be further defined in the law on the cooperation of workers in management. And what our amendment is doing is to realize this right of codecision even when we are talking about taking over a society, because at this point this right is in practice not being enforced. Before continuing my debate, I would like to use these minutes to call on my fellow Members to support this amendment from another perspective, which they do not need a bit closer. Look, working together improves the capacity of the economy. Therefore, the enforcement and respect of working cooperation in management and labour co-management is also meaningful in terms of the economy as a whole. It may sometimes go to the detriment of individual capital and individual capitalist, but from the perspective of the whole economy this is certainly a meaningful measure. The most plastic is seen in the case of Germany and the powerful German economy. The German economic miracle has evolved through instruments and labour co-management instruments. In particular, I would like to extend this call to my colleagues here on the right, from the species of Social Democrats and from the species of Desus, but they are a social anchor or a social anchor for this government. In this case, it seems to me that we could be supported by the enforcement and consolidation of labour co-ordination under our amendment. Last but not least, this amendment does no harm to anyone. It simply extends the right to participate on the part of employees. The Act on the participation of workers in the performance of its 91st Article stipulates that the employer must, and I will quote: "... keep the Council of Workers informed and request a joint consultation on the status and personnel issues of society." End of quote. Then, in Article 93, it further states that the sale of the company or its essential part and the substantial change in ownership are also identified as status issues of change. This is exactly what we are discussing today when we consider the takeover law or the amendment of this law. The problem, of course, is that this exercise of co-management and co-decision is often only a dead letter on paper, irrespective of the fact that it is established in the USD, this has simply been decided by Toothless. After the acquisition of a company, the acquirer often intervenes in the number or distribution of jobs, many times to the detriment of employees. We know what we're talking about. We are talking about lowering wages or more specifically forgiving employees. And this information is yet to be included in the prospectus before the takeover, and our amendment is simply to ensure that the potential future owner will also consult the employees of the target company he intends to take over. It is therefore simply a matter of bringing together the acquirer, the management of this target company and the Council of Workers or the employees of the target company at a joint consultation. The quality, the number of jobs, the development of the company and so on depend on the acquirer and the buyer, but those who put the most on the ground here, those who are most at risk of potential negative development after taking over the business are those who are employed, are workers of this company and indirectly a wider society, of course those employees being part of the community, are part of the local communities. Their bread depends on their job, their families' bread depends on their job. These people are simply the ones who are most at risk here and are most at risk because their entire existence is based on this job and is dependent on this job, which some societies may be at risk of taking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u199	Mrs. Andrej Potočnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u200	President, thank you for your word, everyone else, colleagues, colleagues! I, too, would like to pause a bit with the amendment of the United Left, which speaks in particular of the fact that the acquirer, together with the management of the target company, needs to carry out further consultations with the representative of the target company. Let me warn you or remind you that there are already two institutes at the first institute, already under the Act on the takeover of workers, the right of the worker to be directly informed of the intention, the prospectus and the opinion of the management of the target company of the takeover itself. At the same time, workers can, I stress, be active stakeholders in the takeover process by drawing up an opinion on the impact of the takeover offer on employment. The problem that is emerging today, however, is that this right is rarely used in practice, it is said that in fact workers I apologize if you can calm down in the Chamber a little. [[…]] Thank you. The problem is that workers today are not active in this role, but the right is given to them, so it is now on their side, whether they take advantage of this right or not. In addition, under the law on the participation of workers in management, it is already possible to carry out a joint consultation on statutory and human rights issues, on the safety and health of workers at work, and this provision imposes an obligation on the employer to consult workers on these matters. So we can't say that workers actually don't have any institute today and that they would give the worker a new right that he doesn't have today. But I would like to mention another problem that arises with this amendment. If we support this amendment today, there may be a delay in the public publication of the takeover offer and prospectus. What's the problem? The problem arises if the management of the target company is not inclined to the intention of the acquirer, as they can in fact impede consultation in this way, which can lead to this delay, which I mentioned at the outset. The problem is that in fact this amendment does not provide for any sanctions. The sanctions could be justified if they are the reasons on the part of the consignee and the problem arises if the management of the target company exploits this to actually delay this procedure and there is no actual sanction for the target company. It is necessary to take a balanced view of the issue, both of the rights of workers they already have today, and this would not be a new institution, but on the other hand we must look at this free economic initiative and that the takeovers are carried out by legislation, which also has its own institutions and workers are protected. I stress once again, but I see a major problem in the inactivity of employment already in the rights they have already been given today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u201	Mr Zdravko Restoršek, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u202	Dear President, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! With regard to consultation of the takeover with the workers, the takeover target proposed by the United Left, we still have a well-intentioned relationship. We believe that workers could be better and better protected by a fundamental institution of the threshold than by their direct involvement in the takeover process. Moreover, the possibility of consultation on issues of a status nature is already a fundamental right provided by the law on the participation of workers in management. I must say that all my upcoming meetings with this law are positive in at least two companies and are not nearly dead on paper. We believe that, on the one hand, this respect for the threshold is a fairly large security guard and on the other hand the existing co-management law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Miha Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u204	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. See if all this regulation, which is supposed to be working in practice now, contributes to the participation of employees in management, if it works so badly, why do you oppose this amendment that we have given to the United Left. For he takes nothing from no one, for he does not interfere with any serious right, nothing really interferes – except, as we have heard, perhaps at the turn of the right to a free economic initiative. But look, Slovenian society does not suffer from any obstacles to the right to free economic initiative. The democratic and social rights of our citizens and citizens, employees and workers are under threat, not the right of capital to work with property and with people as it is appropriate. Dear representatives of the Modern Centre Party, perhaps this should concern you more and you should deal with it more than by providing a so-called respected economic initiative. The amendment we have tabled in the United Left also realizes the right of employees to co-decision in the event of the takeover of the company. This right does not de facto live in practice today. And this right, you know, it's not just some abstract value, it's not something you write on paper, you shit yourself, and then you forget about it. No, no, no. The right to co-management and co-decision has a very strong, if it is consistently and properly established, very clear and positive effects on the economy as a whole. It leads directly to a decrease in corruption and non-transparency, because they are employed in these companies, where they cooperate with co-management, which are existentially dependent on whether these companies work well or do not do well, and this is their motive, their interest in controlling the operation of the company and thus contributing to the reduction of corruption and the control of transparency. Co-operation and cooperation also help to prevent violations of labour rights, I suppose, I don't even need to elaborate too much here. At the same time, such an inclusive principle of corporate governance also leads to development, to quality jobs, to a stable future for individual companies. The perspective of those who work in these companies, which are employed in these companies, is different from that of the owners who own the management that managers have. The interests of employees are high-quality jobs, they are safe jobs, the development of the company and so on, as I would say, the values of management, management and development of enterprises contributing to their well-being, contribute to the well-being of the company and the communities in which they are located. Of course, on the other hand, we also know what the interests of management, managers and capital are. That's a profit. This is just a business as a verbal engine, which drives capitalism further. And when we put somewhere on the scale of the word after profit on the one hand and interest for quality jobs, for security of employment and for the development of the business on the other hand, and these two weigh, we know what is here, what is common good: development, jobs, safe jobs, quality jobs and so on. Our amendment provides information to workers and from practice, in particular the practice that has taken place in some privatisation procedures recently, we know why this is so important. In a number of cases, the employees were not even aware of the basic information on who was the actual takeover of a company. And the possibility of consultation that we have in the United Left, the consultation with the takeover association does not go to the detriment of the takeover, neither does it go to the detriment of the capital, nor does it go to the detriment of the management strategy, nor does it ultimately go to the detriment of the state. The only thing this proposal does is to extend the rights of workers and allow them to participate more in decisions that are of crucial importance to these workers. Change of ownership is certainly one of those decisions that could be called a decision of fatal importance. The enforcement of such inclusive co-administrative practices is a safeguard against some other practices of abuse of labour legislation, and we also know what they are, we are talking about bullying, we are talking about forgiveness, we are talking about the deterioration of the working conditions of employees that occur in the target society after individual capital is paid. This is particularly important in those cases that we have been able to follow in the past in the privatisation of state-owned enterprises, these practices that we have seen in the past during privatisation, and all show that these practices will continue. It all shows that this practice will deteriorate and that it will move on. There's a whole bunch of bad practices coming together. The government of Mira Cerar completely ignored these practices, did not deal with them, even more, but continued with them. And if it is already determined to continue this negative practice of privatising state property, we certainly do not see any reason for socialists not to protect the rights and welfare of workers in this process, so as not to exercise democratic rights and thereby improve the situation of people in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u205	Anybody else want to discuss this? You want me to process it? Procedurally, Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u206	I would urge you to ensure peace in the Chamber, because in some way we hold that we are tired, but let us be respectful of the subject that we are discussing, including Minister Počvalšek, his co-worker, and to invite all the members of this House to give so many more opportunities to all the discussers to talk about the subject and to show also the attitude towards the minister and the economy in Slovenia, which in some way needs more attention. Please take this into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u207	That's what you've done with your speech. Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u208	Thank you for your word. First of all, let us ensure and be respectful of workers and workers. We're living in capitalism, and my sophomore explained that that's why I lived 30 years longer. We live in a society based on development, not on a post-development society, which could be debated. Young Comrade Micah explained the essence of our amendment. Although I am part of the so-called non-markist minority within the United Left, my personal feeling that we work too often with gloves in the United Left and with you and with the legislative process, that we are even overly aware of what will probably warm us, but obviously in this country and society, if we want to move the stick, improve the rights of workers and workers, and, as Micah said earlier, we are very careful not to step on anyone's tail, it is already, as my students say, too much. In the evening, journalist Jager analyzed the coalition contract and also wrote it in a slightly more polite way that this was never taken into account. This coalition has also entered into a coalition contract, which she wrote down, I will not repeat myself, I know you're in a hurry to go home, but you're obviously not going to stick to it. And I'm not gonna tell you what you wrote down. In short, if we have a good day, if ministers are in good shape, with all due respect for them, we are told, we were pleased to take note, but then there is an excuse. Unfortunately, the United Left is the only representative of the Parliament in this reference, and we will continue to do so, and I hope that it is slightly less in gloves. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u209	Quiet, please! Anybody else want to discuss this? I can't see any hands. Since no one else wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the amendment tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled by 23. 9. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We decide on the amendment of the United Left Group to Article 9. We're voting. There were 66 Members and Members present, seven for them and 48 for them. [[Seven votes in favour.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded by deciding on the amendment and second reading of the bill. We're moving to third reading. Since the second reading of the amendment to the amended bill was not adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 4. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda. This is on questions from Members and Members. A review of the draft conclusions of Members and Members for the debate on the replies of the President of the Government, ministers and ministers has been published on the e-club. In line with the proposal by Mr Mesca, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question of Mr Mesa's mission regarding the draft budgets for 2016 and 2017. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 49. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Iva Dimic, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question Iva Dimic, on the establishment of the Slovenian National Forest Company. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 47. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Matjaž Hanžka, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Foreign Minister Karl Viktor Erjavac to the question of the mission of Mr Matjaž Hanžk in connection with the refugee crisis. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 49. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Ljudmila Novak, the National Assembly will decide on the next draft of the decision.The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Petr Gasperšič, to Mrs Ljudmila Novak's question on the question of the reconstruction of the Ljubljana-Kočev railway. An explanation of vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats is given by Mrs Ljudmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u210	I asked the Minister of Infrastructure whether he would provide budgetary resources in the coming years to complete the renewal of the Ljubljana–Skofljica–Ribnica–Kočevje railway line, which ran out of several million euros. We know that this road is a very busy road, and on the other hand, we have an unfinished railway line on which strange things are also happening. The last time I told you, people were driving across that road just past closed prisons by the red light and the like. Since Slovenian motorways are very busy, I think we should work more to improve railway infrastructure. That is why I have also proposed that this topic be placed on the agenda of the Parliament's session.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u211	The explanation of vote in its own name is given by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u212	Thank you for your word. I welcome and welcome this proposal from New Slovenia. We had a week of mobility, including certain local ministers and ministers taking pictures of who was riding a bike, who wasn't. We have a debate on the second track, but at the same time I know that you do not ride trains, although the presidents of governments like to use this metaphor train, even today Mr Miro Cerar said that we have caught the last train in connection with the refugee crisis to also focus on the development of public passenger transport. After all, it is a region that is not even that far from Ljubljana, but is in some kind of developmental backlog. It's also about the fact that we have supplies in that direction. They've sort of arranged it now, because then the train couldn't drive even ten kilometers an hour. For example, if Ljubljana were to shake a severe earthquake or some so-called centuries-old flood, we wouldn't even have bread because it wouldn't come in time. [[..]] Those who move a little in time and space know what kind of congestion they're causing there. In fact, this debate is necessary and these means should also be found to complete the route, to bring back passenger traffic, which has been gone for a while, and not only is personal passenger traffic being burdened in this way, but in Slovenia we are starting to move somehow into the culture of another and different mobility. Because otherwise they like such politicians who occupy this particular side of the hall very much, they learn to talk about ecology, about sustainability, green, one thing and another I walked with the team of the Green Jury in the White Land and let us actually start creating this, not just talking about it. [[…]] I will vote in favour, of course. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u213	Mr Jože Tanko has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf. I can't because we're already on our own, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u214	Well, sometimes principles are more than anything. Fine, but I'll be on my own. In 2006, the Railway Guarantee Act was adopted. This was within the mandate of the first government of Janez Janša and at that time the section of Grosuplje–Ortnek was placed in this plan. We later tried to move this matter forward, and we also proposed several times in our parliamentary group amendments to the budget under the government of Borut Pahor and Alenka Bratušek to complete this section to Kočev. At that time these amendments fell, each time, it was said that this would try to be arranged in a different way. And this other way has been going on for seven years now. The trail to the Ribnica is made, but it is not from Ribnica to Kočev. I propose that you also support this debate, because I think that these unfinished projects, which are done in half and are not fully functional, are too much in Slovenia. There's probably a lot of other sections like this, but one day we're gonna have to finish these things. We'll do it sooner. They'll be in position sooner. I'll back it up.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u215	Mrs Marinka Levičar has an explanation of her own voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u216	Thank you, President, for your word. I will certainly support the proposal put forward by the President of the Party at the meeting. I would also ask this question myself if Minister Gasperšič had not already answered this question when we had a consultation on Brdo, when he assured me that the funds for this route were provided in the financial plan for the next two years. However, I will support this proposal to hold a debate on this, because I am also interested in how the implementation plan will be carried out, so that implementation will indeed take place. For I am a member of the nomadic end and people from that area have been warning me since I have been in this mandate for a year now how urgently it would be necessary to arrange this end of the railway line for people from this area to have access to Ljubljana by train. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u217	Mr Janko Weber has an explanation of vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u218	Thank you. The debate on the construction of the Grossuplje-Kočev railway line is certainly meaningful, especially because the Court of Auditors has also pointed out this problem and has made it very clear that the Ministry responsible for the construction of this infrastructure has acted recklessly throughout this period. Let me just illustrate that the money was actually provided for the renovation of the entire bearing structure and for the laying of the tracks. If this construction work had been carried out, the route would have been completed by Kočev already in 2012. Unfortunately, there was agreement and agreement with the mayors of the municipalities on this route to build first the signalling device and passenger traffic to Ribnica, and so the route was stopped in Ribnica and Kočevje is in fact cut off. So it was a diversion of funds and something like this must certainly not happen. I hope that this debate, if voted, will help to ensure that such reckless construction is no longer taking place, because it is in fact causing mainly economic damage and also a large backlog of the region, which certainly has potential, but without infrastructure, it cannot be exploited. I will support this debate. However, if there is no funding in the 2016-2017 budget for this route, I say today that I will table an amendment, and I hope that the support for this construction will then be strong enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u219	The explanation of the vote in its own name is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u220	When I listen to the predecessors, I must say that I am extremely pleased because in some ways, what Parliament is dedicated to is manifesting itself. This is that we are discussing real problems intensively and looking for solutions. To discuss infrastructure is one of the key things that we must also deal with in this country. We need to talk about how we will improve our road infrastructure and how we will also improve rail infrastructure. My fellow Member proposed a debate on a specific section. However, I do wish that this place will not be dominated by that very famous coalition: the opposition logic that everything that comes from the opposition is rejected, and that this debate will be confirmed and guaranteed by the majority of the votes. I believe that this will not hurt anything, and at least in the first stage there will be no budgetary implications, so you can probably press "for" with a light heart for this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u221	We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 26 for whom were voted against and 46 for. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Janko Webr, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the replies of the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšić, to Mr Janko Webra's question on the construction of the second railway track between Koper and Divac. The United Left shall have an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u222	Thank you for your word. I will only answer once, although Mr Ljubo Žnidar has also proposed a similar topic. Since the next vote will be, look, I already said in a joke that I would have done this second track myself. Well, you should make two tracks, not just one track. A little basic physics, if the train is standing, and it's well loaded, and you have to keep getting it, how much energy is going, let's do a little math. I also went, not only because I'm on this parental committee, but I'm interested in this topic and I'm covering it in the United Left, for that OECD presentation. I'm also going to ask you how much money it cost, because that's probably what I'd write for a tenth of the money. That was a little bit like that, I'll say, making fun of some important sector of the economy. It seems to me that it is high time that you are somehow through the debate and in Parliament and in conjunction with stakeholders we answer the question, whether or not the second track is and how. If not otherwise, I know when you had a clause in the SMC in a valley, because everyone in one of the hotel windows painted this valley, someone at the end of Cyprus went crazy when you're going to put that answer on the map. Obviously you are not capable of it on an intra-party level, and that is why we should vote here in Parliament, as colleague Tonin said, to hold this debate and to talk about it once. If you are able to convince us or to vote that this second track is not necessary, let us be honest about the fact that a developmental region knows what it is. Either she starts connecting with someone else or she's going to start doing something else and producing. If you vote against this debate here in this National Assembly, I don't know, but then go to some articles of the Constitution, brother, what Members and Members are supposed to do. In the United Left we will support both these relatively identical proposals. I hope that some modern centrifuge party is actually for this and will support it as well. After all, if I look at modernisation as a sociologist, modernisation was linked not only to industrialisation but also to the development of railways. But you are two centuries further modern than that. And if you don't support it, you have to change the client's name. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u223	Is there any other explanation for the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? No, no, no. Mr Janko Weber has an explanation of vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u224	Thank you for your word. I will certainly support the proposal for a debate, because I also proposed it at the time of the question to Minister Gasperšić. The fact is that Luka Koper and Slovenian Railways are crucial for logistics in Slovenia and also for the development of the economy in Slovenia, not only in Slovenia, but throughout Central Europe. and if the model goes forward as assessed by the OECD, then, of course, Slovenia loses its geostrategic position and we will certainly be dealing in the future mainly with the question of how to ensure minimum economic growth in order to at least survive. So all the cream, if I may say so, and all the advantage we have with this situation will go abroad and traffic will turn against Austria. We in Slovenia are talking about 1.3 billion euros worth of a project, in Austria we have already decided and taken a decision for a 10 billion project, which will have half the weight on these tracks as in Slovenia on the second track, and they are not even asking whether it is worthwhile or not. Therefore, this debate is also very much needed because we very clearly reject all the OECD findings, in which the findings were mainly made by port experts coming from northern Europe and wishing to divert cargo to them, not to the Adriatic, Slovenia, Slovenian Railways and then to Central Europe. I propose a debate on this most important problem in Slovenia right now in the field of economics and logistics, and I hope that we will move forward with the second track as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u225	Mr Marko Ferruga has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u226	Thank you for your word. I have to get to that subject, if not, the cross would probably be right at the entrance to the second tunnel in Koper. This pain with the second track is, as far as I'm concerned, because I've been here for a year, a year, but it's been on the coast for 25 years. These enigmatic questions, whether or not we're going to throw a cube, take a look at the glass ball, ask the witches, throw, I don't know, for once, we should say, we're going to start, we're not going to start. [[…]] Because, you know, my dears, the Chinese who came to America made the railroad from the Pacific to the Atlantic on their hands, but they did. I don't understand now. We've got a problem here in 25 years to figure out if we're even gonna do it, let alone do it. I actually have to vote because I want to know for once whether we're going to push it or whether we're going to draw it, I don't know, or whether we're going to ask someone how they're going to do it, but we actually want to know whether we're going to have it or not. If not, we'll go to Istria. What do we do? We'll make our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u227	Mr Tomaž Gantar has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u228	Thank you very much. I, too, think that logistics is one of those areas that actually represents some development opportunity for Slovenia. Of course, we cannot deal with this area separately from the second track, so I also think that in all the debates that have been, and the promises and controversy and studies have really gotten the feeling that a lot of people are working with a fig in their pocket. It would be good if we could get to the bottom of things once, and I also agree with my colleagues here, so I will also support this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u229	Mr Franz Breznik has an explanation of vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u230	Mr President, I hope not to receive a reminder today, because the two yellow cartons in the football jargon mean exclusion, although it is not tolerated as you taught me yesterday. Comrade Ferlug, look, the railway in Primorska would be, but the SDS should be in power for 12 years. Comrade Gantar and colleague Ferluga enter here in the SDS, we have a few more rooms, there are three more, four rooms and the railway will be. But when you have a government story that's looking for excuses, why don't you do something, and why don't you do something to invest all this potential that she's put in now, why don't you do something about it, and we're putting in the potential to do something. And look. during this time when I am talking about our neighbouring countries, I am following the road from Trieste back through Slovenia. This railway, as you know, the Austrians are mass-building. And we're wasting this time. This is a waste of this time since 2008, when they have led stories of some new faces and new clients through fraud. New faces and new parties are also old ideas. This policy of the SDS would have done this railway. It was one of our fixed plans. So just step in here, colleague Gantar, step just 10, 5, 7 meters, sign, step in here, we have a few more spaces, and the railroad, if we have a majority, we'll build. Very simple. I therefore support such a proposal and such a sent question.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u231	We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 37 for them and 30 for them. [[37 votes in favour.]] [[Against 30.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Ljub Žnidar, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšič, to the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the construction of the second track, Mr Ljub Žnidar, Koper-Divač. Mr Ljubo Žnidar has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u232	Thank you, Chairman for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I myself objected to this professional analysis, which was developed and briefly presented at the Ministry of Infrastructure on the economics of the construction of the second track between Divaca and Kopro. On this basis, I have asked the Minister of Infrastructure, Mr Gasperšić, what his further activities will be and what his decisions will be when building or further investing in railway infrastructure. The importance is also a case where quite three issues have actually been raised on this issue of investment in rail infrastructure. I didn't really get the right answer from the Minister himself. We do know, however, that this is the largest investment in infrastructure that Slovenia has ever had. We know that the motorway section has been built over a relatively long period and this investment has been relatively distributed, but the railway will have to be built faster and with much greater value. An important element in the construction of Slovenian railways is also our port Luka Koper. However, Luka Koper behaves as if the construction of the railway does not concern her at all. And the district minister has no direct influence on the organisation and business of Luke Koper. Organising and self-governing Luke is also not optimal. The analysis presented the intermediate steps to build a side terminal, an intermodal transvestment terminal in Divaca and so on. These are all the stages for which decisions need to be taken today. And here time is important, which has already been mentioned today. Decisions must be made here. Since this is such important decisions and it is not to repeat the investment that we do not know at the outset what we would like and how much it will cost, we propose in the SDS that the biggest coming investment be held in this regard.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u233	Before I give anyone another word, let me just explain one thing. Given that the previous proposal has been adopted and if this proposal is yet to be adopted, two discussions will take place because I cannot withdraw them after these two proposals have been adopted. That's a fact. Any other explanation for the voice? Mr Franz Breznik has an explanation of vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u234	Dear President, thank you. Colleagues and colleagues! Now perhaps with a little less humor and satire, because the matter is, I think it's still serious. Thank you for supporting the previous proposal. Many times in history, I'm not talking about the future, I'm talking about history. See, the southern railway, 577.2 kilometers long, which the Austro-Hungarian monarchy began to build in 1839 and ended in 1857 with the entrance to Trieste, was essentially built in 14 years. If at that time, literally at hand, with superb architectural bridges, all that we now show in the form of architecture. That was in 1857, I'm talking about a finished southern railway. Now we are talking about talking about one of the most important logistical goals we have for us in Slovenia. On the one hand connect our only large port, Luka Koper, the potentials we have, through Slovenia to the railway. Around us, Switzerland is building, we can say that it sets world records, as far as tunnels, railway tunnels over 50 kilometers in length, Austria is building mass rail tracks, and we are talking about whether it pays off or not, I don't know what the foundation is. I am not talking about the multiple effects that such a project would bring. We're talking about the railroad, whether it's a hundred or two million more. In the meantime, we have lost two billion or three billion euros, a complex second-rate project, in the difference of interest rate or in the recapitalisation of banks. For this reason, I will not say that you support him, because I think that the debate has already been supported in this respect today, but I think that this is a serious debate, respected colleagues and colleagues, and that we must listen to this debate. My personal perspective is that the second track pays off, and that's how. So I ask you, however you decide, today the President has warned that a two-time debate is not possible. I think that the debate on such an important topic for the development of Slovenia in the field of logistics for the development of Luka Koper is also needed perhaps twice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u235	I didn't warn you, but I warned everyone that there was nothing I could do about it. If this decision is now adopted, then there will be two discussions at the same meeting, not at different meetings, and they will be consecutive points, and I promise you that. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 45. (For the vote was 17.)(against 45.) I note that the decision is not adopted and there will be no two debates. In line with the proposal by Mr Jožet Horvat, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr Anje Kopač Dark, to the question of Mr Jožef Horvat's question on the preparation of labour market reform and pension reform. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 19 votes in favour and 53 votes in favour. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Zvonk Lah, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnetic Nutrition. Mr. Zvonk Lah's question on the Law on State-owned forest management An explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members The United Left shall be given by Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u236	Thank you for your word. Since my colleague Lach is not here, let me tell you why I think this debate needs to be supported. The forest concessions are running out and we're running out of time. The strategy will necessarily have to be taken over, because we know that it has affected us with the pharynx, that the underlings have attacked the forests and the naked are happening. When we go to farmers or to nature, we see how yellow all over the world is, many say that forests are fairly empty and that we do not know why or how. Sometimes we think that adjectives and glands are just an excuse to do that. Are we going to afforest with what we're going to afforest with? Again with the leaves that are once again vulnerable to pests and bruises or what to do? Are we going to start a wood industry that's extinct? A while ago, Minister of the Jews in the National Assembly tabled a proposal for a law [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u237	A little peace, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u238	I know we're tired, and we're all very happy. And by the time of Virant's reign, that marriage had fallen. Now I think it's time to do this dissipation and we'll be ready for the moment that's coming when the concessions fall down, and we need a new strategy, what's wrong with our forests. Above all, there is a fear that this company will fall into red numbers and be privatised, because in this case, dear colleagues, we lose our greatest wealth. I propose that we support the proposal for a debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u239	Any other explanation for the voice? The explanation of vote in its own name is given by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u240	"The Atlas of Forests allows a new look at the importance of trees", Science, Work Annex. Sometimes it's good to read something. Today, I listened for 11 hours to see if a mistake had been made or had not been made, but I am not much smarter after 11 hours. Bojan explained a little to me, and she probably was, but we didn't talk about how not to be done. The wooden chain is very much liked by a fellow Ranc. Estimate of the number of trees for ten countries with the largest trees and Slovenia. Slovenia has the largest number of trees per square kilometer, almost 72 thousand trees. It's some kind of treasure of ours. It's not a ridiculous subject, let's start to realize it. Nor is the funny topic of the forest-economic lobby because they will pressure because they want to keep some of their extra profits. I'm lucky that he's mine, I call him a father-in-law, because I'm not married, and my father-in-law is also an expert in the field, so I'm kind of a layman. Now you're turning your eyes. If you're going to be so "pischmeuretic" to one of the rare riches we have, then, as the mayor of Maribor would say, we're done, or if you want to, otherwise, we're done. I therefore hope that you will support the proposal on this debate, so that we are seriously aware of what our wealth is, what our economy is, and we are actually starting to manage with the forests responsible. After all, neighbouring Austria has actually developed on the forest chain for the last 30 years the existence of peripheral areas, many of their large saws operating on the edge of profitability, but of course they know why they have those saws there, that [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u241	Time.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u242	People live in those valleys, to have something to live on, and then even that edge of "lyfrajo" in the Middle East, because they have a huge terminal, and we're going to have to start with that, too. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u243	We're voting. The 74 present is a Member of Parliament and Members, who voted 28 to 44. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Vinko Gorenak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnetic Nutrition. Dejan jedan, to the question of Mr Vinko Gorenak concerning the planned and used resources of the representative. Dr Vinko Gorenak has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Yeah, yeah, because I have a little bit longer, then I'll ask for it in my own name. Look, I'm just getting a little bit of a bump. At a time when it is exceptional, we will say, the financial economic crisis is our ministers, not inwardly, but I will talk about Mr Židan, later on Erjavac, Mrs Katič, and then all three together. Look, Mr. Židan had 36 000 euros planned this year for the national team. You won't believe it until 1. Seven of them were used by 57 thousand. It's almost once more than I could say. If it continues this way by the end of the year, it is 208 minimum wages. If it continues this way by the end of the year, it is 574 farm pensions, and if it continues this way by the end of the year, it is 19,000 luxurious parliamentary lunches, you know. The world cooks, that one, and we're barely paying for anything. But if you turn it into a price, it's 19,000 and some lunch. Ladies and gentlemen of the SD Group, it would be that each of you is singing down here 3 000 198 lunches this year. This would mean that any SD member could eat lunch here for 12 years free. So, three full terms. It's a terrible number. Let's take a look at Mr. Erjavc. 517 thousand. That means 900 minimum wages, that's 2,000 280 farm pensions, that's 86 thousand lunches. Or, in other words, any Member from Desus can spend 32 years free of charge down here. 32 years, ladies and gentlemen. You can laugh at that information. But that's not how it works if you ask me. With all moral right, I am telling you this because I have spent about 10% to 15% of what Mrs Kresalov spent in front of me. Department of Defense. Let's see what it's like out there. Ah, there are now two ministers there is the situation next, 195 000 euros, both of them from SD, one of us now, Mrs Katič is there, that is, 134 000 euros. That means 3,000 447 minimum wages. This means 977 pensions, 32 thousand and some luxurious parliamentary lunches. The existing SD Member could, if he were one, have eaten 37 years free of charge. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u245	Vinko Gorenak has an explanation for the vote in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Now I just want to tell you the total numbers, and I expect the support of at least those Members who do not have such luxurious ministers. This is mainly true for SMC. For example, the Minister of the Interior is even cost-effective, and then the Minister of Economic Affairs is very low, he is very low – 3,000 euros. What kind of a department is this? Now let's look at the common numbers. If we gave all three ministers together, we'd get 749 thousand euros. But in other words, a thousand 455 minimum wages, that's 3,000 831 farm pensions, that's 37 thousand 902 lunches. Or, in other words, if we play a little more with the numbers, the representative of Mr Erjavc, Katičev and Mr Židan, each member of this national assembly can, at the annual level, take into account the consumption of all these ministers, eat as much as a thousand 532 lunches. Or six lunches every day. Six lunches every day every 90 of us. Ladies and gentlemen, these are numbers that are enormous, you can laugh at them, nothing laughs at me for a basic reason, because it seems to me that the financial situation is too serious in this country, that too many people are starving, but these gentlemen ministers, I cannot say to the camera now, but they are "fucking off", forgive the expression, I mean mainly to the viewers. That's not how it works. I ask for the support of the United Left and SMC in particular. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u247	Explanation of the vote on behalf of Mr Jan Škoberne.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u248	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague Gorenak! I would absolutely agree with you and I would be happy to support the proposal you just mentioned if it were that the ministers spent it on lunch, for dinner, for breakfast, for beer, for wine, for anything. In the case of the Ministry of Defence, of course, the matter is significantly more serious than what you are saying, and than what you are analysing analytically now. This is the total cost of the Slovenian Army's journey, the Ministry of Defence, to receive foreign delegations. And you'll probably be [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u249	Quiet!
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u250	agreed that cooperation, for example in NATO's alliance, participation in international operations, cooperation in common defence and common security issues in the European Union is something the Minister of Defence must participate in. [[…]] That cooperation at NATO Summit is something that the Slovenian Army must also attend. However, if you are trying to tell us with this debate that the ministers of this government should stop their state-of-the-art functions, which we have also assumed with NATO membership, which, if I understand exactly, you have also supported, then we have a serious problem, then it is probably better to call a referendum on whether it makes sense for us to participate in collective defence organisations and whether it makes sense for our ministers abroad to continue to talk about collective security, about common defence and about the situations that we have talked about one day ago that are extremely important and that we need to ensure security here. If we do not intend to cover our ministers or travel costs and we will explain how much lunch we can eat for the cost of participating in the summit on collective defence consumption, then this is all a total of making a fool of citizens and, ultimately, also a meeting you proposed yesterday.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u251	Mr Franz Jurša has an explanation of vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u252	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I must say at the outset that I will not support Mr Vinko Gorenak's proposal to hold a debate in the National Assembly, but not because I would not want to transparently spend the taxpayers' resources received by the ministries, but would still expect the former militia officer, the police commander of the militia, but I do not know what other functions all, to the Minister of the Interior, to verify the data and to have verified data come before the cameras. For the Foreign Ministry, I can certainly say that these are the representatives' funds for the Ministry, as well as for all the embassies we have in the world.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u253	Miha Kordiš has an explanation for the vote in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u254	Thank you for your word, chairman. I will support this proposal. I'm not going to support him because of the statistics that Comrade Gorenak was saying, but I'm going to support them for something else. I remember how bad a year ago we dealt with a budget and I also remember an amendment that we received at the table during that budget. The proposed amendment, which was worth half a million euros, claimed that money was for lobsters rather than for young people. It was a transfer from representation funds, from resources for the protocol to funds for young people. And now for the next 12 months, perhaps it is time to ask ourselves where the half million euros went for the protocol and, indeed, this money would not have been more carefully spent on young people. So I support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u255	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u256	Look at your respectable colleagues, you can see it in me. Thanks to my father for being able to study, first electrical engineering, then economics. The first thing, the exclusion. Each cost of representation shall include the cost of hospitality, entertainment and gifts to business partners. The cost that can be recorded by the accounting service as the cost of representation must be linked to the external business partner or to someone we believe will become. If this does not happen despite your efforts, you will have to explain why business cooperation has not taken place when you visit an inspection. Look, my dear fellow, if that were the case, then the cost of the interior minister's representation, who has flown several times abroad over the past three weeks, would not be EUR 3,000. Dear colleague, the difference between those who came into politics a little bit later, is that we first put something through in our business or work path, in education, and then we stood before the face and people, through laws and through all things. Look, travel costs are by no means representative costs. But the worst thing is, if people listen to it, there's also a unionist at the Ministry of Defence, working in the kitchen, preparing a team where fat is being eaten, where people are preparing for 600, 500 euro bags of acquaintances. I was the head of logistics myself, I was the head of the supply company, where I was monitoring hundreds of such events that were unnecessary. Dear colleague, your speech is something like one rule of a rich man in Germany who failed. He said, "I cann auf alles versionchten, nur am Luxus nicht!" I can give it all up, but not luxury! Do you understand? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u257	Is there anyone else who'll check in? Nice. Mr. Matjaz Han has a procedural procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u258	Look, we're in the field of demagogy now, President. I don't have any problems, Vinko has now calculated it well, I can count it, believe me, I don't have the data, I don't hope to say you're wrong, but you're a first-class demagog. But I'd say something, President. Since nine, we've been sitting here discussing. Yesterday, until midnight, today, we have a meeting of the Defence Committee, and I suggest that we maybe make a little mess of it, that we make some kind of retirement dinner, and I suggest we vote back on this, see how much you've convinced us. How much a minister spends, we'll find a committee and we'll be able to talk without a hitch. I propose that we put to the vote and not discuss it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u259	Will you be quiet? You will. Okay. He has a word to explain to the voice in his own name mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Now, for all those who do not know what the cost of representation is, I can tell you that there is a government regulation in this regard. It applies exclusively to guest services and gifts. Second. Where'd that come from? You can take a look at the website of the National Assembly, the Government's answers to parliamentary questions. And that information is government data. My colleague Gorenak asked me a question and received an answer from the Government. So without deceiving that that's not true. That's government information. If you don't believe your government, ask your ministers, whoever you are, and you'll get this information, but you can look at it on the website of the National Assembly. And here it is not now that there is anything about whether it is a representative or not, or as someone right, because it is also a cost for military missions so on. These are specific items, colleague, specific items in the budget. Now we will have a budget for 2016, 2017, and you can look at them carefully. Look at the government's response, the answer he got, Mr. Gorenak. From this point of view these data are clear, they do not need to be specifically debated because they know what a representative is in this country. That's what every entrepreneur who has to put a representative in their books knows, and I don't think there's a lot of fuss around here, either. I will, of course, vote to discuss this in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u261	The explanation of vote in its own name is given by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u262	Thank you for your word. I'll be brief. I'll follow my colleague Han's advice. I'm not voting for populist reasons, I'm voting for methodological reasons. Because what Mr. Vinko said was too little. I want to see what it's like to seize this team to demystify this team. Because it comes, I don't know, we had the first Romanian delegation and it's a delegation for lunch. That's how it's done. We didn't think of that, because of me, even if it didn't work out, I could cook anyway if we had a kitchen in Parliament. We read that report in the United Left. The one from the Ministry, which has been held recently by the Minister for everyone from Desus, has been a huge mistake. And that is why I think that we need to have a debate about this, to set clear criteria, because in this country we also have something more clever to do than to have every three months, as one hammer bought, and one of those, and then the journalists will hunt us down in the toilet, what kind of statement they would make about it. To actually demystify it. Economic diplomacy is also widely discussed. In short, when talking about this item, you need to know how this item is seized. That way, when you start talking, I don't know, they could have had a party, but it could have been justified. I will therefore vote in favour. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u263	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mr Matjaž German.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u264	Thank you, President. I'm really embarrassed about this debate. I remember when the Social Democrats introduced this radical savings in 2009, we were also ridiculed. You remember the coffee, and the flowers go on like that. These are systematic things. You have, we all know, I've worked a few years in office work, you can't just spend forever like that. What we're going to do now is populism, but the items are pretty clear. As a brief answer, I looked back, for example, the obvious was the Ministry of Agriculture among other ministries, the talk was about 57,000 euros, the cabinet or the narrowing down of the team was allocated 6,000 euros when we were talking about the representative. However, at all Chinese receptions and all that was necessary, it is useless to discuss. But everything else was about promotion, as I'm told here, to finance fair presentations, etc. I will not forget, I once received a visit to Turkey, with all the austerity measures. We came by plane, the army was built, the first thing we did, we went straight to the bathroom because we had a plane like this where there was no toilet. I mean, it takes common sense. I understand, however, that one thing is absolutely what is for the representation and the other is visible, all transparent, we have the Court of Auditors and the appropriate institutions that can verify it. If it were a debate, it would be welcome, but I don't think it's necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u265	When I give any word, two more sign up. I, as chairman, have one option. I'd rather lead and listen to this demagogy, do something much more meaningful. Otherwise I won't tell you what. And if you keep applying like that, I'm actually going to hang up. I have this right to stop, to meet at any moment, and to continue through, say, fifteen minutes. I'm taking this very seriously. Procedurally, Mr. Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u266	Dear colleague President! I'm asking you to lead or run this session without any comments. I'm not going to apply for the competition, who can present this more populistally, but I believe that this competition is ending. I'm just too weak in this populism. But it seems to me that you already have one broad debate here, if this will last, if this debate continues for another five hours, if you vote or vote, "poor mother". Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u267	Also procedural. Yeah. I've got a list of who's next. The next one has an explanation for the vote in his own name mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u268	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I will support the public debate, because the number of these representation costs is really abnormal. And it is easy to say that accounting standards specify exactly three items that can be posted under representative costs. And these are: frequents, fun and gifts for business partners. And look at these numbers. Gifts for business partners and frequents that you can put under the cost of representation, not that they are potential business partners, but those who will become. Each accountant prefers to avoid these costs because you do not know if he will become a business partner. If so, then I propose that the Financial Administration also knock a little on the Ministry of Defence's door, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Maybe you're misaccounting for expenses, and you're not paying the tax the way you should. Then we are again injured by taxpayers — twice. I think it makes sense to have a public debate on this subject. I believe, however, that it is very uncomfortable to listen to Members of the SD, members of the Desus family, where these ministers of yours also walk, who are so vehemently spending money on frequenting, entertainment and business gifts.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u269	Mr Jože Tanko has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u270	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues! I will support this proposal for a debate, and this is because I would like all Members to know first what the costs of representation are, that we will talk about the same things. For some speak of the cost of a representative, but others try to instill that it is all else. The second reason why I will support this is because we have a budget debate ahead of us, and I would like Members to talk about the right definitions. Not that we are talking to one of them about the costs of the representative, and others are talking about the material costs of the same item. This is, I would say, practically very necessary, because then those Members who do not separate the costs of the representative from the material costs, travel costs, talk about a budget of nine billion. And they talk vehemently about which things are real and which are not real, but they do not separate those small things that we would now discuss and at least clarify the definitions of what is what, they taught themselves what the regulation says, so that we can lead the budget debate in some appropriate way. Without everyone saying what he thinks is right at some point in a budget line. And this is a key problem when Members who talk about various things don't even know the basic definition. As a result, we also have a lot of voting errors, including a lot of wrong decisions, and then you wonder why we are opening up a topic. That's because you don't know what you're deciding. I'll support the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u271	But now so many have come forward, I'm going to do what I said. I'm putting an end to this session and we're moving on at 21.10.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u272	Dear colleagues, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We're continuing our session. First of all, I'm going to find out that I have three more explanations for my own name. Anyone else besides the three that I'm going to tell you to explain their voice in their own name is Matjaz Han, mag. Branko Grims and Mr. Tomaž Gantar. Anyone else want to explain their voice in their own name? No, no, no. We listen to you three and we vote. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u273	Thank you very much. We've all calmed down a bit. The only thing I agree with you is the definition of representation. We all know what a representative is. The representative in the companies and the representative in the state budget is slightly different, it has nothing to do with the tax. Now I will tell you how Dejan Židan, the Minister of Agriculture, was quoted as saying in the sub-contracts of the representatives that these 57,000 euros had arrived. Just for a strict representation, what you're saying, eating and drinking, he's spent 6,000 euros, I agree. Secondly, due to the new development of the countryside, which is a difficult billion because of the need to make a variety of deposits, he gave the Ministry EUR 25 000 and was given one sub-total. Another time. The same ministry goes to the Berlin Fair every year, Mr. Breznik knows everything, Die Woche, half a million Germans, there went about 15,000 euros for this fair where Slovenian producers deliver their food. That's one thing. That's another thing. As Vice-President of the Government, according to the protocol, he received a team from China, 150 people from China and another sub-committee from around €7,000. That's why this amount is 57 grand. I propose, however, to vote against your proposal now, Mr Vinko, but I propose to the President of the Commission for the supervision of public finances that we deal with this on the Commission and it will be clear there whether it has been right or wrong and whether this money has been used in accordance with the budget adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u274	The explanation of the vote in its own name is mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u275	I will vote in favour for a very serious reason because I want to know what the impact of this team's spending is. And for at least one ministry, I'm saying he's bad. This is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Today is a very sad day for Europe. Schengen was a symbol of openness and freedom. Yesterday I announced that if the Schengen did not take effect outside, if the borders did not close out, they would begin to build on the inside. And today is the day when, for the first time in the history of the European Union, a new wire has been placed between the two countries of the Schengen area. At our border, Hungary is currently building a barbed wire, setting up a high rail fence on the border crossings. Ladies and gentlemen, if anyone does not understand what this means, only the day when the Germans close their borders, and they will, believe me, sooner or later this day will come, and immediately after them the Austrians, then not only will they have to have plans, but they will have to be prepared to ensure full control, full defence and if the complete closure of our southern border is also needed. And that money for the team should then be given to our officers, our soldiers, all those who will ensure that our borders are secure and that everything will work so that we will also be safe citizens of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u276	Mr Tomaž Gantar has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u277	Thank you very much, President. I will vote against it, not because I don't want to debate it, but because things are perfectly clear. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, whose representation budget is indeed €513,000, has been realised over a six-month period of 200 000 euros. This is intended for the entire network of diplomatic and consular representations, which means for all embassies and representations in the first half of around EUR 33 000 per month. I think it is clear to everyone that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in these representations needs a certain representation and is very rationally organised. I'll vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u278	We're done explaining our voice. We're voting. There are 49 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 13. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 13.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Marjan Pojbič, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravko Počvalska, to Mr Marijan Pojbič's question on the sale of state property. Mr Marijan Pojbič has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u279	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I hope that there will be no plaza of explanation for the voice as it was for the previous question, although this topic is extremely important. Given that I did not receive yesterday 'exact answers from the Minister' to the questions I asked Minister Restoring' regarding the alleged irregularities in the privatisation of Paloma, I proposed that this issue be discussed in the National Assembly. Since I have a feeling that the Minister has put himself on the side of the violators, i.e. those who want to drive Paloma on the path of wild privatisation, as the documents available suggest that Paloma's Director Gosak was allowed to violate the Slovenian State Holding Act, SSDH1, concerning the privatisation of Paloma, as SDH allowed only one of the six internationally reputable investor potentials to be favoured at the same time as the sale of the majority stake in Paloma. That the President of the Paloma administration illegally reserved funds to pay the prize for 2014, amounting to EUR 25 000 net and thus burdened the company. It is also clear from the Minister's account that a contribution of EUR 229 000 has already been paid to workers under an individual contract and to the director of the company in Paloma. Compared to the amount paid for the prizes paid for the remaining employees in Paloma, some of which amounted to only EUR 80 000, i.e. EUR 150 gross per employee and EUR 125 net per employee, this indicates that the Director of the State Enterprise, the state-owned company Palome has earned a prize for its work in the company, which is 200 times more than the employees received. Mr Palome, a respected director of the state company, also fired a large number of employees from the company who practically co-created and created Paloma and brought about 20 new people to the company and spent almost EUR 800,000 on them together. Anyone can imagine and the answer is clear to anyone. We are once again in a situation where those who are privileged on the one hand, I do not know what kind of criminal society in the back, create the conditions for them to exhaust state-owned companies. I was expecting, there were SMC colleagues here to cut it once. Please confirm this, that we will once cut and stop the depletion of state-owned enterprises.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-09-24-SDZ7-Redna-11.ana.u280	We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 24 for them and 35 for them. [[There were 24 votes in favour.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Members and members of the Defence Committee will be informed that a committee meeting in room 212 will begin in 15 minutes. I am adjourning the 11th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m.
