ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 16th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1 and paragraph 2 and Article 60, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Ksenija Korenjak Kramar, Mr Primož Hainz, Mr Matjaž Germany, Mr Jan Škoberne, Mr Franz Breznik, Mr Jani Möderndorfer, Mr Franz Laj and Mag. Alexander Kavčič. I invited representatives of the government to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 16th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received your draft agenda on Wednesday 8 July 2015 by reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. The PSC proposes that the agenda be extended by the following point A1. Proposal for the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding, EPA 647-VII. You have received a proposal for enlargement 16. Seven. 2015 and published on e-club. Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky. Excuse me. Wrong notice, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u2	Thank you, Mr. President. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 282 of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to ask you for a clear explanation concerning the conduct of the meeting. I wonder whether the members of the group have the right to ask for a 45-minute recess to be decided before the vote? Let me explain why I'm asking you this. A joint meeting of the Committee on European Union Affairs, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and the Committee on Foreign Policy took place this morning at 10 a.m. When I requested a 30-minute recess on these committees before the vote as deputy head of the parliamentary group on these committees, I was transported. Of course, there was a talk about Greece and whether these three working bodies would support or give a mandate to the finance minister to defend such a memorandum as we now have. And this procedural proposal, which is completely in line with the Rules of Procedure, was not adopted and was, as I would say, simply transported. I now wonder whether this is the democratic, ethical or moral practice promised by the Modern Centre Party, since the chairmen of these three commissions have been the representative of this party, whether it is an anomaly that has occurred and will not happen again. I am aware that you may consider this an abuse of the procedural question, but given that we will also vote today, I am interested to know whether we will be able to ask the United Left Group, or in any other group, before the vote, to determine this recess, or whether this is simply not permissible in this mandate anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u3	With regard to individual points, when we come to a substantive response, of course, a 45-minute break may be used after all the votes have been reasoned and only a vote is taken. This is what goes on at the plenary session itself. While you know well, both you and I, that we have a problem with the management of individual working bodies and that we must call upon internal advice in this regard to harmonise all the practices that exist at this point, and this is another point that will be held at this meeting. Would you like to speak with the President of the Committee on Elections, Dr. Mitja Horvat, as a representative of the proposal for enlargement? [[No, no, ……]] Does the representative of the Government want to speak as a proposal for appointment? [[No, no, ……]] Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? Mr Jože Tanko, on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Mr President, we will not support this proposal to extend the agenda. In particular, not because none of the applicants clearly and unequivocally replied that some of the proposed candidates did not meet the conditions. That is why we wrote to the President of the Mandate-Volution Commission in the parliamentary group on 8 July. Regrettably, the President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission did not send this letter to the Government and to the Government at its own meeting of the Mandate-Electority Commission, and it was not decided whether the Government's proposal was in line with the Slovenian State Holding Act and the Integrity Act. Secondly, we have also proposed to ask the Government, given that some candidates have found that their CVs are not complete, that their CVs be supplemented. We have made another proposal that the Government submit us with an integrity test both for members of the Commission and for elected members for the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding. We didn't get that either. However, it is more than obvious from this point of view that both the selection procedure for the selection committee and the selection procedure for the members of the Supervisory Board for the recognition line between the Bled Business School and Forum 21. For one of the members of the selection committee, Dr. Danica Purg, is the Director of Bled Business School and also a member of the Forum 21 Programme Board. The selected candidate, Mr Kos, is employed by Sandi Češku, who is a member of the 21st Forum Management Board. In short, in this part it is a recognizable political line, which has already been deeply involved in all these property processes and also in the management process of state property, which so far, apart from the high recapitalisations or write-offs of Slovenia, have brought nothing good. Given that you have not attracted to our proposals and that it is more than obvious that there is a conflict of interest and that it is political recruitment, we will not support this proposal to extend the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u5	Is there any other explanation? Presentation of the position of the Group Joint Left, Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll try to be shorter than the predecessor. Even in the United Left, we will not support the proposed extension of the agenda, because we cannot agree with the procedure. He was expressive, he was intransparent, and we can also tell him that he was undemocratic. In addition to all the procedural reservations mentioned above, we also have one substantive reason why we will vote against it, which is that there will still be no representatives of employees in state-owned enterprises in the new supervisory committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u7	Any other views? [[No, no, ……]] Does he want a word now with the President of the Mandate-Voluntary? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members, Members of Parliament, Minister! The Commission's mandate was to raise the same questions as at the time of the presentation of the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. At the meeting itself, the Minister gave a qualified response and overturned the indication of the inappropriateness of the candidates. He also said that the integrity test had been carried out, so that the Commission carefully prepared a proposal for the Government and this proposal, which the Government had sent to the National Assembly for consideration, also met all the criteria laid down in Article 39 of the SDH Act. We also pointed out at the meeting that, of course, the task of the National Assembly and the Mandate-Electorial Commission is not to assume the powers of the Commission for the selection of candidates, because the Commission has done so knowingly and carefully. All doubts about the reasonableness of the question of the fulfilment of the conditions were therefore eliminated at the meeting itself, which was then finally confirmed by the decision itself, which is why the proposal to extend the agenda before you, while the conclusions proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party in the same form were rejected by vote. I think that everything has been done correctly and there is no doubt that the proposed candidates are such as to meet the conditions laid down by the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u9	Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, I propose that you invite Dr Mitjo Horvat, President of the Mandate-Volution Commission, to take a look at the magnetogram of the first meeting of the Mandate-Volution Commission, when we have considered this item, and also the follow-up sessions when we have considered this item. Not at either session was he not as a candidate or, on behalf of the Government, Dr. Marble even attended the meeting. It is more than obvious from the magnetogram that the claims made by Dr. Marble at the Mandate-Electorial Commission at the meeting and at the following meeting did not stand even what was recorded in the biography of individual candidates who denied it themselves. That is why we have also referred to the Mandate-Electorial Commission to request that these matters be adequately complemented and stabilised. We regret that Dr Mitja Horvat, President of the Mandate-Election Commission, and also the coalition that voted on this, have not supported this. What Dr Mitja Horvat said or said earlier has absolutely nothing to do with the facts at the meeting or at the following meeting concerning the point related to the appointment of supervisors in the Slovenian State Holding. It doesn't fit the facts. Please call on Mr Mitjo Horvat to review the magnetogram of the session he conducted if he has not memorized or recorded it himself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u11	At this point, this procedural proposal is completely out of place. For we are talking about the agenda and the expansion of the agenda, where it is the turn of all representatives of individual parliamentary groups, who are the only ones who can speak at the moment, both the proposer and the Government, have all done so and that is it. This is not a relevant issue at this point. At this point, we are only talking about whether we are going to vote on this draft agenda. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko. I hope it's not the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Don't be afraid, I won't repeat myself. However, if the President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission argued the reason for extending the agenda and explained that the Minister had all the dilemmas and all the questions raised at the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, it was more than logical to suggest that he should read what had been at the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission. What Dr. Mitja Horvat has earned does not hold up the credibility test. That's why I'm obliged to warn you. If necessary, I also propose the suspension of the half-hour session to review this, because you are clearly advocating and allowing some violence against the National Assembly, even though you are probably taught about all things, and in particular of such important matters as the appointment of the President of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding, that you can assess for yourself whether your fellow Member spoke with credibility and whether there were no facts or facts. It is more than obvious that sometimes, if a solution is to be enforced, the facts are also somewhat distorted, only to achieve the goal. I suggest that, due to the credibility of my statement or his statement, you allow for an examination of the magnetogram and you can see whether the minister actually responded or said something that was written differently in the CV candidates. That is what my colleagues, Mr Logar, Mr Breznik, have repeatedly pointed out in the debate. Unfortunately, with the facts and falsified facts, Mr President, there is no reason to extend the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u13	I warned you earlier that if you repeat yourself, a reminder follows. This time, it's a reminder because you said I was committing violence against the National Assembly. Mr. Tanko, if anyone in this National Assembly has ever found out about a violent act, you have committed it. I can't afford that kind of obvious. A warning! Now let's get on with it. We have therefore concluded by presenting our views. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 25. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 25.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. We are moving to a full vote on the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as received by reference and with a follow-up. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 24. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 24.]] I take it that the agenda of the 16th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving to A1. At the end of the day, this is on the eve of a proposal for the appointment of members of the Supervisory Council of the Slovenian National Holding, D.D. The proposal for the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding Board was submitted by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. Does the representative of the government want a word? Dr Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u14	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Over the past year, we have managed to simplify the governance system of state funds and gradually implement the principle of an independent operator and its separation from the executive functions of government, all of which, in the context of the implementation of the OECD guidelines on corporate governance of state-owned companies. An extremely important milestone in the enforcement of good governance practices was the adoption of the Decree on the State Capital Investment Management Strategy, which you endorsed in the National Assembly this week. With your decision today, this is still followed by a renewal of the management bodies of the Slovenian State Holding, the Supervisory Board and the Administration. In accordance with Article 40 of the SDH Act as the competent minister, I am in accordance with the procedure for the formation of the Government's proposal to the National Assembly. 5. In 2015, he appointed an expert committee composed of experts with exceptional experience in the work of supervisory boards, management of human resources and corporate management: Dr. Peter Kraljič, Dr. Danica Purg and mag. Alexander the Adventures. The expert committee has acted in accordance with legal provisions and the highest professional standards and has first developed the criteria for assessing the professional knowledge, experience and skills needed for the quality management of the SDH supervisory board member's function and has established the text of the professional competent profile for a member of that body. Days 20. 5. has issued an open public call for members of the Supervisory Board and has received applications from 64 candidates. On the basis of an analysis of the applications, it found that 32 candidates did not meet the basic conditions laid down in Article 39 of the Law and therefore excluded them from further consideration. The remaining 32 candidates who met the basic conditions were further examined by the Commission following the procedure in accordance with the required professional profile, in terms of professional education, professional knowledge, foreign language skills, work experience and competence profile, and created a narrower selection of 15 candidates. This was in line with the provisions of the public call for a notice of inclusion and invited them to submit the required evidence and 5 candidates from the list to complete the application. Following the submission of the evidence and the addition, the Commission found that one of the candidates who had entered the restricted selection had not submitted all the requested elements of the application and had therefore excluded him from the subsequent procedure. The Commission thus concluded that the applications of the 14 candidates from the lower election were complete and that they met all the conditions and requirements laid down. Following the procedure, the Commission took into account the requirement of Article 39, paragraph 3, of the Act that the SDH Supervisory Board should be composed of members who complement each other in terms of expertise and competence. It should be appointed experts in finance, corporate governance, the management of liabilities and assets and corporate law. It unanimously drafted a proposal with 14 candidates, grouped into three groups of 5 members of the SDH Supervisory Board. The expert committee presented me with such a structured proposal from the members of the Supervisory Board on 30 June. 6. 2015 and thus finished her work. I have carefully examined the Commission's proposal and decided to amend and supplement its proposal to the first group of 5 members of the Supervisory Board, taking into account the candidates in its second and third proposals. In accordance with the provisions of the law, I have also made public the completion of my proposal to the Government and the Commission's proposal. In accordance with the conclusions of the expert commission, all proposed candidates shall comply with the conditions laid down in Article 39, paragraph 1, and Article 39, paragraph 2, of the SDH Act. In addition, compliance with Article 39(3) of the SDH Act is ensured as all proposed candidates complement each other in terms of expertise and competences and include financial experts — two of them; corporate governance — all; commitment and property management — two are specialised in this field; corporate law — one of the proposed members, as is evident from the presentation of candidates in the government proposal. The government proposes that the National Assembly appoint the following members and members of the Supervisory Board: Barbara Smolnikar, Damjana Belic, Draga Ferfoljo, Duška Kosa and Lidio Glavina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u15	The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which gave written reports to the assembly and submitted a proposal for a decision. Would you like a representative of the commission? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Anybody want a word? Mr. Franz Jursha, Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to my friends and friends. Your Honor! Managing state property is one of the most important areas of each country, of course ours. I can almost say that since independence, politics has been arguing over asset control. Over the past few years, we have become more active in this area. Maybe even because of the crisis that put us on the real ground. I must mention that Desus actively participated in the adoption of the provisions of the SDH Act and in the formulation of the strategy in this mandate. No one had hoped so far or it was not of interest to clearly define the objectives of the management of state property. What does it belong to, keep what, and sell what? Personally, I do not think that there was any interest in this, because the chaotic situation has made it possible to act uneconomically, to take advantage of state property and, consequently, to exhaust our so-called silver, which is intended for all of us and our craftsmen. We now have a law, we have a classification of state property, we have a strategy, we still lack the identification of those who will control it. We have before us a package of five names, names of experts who will watch over more than EUR 11.4 billion worth of state property. I believe it's not that simple to give someone such a responsible task. That is why the recruitment procedures have also been considerably delayed. Do these people have political support? One piece, not the other. And unfortunately, it is our political practice to always stand on opposite shores. Regardless of who's in power, the opposition is always the opposite. Let us go beyond this once, at least with key decisions concerning our citizens and citizens. Also, the appointment of the SDH Supervisory Board, according to our assessment, is among the decisions on which the policy should come together. It's about our people, our country, about which in 1990 we were all excited, full of hope and start-up on plebiscite. And where did we bring her? We've been discussing these names for six hours on the Commission's mandate. I wish this debate were constructive. No, it was full of instigation, error-seeking, labeling candidates, certain political parties, discredits, and more. People of God, there are less than two million of us. The main European cities are more numerous. To find people who are top experts in this area who have never been members of political parties or their sympathizers who have never even spoken to any policy or have found any opinion of politics and at the final stage, which is extremely important, who are willing to expose themselves and report and perform this challenging task of responsibility. There aren't many candidates who would be willing to put their name on the ground to be dismembered into the prefectures, that's an extremely large supply. Let me finish. The Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners believes in the expertise of the Commission, which has chosen the names of the persons entrusted with the control of the property of our country. Let us trust that they will carry out their work with responsibility, transparency and, above all, independence. All candidates are variable for us, so we will contribute our votes to their appointment to the supervisory board of the body that will oversee our common assets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u17	The position of the Group The United Left will be presented by Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u18	Thank you, Mr. President. In the United Left, the proposed members of the Supervisory Board will not be supported for three reasons. The first one's in charge. We cannot support any composition of the Supervisory Board until the employees of the state-run companies SDH have their representatives in it. If we supported the decision, we would give legitimacy to this exclusion. The National Assembly could correct this anomaly in April, but the amendment of the SDH Act, which we proposed in the United Left, was rejected. If the coalition, for which economic democracy is one of the priorities, agrees to exclude employees from the supervisory boards of banks and SDH, it will have to apologize to its constituents and we will not participate. In addition, in the United Left, we do not believe that directors of state and even private companies can exercise public interest in state-owned companies. Dr Cerar often roars against the alleged management networks, which are supposed to exhaust state-owned companies, while at the same time convincing us that members of the same management group are independent. They are certainly independent of citizens who own state-owned enterprises and are certainly independent of workers who are employed in state-owned enterprises, but are not independent of the social and visual management-capital mile. At least what the Government could ensure would be avoiding a potential conflict of interest. The SDH Supervisory Board also indirectly supervises state banks. How, then, is it possible that the head of the NLB Group is supervised by the Director of her daughter's service? If I conclude, we will not support in the United Left any composition of the Supervisory Board, from which representatives of employees in state-owned companies will be excluded and will not respond to democratically elected authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u19	The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be presented by Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u20	It is an extremely important decision, one of the most important decisions in our mandate, that is, how and how our assets will be managed. In the New Slovenia Group, it would be unfair to say that everyone on the list is incompetent and unfit to control property. Nevertheless, there are some cases where a rather unfortunate conflict of interest can be identified, so the New Slovenia Group will vote against the proposed list.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u21	The position of the SDS Group of Members will be presented by the mag. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u22	Dear Minister, President of the National Assembly, honourable Members! Rarely does any appointment of staff receive or receive as little media attention as in this case the appointment of a five-member Supervisory Committee of the Slovenian State Holding Board, even though it is 11 billion euros in assets. The media have been rarely alerted to some reported irregularities in appointment, but let me quote some of these observations. Three of these five proposed candidates should clearly not meet the legal conditions laid down for members of the Supervisory Board and there are four candidates with a degree in the IEDC Business School. The mandate-election commission has set itself a very ambitious plan, in an hour and 45 minutes it wanted to appoint five key persons under the roof to manage Slovenian assets of EUR 11 billion in the future. Of course, this invoice did not come out last week, so we had a meeting to continue where it was obvious that the coalition wanted to conclude this debate as soon as possible. The Minister sat at both meetings of the MVK only at the beginning. He apologized every time for other obligations and left the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission. Sorry, it is 11 billion assets and it rarely happens that other topics are more important than the so-called Slovenian silver. But the ruling coalition did move on. At the time of the meeting, the Minister informed us that all candidates were outstanding candidates and that everything the media wrote about was not true. When we confronted the Minister and later Secretary of State Draganjo with evidence that they did not hold this information, we did not receive a further reply. Moreover, in the context of the Minister, Mr State Secretary Dragonja said that he did not participate in this committee alone, that it was the sole responsibility of the Minister to appoint the Commission in a responsible manner, and that he was finally able to learn about the selection of the Commission. Why is this committee so important? Because at least two members are members who then also set up a staff composition. On this committee was Dr. Kraljič, an honorary doctorate of the IEDC School and also ten years supervisor of this school, and Danica Purk, who is known to sit in the Forum 21 programming world. In the debate we found that this round of five candidates consists of some kind of triangular Forum 21 – the IEDC Business School – the YES Association. When we wanted to ask the ruling coalition about the so-called integrity test referred to by the minister, and we wanted information that the candidates did not provide all the data, to review this integrity test, the ruling coalition voted against it. On the issue of the integrity of the proposed five candidates, in order to inform Members whether the five candidates mentioned really covered all integrity and the test had ceased, the ruling coalition therefore voted "against". Thus, we now have a set of five candidates who are likely to be under discussion. If we fly quickly, 11 billion assets will be decided in the future by a proud member of the EU, a bankruptcyist, a sociologist, a director of a company based in Cyprus and a newly certified graduate with a supervisory examination of 15. Ten. 2014, recently. The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u23	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Not yet. Mr Matjaž Han then has the floor to present the position of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! The appointment of members and members of the Supervisory Committee of the Slovenian State Holding is certainly one of the most important and responsible human resources decisions of this mandate, of course adopted by the National Assembly. So, of course, not all the excitement and big words about candidates are surprised in advance before we give them the opportunity at all to show their knowledge and competence. Under the Slovenian State Holding Act, the Minister of Finance appointed a special expert committee composed of Dr. Peter Kraljič, Dr. Danica Purk and Mag. Alexander the Adventures. So, don't mind me, but for my understanding, recognized experts with experience with the functioning of the control councils. In accordance with its competences, the Commission considered all 46 candidates, finding that 32 candidates and candidates did not meet the basic conditions and, on the basis of this, put 14 candidates in the Council and formulated three different proposals from five members for the SDH Supervisory Board. In this way, the Ministry of Finance made available five people, namely Barbara Smolnikar, Damjana Belic, Draga Ferfoljo, Duška Kosa and Lidio Glavina. The fact is that all candidates and candidates have received adequate education, and it is also important for my concepts that many years of work experience in the most responsible jobs, in the authorities of various recognised and established companies, both domestic and foreign. In the Group of Social Democrats, we welcome in particular the fact that candidates and candidates have very heterogeneous knowledge and experience. This means that they will be able to complement each other in their work, or they will be able to divide their responsibilities according to their knowledge and experience. However, we regret, of course, that so many bad words and so much negativity about individual candidates have been spoken in recent days. Before these candidates got a chance to prove themselves. We believe that no one deserves such travel because of the principle of mutual dignity and mutual respect. In the Group of Social Democrats, we assess that the proposal for members and members of the SDH Supervisory Board is on a professional level and otherwise good, so of course we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u25	To present the position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues! The selection and appointment of candidates for members of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding has been justified in at least the last six months for public, professional and political attention. In the position of the SMC Group, I would like to point out two stellar angles to which we have given central attention in our decision. The first is respect for and observance of the principles of the rule of law. With a view to effective and transparent State-owned operations, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted the Slovenian State Holding Act in spring 2014. According to the Act, the Slovenian State Holding Company, its founder and sole shareholder is the Republic of Slovenia. This same law provides for a two-tier SDH management system run by an administration responsible for all SDH management decisions and appoints its President and two members to the Supervisory Board, whose main task is to supervise the implementation of SDH management and operations acts. The tasks and powers of the SDH Assembly shall be exercised by the Government on behalf of the State. On a proposal from the Minister of Finance, the Government participates in the appointment of five members of the SDH Supervisory Board, on a recommendation from the Special Expert Commission, together with the National Assembly. Articles 39 and 40 of the Act provide for the manner and conditions of election and the appointment of members of the SDH Supervisory Board. The first lays down the conditions for the appointment of candidates as a member of the SDH Supervisory Board and the second provides for the appointment of the Supervisory Board. Candidates serving as supervisors are expected to demonstrate the highest degree of personal integrity, business ethics and sufficient experience in comparable jobs. The Ministry of Finance or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is responsible for meeting the five candidates before us. However, the final stage in the process of their confirmation lays down the first paragraph of Article 40 of the Act, which states that all members of the Supervisory Board shall be appointed by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government and shall give their consent to the entire Government proposal and shall not be able to amend it. Before we do so, let me mention another important aspect that we have taken into account in our parliamentary group in our decision. I am talking about the aspect of responsibility, namely the responsibilities of the candidates, the proposer and us, Members, the responsibility of our citizens and the country. State ownership must be for the benefit of all citizens, it brings its own benefits to represent an important part of budgetary revenue and become a pillar of the social state. And so far, as we know, this has not been the case very often. The modern centre party has already committed itself to improving corporate governance in state-owned enterprises in its pre-election programme. Among the measures for a successful and socially responsible economy, in its programme, at the start of a good year ago and before the elections, it recorded a measure of government management through the effective functioning and management of SDH and a clear strategy of capital investment management and corporate governance code. The main purpose and mission of SDH is to completely cut the cord through its operation through which the political elites were fed from state-owned enterprises. The business results of most of them show that these impacts were detrimental to both companies that operated worse than comparable private-owned companies, both for politics and especially for this country and its citizens. For this reason, it is also impossible for anyone to exercise professionally responsible and transparent management of state property. In the SMC Group Member, we will support the proposal to appoint the members of the SDH Supervisory Board, which is before us and which the Government has given us, because we believe that the whole process has been made by the letter and the rule of law and that we will all be responsible for this process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u27	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. On the basis of the fifth paragraph of Article 67 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that each speaker on the nomination proposal may only discuss once, with a maximum of 5 minutes. We vote on such a proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 19. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 19.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Anybody want to talk? Please sign up. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u28	President, thank you so much for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, I know it's already afternoon, the last session before parliamentary holidays, but I think that on the agenda is the most important point in the last period, and I regret that there has been a majority in the vote that this debate will be limited. I think that this point should be discussed and discussed in particular. However, if I sum it up, we are talking about who will control 11 billion assets. We're talking about who should be the most suitable candidates for such a function. We have previously heard from the largest party in this National Assembly, SMC parties, that this is the responsibility of those who will be appointed to this Supervisory Board, as well as those who propose to take responsibility. Your Honor, this is an untruth. In a way, it's a lie. The fact is that you spoke the same way when you took the mandate of one of the Members. At that time, we listened to SMC's official statements on your side to take responsibility. Did you? You're not. How, then, can we believe that you will take responsibility for this too? You won't. You know why not? Because we've alerted you to individual discrepancies in these names. I don't want to discredit individuals, but, as I said, we're talking about control of 11 billion valuable assets and that in some ways it must be people who are, like the right river, pure as tears. Any minor doubt should mean another additional thought for all of us. That's not what you wanted. Allow me to return to just one of the proposed names. Mr. Dusko Kos and once again Kalandro's company. If the gentleman in question was not able to supervise the company, which was financed from abroad, which received money from state-owned enterprises and the country, as a member of the then administrative board, that the company would operate in accordance with certain moral, ethical, and, last but not least, legally determine how you can trust him today to control 11 billion valuable assets? The fact that this company was not all right and that it was essentially a bypass company that financed a political party was also pointed out by your President, Dr. Miro Cerar. Lawyers are very trusting in him, too, Dr. Pirnat. But this time it's not a problem. I'm guessing it's not just because he's the director of one company whose owner sits in Forum 21? Not so far, my dears! We're talking about state property. One more thing. It is not right to listen by the coalition that the opposition is always opposed to something that our opinions are different. Thank God. I hope that at least when we all had to talk the same way, we've been through it. For so long, we have all been somehow in this democratic spirit together. I can't support these names, and we absolutely can't support them in the Slovenian Democratic Party. I'm surprised this follows your ethical and moral decisions. We are talking about people who have broken laws that through bypass companies have been financed by political parties. That's no problem for you. It's too bad and sad, but especially very bad for our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u29	Dr. Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u30	President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Please limit and alert debaters who do not stick to the agenda item. I also call on you to provide Mrs Bah Žibert with evidence of the lies she has told us. I also strongly reject and ask that you prevent this type of involvement of the wrong designation, because we have never taken a mandate from anyone in this National Assembly. Please remind them to stop doing this. At each agenda item, they involve something that does not exist. Of course, I am also asking you to ask them to provide evidence for their claims made as evidence. If anyone is, of course, SDS is not prepared to accept responsibility for their actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u31	I have to complete one part of the story. The fact is, there's something else I need to point out. I must point out that, in view of the previous decision, we have been able to go to the point that one can only apply to the word once, and this is limited to 5 minutes, more time has been given than it would have been in the event of a pre-notification of the time. You know that and you don't have to abuse it. It is, of course, a condition for all members of the individual parliamentary group to register, but more time is available for discussion than it would have been provided for in previous restrictions and in advance notices of time. I'm going to try to hold on or we're going to try to really talk about the subject, but I can't and I'm not going to call for evidence right now because this case would actually go too far. But I will ask that the matter be limited to the five people we love today and to the reasons why someone is for and against, but not to the circumstances, I don't know what, but to these five people. It's five people and it's 11 billion assets. It is simply a nominal assessment of what management is and what responsibility we impose on these people, so it is also a hot decision. It is never the best time for such a debate and it is the policy or national assembly to carry it out according to Slovenian legislation. Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u32	Thank you. All those who accompany this meeting are respected! I'll vote against it. Already investigative journalists have warned us that there are indications of corruption in a broader sense. We know that we have been alerted to such facts several times in this National Assembly, and the suspicions have been confirmed. That's why I think it's premature to decide this matter. What's the problem? The problem is that there is a conflict of interest in the procedures themselves. The problem is the intransparency of the candidates themselves, according to the evidence themselves about their previous operation, their careers and the fulfilment of conditions, and all of this creates an impression of bias, which is not a good passenger if we are talking about the sum you just mentioned. In view of the above, I think it is premature for us to decide on the matter itself, as well as the answers we have received from the Mandate-Electorial Commission and today, they have not convinced me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u33	The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, chairman. A respected choir! I should almost say, like the predecessor said, and shut up. But I'm still gonna take the beauty of time. Yesterday I was present at the farewell reception of the Finnish Ambassador leaving Slovenia because the Finnish will close the embassy. I'll get to the point, buddy, real quick. The ambassador said in his farewell speech that there are many similarities between them and us, but some important difference is that the Finns love their country and look positively at it. I can hardly talk about the role of the coalition and the opposition in Parliament anymore. The fact is, it's been Monday for a year since we were elected. The fact is, a good year ago, we heard about a new policy, about ethics and about morality. A little more, and if anyone calls me ethics and needs to, I'm gonna beat him up, and I don't know if I can hold back because we hear so much. The fact is, we have a list of five people here. The predecessors warned me of a whole range of strange ways to choose, to put it mildly. The fact is, if the coalition were so involved in managing these 11 billion, it wouldn't wait and run for that long, if I put it that way. The fact is that, in particular, Mr Cerar, when he spoke of a new policy, said that there would be no choice after a client key. You know very well that the choice of these five people is made by a client key, and I personally don't care what forum someone is in or not in. In short, as Bojan has already said, the processivity of this whole process shows that there has not been a break with some old policies. It's obvious to come to an executive power or a coalition of some kind that takes people somewhere. The fact is, after all, we do not have enough clear, sufficiently transparent, sufficiently in-depth CVs or CVs of these five people to be able to make decisions on this basis. The fact is that in some of them, despite the short-term or, if you want, even the partially disguised CV, it will be very obvious that they are in some conflict of interest. This has been pointed out many times in the public, we are talking about some amount that is somewhere like Moldova's annual GDP, 11 billion, and if we were to think very seriously, we would really like to find a good supervisory council that needs to be qualified, important and so on, and so on, you would do it differently than you did. I am also disturbed by these logical operations, which we too often hear in this national assembly. The opposition spits at some people before we gave them a chance to do anything. It's like someone said someone was spitting on Franco Duck before you gave him the chance to drive Formula One. I'm not for driving Formula One. Finally, I must tell my colleague Logar that in some SDS exposition, it was very exposed that someone was a sociologist. After all, I am a space sociologist, and my colleague Logar is, I know, the economists and economists have run this Slovenia, not the sociologists. Maybe it wouldn't be wise if someone from my branch was in this control council of the Slovenian State Holding. Perhaps it would not be wrong to have one of the pensioners, after all, 36% of the Slovenian elective body is retired. It would definitely be necessary for someone inside, such as one rare sentence that was good in that 11 billion management strategy, to create many generations. But apparently in an ideological intersection, which today is very well defined by the leader of the SMC Group, a little conservativeism, a little liberalism, there is no room for people in the control world and there is no room for those who have created these 11 billion. That is why, of course, me and the United Left cannot possibly vote in favour. I would almost suggest the suspension of the sitting – then I will give it a procedural one – to reconsider and to withdraw this item from the agenda. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u35	Before I give the floor forward, I would warn my colleague that there was a threat in there. In this national assembly, we will not beat anyone and under no circumstances. Please let this discourse take this into account. Although metaphorically expressed, it can also be meant literally, and this needs to be very careful. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u36	Thank you very much. In view of all the procedural proposals I would like to make, President, only my wish here that we are in a democratic country, that we have freedom of speech and that we can speak freely in this House. For this reason, I think that limiting everyone and everyone at any time is not good, because, after all, we must express ourselves culturally and in a way that we are not offensive, and I do not think that this is enough. Second, it does not say that we should not express ourselves emotionally or that we should not use certain jokes. Here is the evaluation of each individual speaker, politely put, sometimes inappropriate. Here, once again, we have freedom of speech and I will speak in this context. This is a Slovenian state holding company. It was said how many billions were actually transferred to this Slovenian State Holding and, inter alia, that the OECD guidelines were applied to corporate governance. I think that it is precisely in this process of determining supervisors that these guidelines have not been applied, especially if there are doubts that the legal conditions are not met, that there is a conflict of interest in certain persons who have been reported, and that it is indeed that we do not have adequate explanations by the Government or by ministers. This is definitely one of the things. There is doubt, very reasonable doubt, including what has been warned or what is the position of the SMC, that this should break the cord, that political elites are no longer fed from state-owned enterprises. I do not think this proposal guarantees this. If we actually go to read all the CVs, if we read all the opinions, or if we take into account what has not been said, then I don't think that's actually going to happen and that the path that goes on here will continue. But I don't think that's the main problem, and that's not the main problem for me. For me, the main problem is trust, trust of Members and Members from the opposition to Members and Members from the coalition. Whether personal matters will be decided correctly, legally, and in accordance with the Constitution. And Dr Horvat, when we decided on the termination of the mandate of Mr Janez Janša – we have decided on this – your decisions have proved to be unconstitutional. How can we trust that today’s decision will not prove to be a marriage dispute or that it will not prove to be incorrect and ineffective? And finally, when we're talking about some culture, ethics, morality, and so on and so forth, and not least of all collegiality, there was no response to this in the sense that someone was sorry that you decided against the Constitution. And here for the Slovenes and the Slovenes, no matter what they may wish to do differently, there is no guarantee that you will not decide again illegally, unlawfully, I will not say against the Constitution again, because this is probably not the subject of the Constitution. Here's the fundamental problem, Mr Horvat, if that's what we're talking about. Once again, you have decided on the termination of the mandate of one of them, I do not know whether he is your colleague or not, but one of the members of the National Assembly, where the President of the National Assembly, who should be concerned about the integrity of the National Assembly, for the reputation of the National Assembly, has said nothing about it. I don't understand how you can expect us to trust you in [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u37	Anybody else want to discuss this? Please sign up. The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u38	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues! I personally will not support this oversight council today. I won't support him for any more reasons. One of the key reasons, however, is that the opposition in this supervisory council does not have its own representative. The fact is that in 2012 the government of Janez Janša proposed a law on the Slovenian State Holding in which the opposition had been appointed by the Commission to oversee the public finances of its representative. It should be said that, at that time, the Positive Slovenia submitted referendum signatures and that the then first lady of the opposition proposed to withdraw the referendum signatures, provided that the opposition receives three representatives in the supervisory council. The first lady of the opposition soon became the Prime Minister of the Government and went to amend the Slovenian State Holding Act, actually devoured all those words she had spoken in the opposition, and amended the Slovenian State Holding Act by throwing out that opposition representative from the Supervisory Council. Dearly respected, I am convinced that the state property is not owned by the Government, but owned by all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and that the opposition should have a representative in this supervisory council. Notwithstanding the fact that some of you have argued that the President of the Commission for the supervision of public finances has the opportunity to be present at these meetings, it should be said that the President of the Commission for the supervision of public finances does not have the right to vote. And in view of all the promises made by the modern centre's party before and after the elections, I expected an amendment to the Slovenian State Holding Act in this direction so that the opposition would have at least one representative in the supervisory council. I'm afraid that didn't happen. I also regret that the coalition did not vote on the decision proposed by the Mandate-Election Commission, namely to verify that the Law-Legal Service meets the conditions set out in the Slovenian State Holding Act. I don't know what the coalition is afraid of or what the coalition is afraid of, but I am sure that it will be a significantly greater embarrassment for the coalition, but especially for the client of the Modern Centre, if it is subsequently found that one of the five members of the Supervisory Council does not meet all the conditions or that it is in conflict of interest. It seems unhygienic to me that in the supervisory board of the Slovenian State Holding Board there will be a supervisor, who is the president of one of the subsidiaries of Nova Ljubljanska banka, d.d., although some say that it is not legally disputed that NLB Vita, a life insurance company d.d., has 50 % of the ownership, the private owner does not belong to a subsidiary or subsidiary. I think it's more than a legal term here, but above all, it's a hygiene issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u39	Before I give the floor, I should like to point out that the National Assembly has its own Legislative and Legal Service, which gives an opinion on the compatibility of the proposals of law, other acts, the amendment with the Constitution and the legal system and on the legislative and technical aspects of the proposals, not on the question of whether candidates meet the conditions laid down by law. Why is that? Because in this case it is a real question and not a legal question. The Legal and Legal Service answers legal questions. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. When we talk today about who will take over the tasks of the supervisory board of the Slovenian State Holding which will manage 11 billion assets of the Republic of Slovenia, however, I would only briefly point out that I have always opposed this asset being put into the management of an economic society. And if we already have this economic society, then it would be absolutely necessary for all those sitting in the administration or supervisory council to present themselves to the National Assembly, to make a presentation on the work bodies for each area, because these people have more power than ministers and have more power than the Government. They also have more power than Parliament, because when Parliament decided to adopt a Capital Investment Management Strategy, which is only a political will, it actually lost its control mechanism of over 11 billion. But the only one who has a responsibility, what happens to these 11 billion, is who we are elected. Only Members and Members of the National Assembly are directly accountable to the people. A member of the Government can be appointed without going through the election procedure, a member of the Supervisory Board of the holding company does not need any procedures to take responsibility for the people. But today, when we are here, we must also be aware that whoever is appointed to this system, I find it difficult to believe that it could cover the areas of energy, transport, telecommunications, insurance, banking, logistics, automotive industry, tourism. All of these are so powerful and wide that they cannot be controlled by these few individuals. That's how the system is wrong in itself. If we are talking about policy withdrawing from governance because it is an economic company, then I strongly criticize the statement made by the Prime Minister of the Government, which requires future supervisors to sell Telekom. It's the same for the Minister of Finance. As a politician, I will also say at this moment that I am asking these representatives, who today can be put in this place by the National Assembly, not to sell Telekom, not to sell the property, not only sell it, we have even donated it over the last period. I would stress once again what I have been trying to point out briefly also in the management strategy of 11 billion to facilitate the work of supervisors. In fact, the National Assembly does not have any mechanism over the event in the Slovenian State Holding, and this is the greatest weakness. Who in Slovenia can decide to prevent, say, the donation of the New Bank of Maribor and the Postal Bank to a foreign owner as it happened? Which no one has leverage to prevent. Nor does the new strategy prevent this and also this composition of the Supervisory Council, which will, but only be a follow-up to the sale of assets, will be management, and that is the greatest weakness. The public financial aspect, which would bind all those to be appointed to the Supervisory Board, is not covered by the strategy. They have completely free hands. The spectrum of management of these assets, as I said in the introduction, is extremely broad, so it is expected that all these important areas will be controlled by all these people. Thus, we have set the system wrong at the very beginning, and this cannot be fixed either by this name or by another name, but indeed the management system needs to be changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u41	The word has magic. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u42	Thank you, President. I agree with Mr Webra's conclusion that the granting of powers to these five persons from the point of view of State property management is somehow irresponsible. But the whole process of naming these five names is irresponsible. Today we are talking about 11 billion assets, but there is no minister. So we're talking about a key issue here. The questions raised by individuals weigh thousands of times less, and there are three public opinions about them, but there is much talk when it comes to that gross issue, namely, the issue of further management of state property, and there is no minister and the coalition is fasting. The mandate-voluntary issue, as you have noticed, was put before the other topics at this meeting, usually decided at the end. Why? Apparently, someone's in a hurry to get a new job in charge. Comrade Shirtzelj highlighted a very important fact. Trust in the institutions of the rule of law and also in the government has collapsed or with every act of land. Also by this appointment, this trust is added to the land, and the coalition, or the largest government party, namely the SMC, says they believe and trust the choice. So, you put 11 billion in someone's hands and you say, we believe and we trust you to do good. What if I don't? There's gonna be a new client. And what's she gonna get? Extra votes, you won't answer. Let me remind you once again of the words of colleague Dobovška, who, at last, brought you a good part of your 36 Members in the elections. He said, narrowed down to three points, suspicion of conflict of interest, suspicion of transparency and suspicion of bias. And you hurry up with that appointment. After writing to the media, three names do not meet the legal requirements. The Minister, who is not here, told us before he left for the MVK, I assure you that's not true. And that's it. With 11 billion assets. During these appointments, for example, she will be the supervisor of the 11 billion who had just passed the supervisor’s exam. I don't know, maybe it's just a case, but someone might have tipped her off. Isn't there a suspicion of opacity, corruption and so forth? Then we have a member of the Forum 21 Management Board, whose CEO is now on this list of five names. But what's the funniest thing or the tragic thing about this story? This same company or its head office was transferred from Slovenia to the tax haven in Cyprus in September 2014. Now the director of the company from the tax oasis will manage 11 billion Slovenian assets, and the coalition says: We believe and trust. The minister himself said that he was actually choosing. He appointed an electoral commission composed primarily of two members or one member of Forum 21 – that is, we know which direction the mental essence of these types of personnel is going – and we now expect that this selection of five names will not be from a mile away Forum 21. Who would believe such an explanation? My colleague, Bah, pointed out one example of Duško Kosa. He was on the management board of the Kalander Society, which was a circular institution with which British laboratories financed – at least so wrote the media – the education of candidates of the United List of Social Democrats to perform in the elections. He was on the board of directors and, as we read, he was a financier of the United List of Social Democrats. I can quote you where it says, "regulating the client's finances years ago." At that time, they were regulated by a financial crisis and had to be solved in some other way. Miro Cerar said that this could be a violation of the law. If the Minister of Finance had made this clear at the first session that they had also seen it, I would have said in some way that they were at least fair. They're on the client line, but at least they're honest. No, he said there was no problem, and this board of directors in Kalandro's society is not misled in his CV. Therefore, there are a number of reasons why we should hold an in-depth debate, not rush and choose such personnel as at least two-thirds of this House, if not all. Then there wouldn't be any problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u43	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. What a day ago was the debate on Greece on one of the Committees of the National Assembly. There was the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance. And it went from Slovenia's point of view to, say, a smaller problem. Today, we are talking about the dimension of the project, which is one-third of the state budget, and neither the President of the Government nor the Minister of Finance nor any of the ministers. We are talking about the weight of the project, which is 30% higher than the annual state budget. This tells us all that our warnings regarding respect for the principles of the rule of law, the principles of transparency and ethical criteria on the Mandate-Election Commission have been more than justifiable. There is no one who, on the government side who has proposed this appointment, has opposed his views against what we say or explained them, which I find to be totally unacceptable from the point of view of the coalition and from the point of view of the government. The Commission's Anti-Corruption Senate, led by Mr Klemenčič, defined or defined the definition of systemic corruption in its 2010 annual report. This introductory part, on page 2 or 3, stated that the problem is how this systemic corruption is formed and emerging. What happened with this case of the establishment of a commission for the selection of supervisors, and also with the selection of supervisors themselves, is more than a hundred percent consistent with this definition of systemic corruption. I am surprised that Mr Goran Klemenčič, who is now no longer President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, has not noticed this in the Government. All that we Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party have talked about on the Mandate-Electorial Commission is the direct definition of systemic corruption, where positional, functional and political circumstances are deliberately exploited, in order to set up commissions and select candidates to achieve the objectives of certain political groups and enable them to raise funds for these political groups. Read the Commission's 2010 Annual Report on anti-corruption, page 2, first column below. This is an online example of the definition of systemic corruption. It is no wonder, therefore, that there is neither the President of the Government nor the Minister of Finance nor Justice Goran Klemenčič, who wrote this definition in his annual report. That's impossible to ignore. What you will vote today is impossible to defend in terms of the rule of law, ethics and transparency. Although the Minister of Finance at the Mandate-Election Commission said that they had done a integrity test, this integrity test, opposed to the coalition majority, the Government would not and would not present it to the National Assembly, nor to the Mandate- voluntary Commission, which would have this as a basis for decision-making. If this is done, I do not understand why the coalition majority, the government majority, defends the acquisition of this document. Colleagues, as well as ourselves, have pointed to a series of shortcomings, a series of conflicts of interest. In this formation, there were two members of this assembly committee who were, in one way or another, directly or indirectly linked to the Bled Business School and the representative of the Ministry of Finance, i.e. the Minister’s representative. And these three people have chosen individuals who are associated with a recognizable group that only brings together a grand capital in this country. There are no little people in there. None of the little people are in this Forum 21. Just big capital representatives. And these Forum 21 representatives are now in control of the largest Slovenian-printed media house, having the main creator of public opinion, Mr Toš, one is Mr Petrič, and therefore it is no wonder that in the public space these untransparent procedures, the unethical principles that have been applied in this regard, do not speak or write. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u45	Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision that makes the members of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding d.d. They are named: Damjan Belic, Drago Ferfolja, Lidia Glavina, Duško Kos and Barbara Smolnikar. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present. The vote was 45 to 23. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, this is a second-hand proposal for a law amending the law on the enforcement of public funds rights in the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by Mr Luka Mesec and Mr Mag. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposers, Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. In the United Left and in the Alliance of Alenka Bratusek, we are proposing a very simple measure, which is that the price for children's lunches in primary schools would rise from the current 18% of the average income or 180 euros per month per family member to 36% of the average monthly net income, that is 360 euros per month per family member. The situation in Slovenia is currently such that we have over 55,000 children below the poverty threshold, while the price for free lunches in primary schools is so low that only about 16,000 children are entitled to free lunch. In fact, only children living in families with less than 180 euros of monthly income per family member can come to lunch after the current censorship, which is essential below the poverty threshold. If censorship were raised in the way we suggest, however, we would approach the threshold of poverty, so almost all children living below the poverty threshold would have access to free lunch, although the poverty threshold would not have been reached. This censorship we are proposing would mean, for a family of three, for example, that each parent can earn €540 a month, that children are still entitled to a free lunch. The measure ahead of us is necessary from a completely civilized point of view, because in the 21st century we really cannot afford to have children hungry in schools, and the problem with the current censorship is really great. There are different mechanisms throughout Slovenia to try to mitigate the situation. For example, in the municipality of Maribor in 2012, due to the low censorship, they accepted that they would cover themselves and provide additional funds to enable children to access free lunches up to 36% of the net average wage, as we suggest. Civil society is organised throughout Slovenia, such as Petka for smiles, which has also turned to us and highlighted this issue. This society collects money from different schools for those children whose parents cannot pay for lunch. Other schools organise themselves and try to organise some solidarity funds for these children, but all of this is non-systematic, and children are left to the mercy and mercy of volunteerism, volunteerism and some non-systemic measures of schools and municipalities in which they live. The situation in Slovenia is therefore quite different. We therefore propose a simple systemic measure to raise the price. The measure would cost a year, according to the Ministry's calculations of around 15.5 million a year and with this 15.5 million a year would provide all children living below the poverty threshold with free lunch. In the United Left, NSI and ZaAB, two amendments were tabled for today's hearing. With the first amendment, the law would enter into force 1. 9. 2015 and not just 1. 1. 2016, as is the case in the draft law. This seems crucial to us because we would like to provide free lunch for children before the start of the new school year. This measure would cost around €6 million for this year's budget, but given that we have a reserve in the budget, that economic growth is higher than expected and so on, we do not think that it would be a problem to provide these additional resources, which are not actually large in terms of the budget. The second amendment we are proposing, however, destroys yesterday's amendment of the coalition, which proposed that only for the first income class would it be said that those who already receive free lunches would receive 100 % of the subsidy, while for the second income class it would be a 70 % subsidy and for the third only 40 %. This means that, after this proposal, for example, a single mother who lives 361 euros a month and has to spend her child, she should pay for lunch, which we think is unsustainable, because we are talking about really the poorest families and children. Therefore, we propose to cover 100 % of the subsidy for all classes. In the previous reading, we have encountered consensual support, and we hope that this time will be the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u47	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Uroš Pikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u48	Thank you very much, President. Dear Members, honourable Members, representatives of the government! At its 15th emergency meeting yesterday, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities considered the draft law amending the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds submitted by the Group of Members and Members to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption by the first-signed Luka Mesec. On the basis of the requirement to hold a general debate on the draft law, the National Assembly also held this debate at its 9th regular session and adopted a conclusion that the proposal for a law amending the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds is appropriate for further consideration. A group of Members and Members, i.e. the first-signed Luka Mesec, and representatives of the Government and civil society movements, participated in the work of the Committee. The Legislative and Legal Service has also dealt with this provision within its competence and has found that it has no comments on it. In its opinion, the government pointed out that the current regime was not adequate and that modifications were needed and stressed that accessibility to school meals was necessary regardless of the social situation of an individual or an individual. The Commission of the Council of State for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons also addressed the said regulation and adopted a position to support it. The representative presented to himself the key objectives of the bill based on the principle of social justice, by allowing access to a free subsidised lunch for a larger group of students from families in such an economic social situation that prevents them from covering the costs of school meals. The bill pursues one single objective, namely to increase the price of free lunch for pupils from 18% of the net average wage in RS to 36%. The current provision in force of the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds binds the right to a subsidised lunch to the first income class in children's allowance, up to 18 % of the net average wage per household member. The award for entitlement to a subsidised primary school lunch in the first income class is set at around €180 per family head income per month. For a three-member family, this means that the ceiling on the income of the whole family is set at about €540, i.e. around €270 per parent. In the proposal's view, the lift will still cover primary schoolchildren living below the poverty threshold, and an additional 32 000 beneficiaries would be entitled to a subsidised lunch in addition to the current 18,000 beneficiaries. He invited the members and members of the Committee to support the draft law with the proposed amendment, i.e. with the entry into force of the 1st Amendment. 9. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. After discussing and deciding on the proposed amendments, we have concluded or decided that the second class will be subsidised at 70% and the third class at 40%. There was also a debate on Article 2 and the two amendments tabled. The amendment of the coalition groups was also subsequently withdrawn, and the amendment of the United Left Group as the proponent and other members of the Group was not voted on. Thus, in accordance with the report of the Committee received, the date of validity of that Regulation 1. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended law, which includes the adoption of the amendment, is prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is also an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u49	I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u50	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is aware that the provision of circumstances affecting the well-being of schoolchildren is important for achieving the objectives of education and education. There is certainly a proper diet for children. It therefore supports all efforts to ensure a healthy school diet for as many children as possible, especially children from socially disadvantaged families. Educational and educational institutions are those environments where it is possible, through appropriate professional and systemic measures, to have an important impact on the eating habits and health of the entire population of children and adolescents. The accessibility of school meals must also be ensured regardless of the social situation, also in order to ensure that the educational process is carried out in a qualitative manner. Article 25 of the current ZUPJS, which defines the right to grant a meal, provides that those pupils who are regularly educated are registered for lunch and that the average monthly income per person found in the Children’s Supplement Decision does not exceed 53% of the net average wage in the Republic of Slovenia. The subsidy is at the price of lunch. Article 26 of the ZUPJS provides, however, that a grant of lunch belongs to pupils who are regularly enrolled in school and are registered for lunch and where the average monthly income per person found in the Children’s Supplement Decision does not exceed 18 % of the net average wage in the Republic of Slovenia. It also provides, inter alia, that the operator shall take into account, on the basis of data on the average monthly income per person found in the Children's Supplement Decision, the amount of the subsidy referred to in the preceding paragraph when paying for lunch. Nevertheless, students who are placed in a foster family have, of course, the right to a free lunch on the basis of the decision to place the child. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia agrees with the proposaler's conclusion that the current arrangement, when only students who do not pay the net average wage of a family member for free lunch are entitled to a free lunch, is not appropriate. However, let me explain that the country's concern for the situation of families and especially children is wider, about EUR 300 million per year is earmarked for various child allowances or scholarships. Other rights under parental protection are also guaranteed, e.g. reduced kindergarten payments, exemption from social security services, rental subsidies, coverage of the difference to the full value of health services and so on. Of course, all these measures try to support families and children. Subsidy and subsidisation of school nutrition is one of the important measures within those measures. Free lunch is now available for students up to and including the fourth income class, reduced lunch payment for all those who reach the income of €643 per family member. In order to ensure the quality of living of children in school and, of course, the educational process, the achievement of the relevant learning objectives and of course the quality of living themselves, in view of the already explained Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports the expansion of the range of beneficiaries as derived from the amended Law amending the Law on the exercise of rights from public resources of 16 July. Seven. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u51	Since the assembly held a general debate on the proposal for a law at its 9th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on two articles and two amendments. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the Amendment of the Group of Ambassadors the United Left and the Group of Ambassadors the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek. Anybody want to talk? Please sign up. The word is Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia states that Slovenia is a social state, but it has become a solidarity state. The poor person helps the poor and we therefore feel that these things need to be resolved systematically. Our first amendment has been tabled with one goal to increase the free lunch price for students from 18% of the net average wage to 36%. How could the Municipality of Maribor, which is faced with so much unemployment and with so much social distress, have already arranged this and the state cannot manage it on a systemic level? We cannot agree in any way that the second and third income classes would have 70 and 40 % of the subsidy. If a single mother has 361 euros a month - I don't know if you can imagine what it's like to live with 361 euros a month and have a child who needs to be trained to pay bills and school supplies - where should she get 30% of what she's going to pay? She's going back to charities. 55,000 children are below the poverty threshold and our proposal follows that all children living below the poverty threshold be classified as 100% food subsidies. We believe that this solution is thorough, complete and good, and that all fragmentation will not produce fruit. When we talked about debt cancellation, you went towards our amendment just by arguing that then the social workers would be overloaded because they would have to recalculate. These censorship solutions proposed by the Government are socially less fair and administratively more difficult, as social workers will have to deal instead with social work, censoring and counting, who has the right to 70 % and who has the right to 40 %. In fact, all of this energy and all the personnel could be directed to the personnel in schools where they could prepare meals and share them. In short, it's not in the staff either, but it's in the organization of certain schools. We well know that some schools are better organised, have higher capacities, some even market meals because they produce more. With good systemic arrangements, we could feed all children living below the poverty line. This would by no means be a great expense to the state, but of course it would be a huge cost to people who are struggling to survive today. The country always boasts that we now have a record GDP growth. I would like to point out that these GDPs have been made by good, working people with denial. The best way is for at least a part of this victim to come back to them, so that they feed their children, because you know that the young world is standing, and if the children are socially excluded and hungry, we are not really going to achieve some kind of patriotism that we like to talk about so much, and we are not going to sing It's nice in our country to be young. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u53	Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! Why is this change even taking place? The simple reason is – and of course all of us must admit – that the existing system is not good. The existing system is not good and modifications are needed. It is true that a country with many, many measures in the area of paying child allowances, in the area of paying grants, in the area of subsidies, and so on, will ensure that in some way they alleviate social distress, but we find - I think in full - that there is also a need to step forward in the area of student nutrition. Believe me, it would be hard to find a man who would be more pleased with me if we managed both in the second, third and even higher classes to provide free school meals. It must never and never happen to any student for such or other reason to remain hungry at school. If that happens, it's a defeat, it's the death of a social state. And we're not gonna let that happen. I am not most pleased with this consensus, with this compromise, but in a given situation, taking into account the situation taking into account the capabilities, I believe that this is a compromise that allows for at least an optimum position, if not an excellent position for children who go to school. However, I expect those responsible, from the Government, that in this transitional period, for which I am very glad that we have managed to move at least the start of implementation to 1.1. and that there is no 1.3. as was the initial proposal of the amendment of the coalition, we have done a great deal. What do you mean, "a lot of things"? In any case, determine the methodology for the calculation of school meals. It can't be happening, at least it's unacceptable for me that a meal at one school, I don't want to be rude now, costs several times more or significantly more in Ljubljana than in Maribor or any other part of Slovenia. Secondly, all possible logistical, administrative and other problems, which are the reason why we cannot move so quickly into implementation, will need to be addressed or addressed. I'd like to start modifying this law tomorrow, as I say, it's not going to happen right away. On the committee itself, we have heard from the representatives of the principals the assurance that it is not happening and that the children in the school are not hungry. Sometimes I doubt this kind of thinking, but I don't want to be malicious, and I don't want to be pessimistic about it, but it's those measures that we're taking now that eliminate the potential danger that children are hungry in school. If it turns out with the implementation of the law itself, that what we have done is too little - I believe that it will not, but if it would - I think it is up to us to approach the amendment of the law without delay, as was the practice or the case now. It must not be, and I believe, that in this government, where Desus is present, there will be no dilemma, either butter or cannons, as was the case on the committee. Of course, butter, because cannons when someone's hungry, we don't need it because I don't know who to shoot. If I somehow take my mind off it, maybe that's the thought. Some talk about fire policy, talk about waving holes in some way, correcting problems from the past, not going to some consistent systemic policy. I don't think it's a fire policy here. I think there's a systemic measure here. We can talk about whether it's large enough or high enough to pay and per cent of the subsidy, but I think it's a systemic solution that allows a pretty good share of students or their parents to have subsidised school meals. On conclusion, if I may, of course, I would like to express my joy that, at least in the coalition circles, we have managed to reach a relatively high consensus or general consensus. I believe that we will also convince at least a fraction of the opposition, because it is in the interest that children will not be hungry and that there will be no more priority concerns about how to secure a meal, but will be the priority concern of the school system how to give children as much knowledge as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u55	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Jan Škoberne has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We would like the debate on such a proposal not to be necessary, so that the economic crisis does not occur and that today we can discuss more how to ensure higher standards, how to achieve that there is also breakfast in schools, how to achieve the highest possible standards of conditions so that education, training and education can create equal opportunities for development for all who are involved in the process. However, the situation in which Slovenia – not just Slovenia, many European countries – is such that we are facing financial deficits, economic growth declines, in short, with one global situation, which, due to the decisive measures of this and, frankly, needs to be said, is being corrected by previous governments. Therefore, this measure also needs to be assessed in the broader context of the measures involved. At the same time, it must first be understood that the most important and important social policy measure is the provision of new jobs, the high quality of value-added creation. The measures taken by this government, the ministries of work and other ministries, which of course participated, have produced these results in this key area. In Slovenia, unemployment is declining, it is not a single reduction, it is a trend where we can clearly understand that since last year it has been 5.5% or 5.4% lower unemployment or higher employment rates. Of course, it's not the only action. We will also talk about a one-time write-off that once again adds to the burden of the population. Here again we are talking about a ministry measure which is responsible for equal opportunities. In the fall, I hope, we will also talk about the question of redefining the minimum wage, we will talk about a new two-year budget that we will be able to draw up on the basis of positive trends. That is why this measure, which builds on the already existing solidarity scheme in Slovenia, for which we devote 24% of gross domestic product and makes us one of the most egalitarian societies in the world, is one that is important and, of course, needs to be given an element of social justice. If possible, of course we would provide 100% to everyone. Since this is not yet possible – I believe that at the moment when it will happen – the government has logically decided to find a way to ensure that the largest number of children are provided with adequate social standards and to prevent them from being hungry. However, not only those who are the weakest by existing definitions, but also those whose parents are better at statistical calculations, but still not well enough to avoid intervention. This measure should also be included in the set of all the measures taken by the Government. When we look at an integrated picture of these measures, we see that social standards are significantly improving when indicators are prepared and calculated for 2014 and 2015, because in most cases we are now talking about poverty risk rates from 2012, 2013, when poverty was the worst when we had the highest unemployment rate when economic growth was the biggest. They are thus showing a picture that is no longer entirely real at this time, because the Government, with appropriate measures, has ensured this, I repeat, which is most important – the rise in employment, the reduction of unemployment, the single write-off of debts and, of course, this measure, which ensures that the weakest will not be left behind in Slovenia, will not remain alone. Therefore, the Social Democrats will support this proposal and the other proposals, which will follow and co-ordinate all aspects of ensuring equal opportunities in Slovenia. Since it is not only a question of children, it is also a question of older people, the question of the latter generation, which has so far not covered active employment policy measures, is jobless, and their children are the weakest. In short, if we do not solve all the problems, I will agree with my colleague Pikl, the firefighting measures will not be enough. I think it is right that we also thank here for the extraordinary sacrifice and work of teachers, teachers, principals and principals, who, of whom we expect extremely much, are doing exceptional work, but are often rewarded with finding that they have too low a job obligation and too high a salary. But even when such situations arise, I can appreciate it if we honestly say that they are doing an extraordinary job and that this country should be grateful for it. As we have already said, we will support the measures. We also welcome the extremely good practice of cross-cutting cooperation, where people's interests are placed at the first point and where we can finally see that in Slovenia too there are no longer questions of my type, your portfolio, but action, people and effect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u57	Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u58	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! However, when we talk about the fees for the subsidy of lunch for students, it is important to point out that, at the moment, this is primarily the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, because even when we look at the Government's position on this law, it points out that the budgets for 2016 and 2017 have not yet been adopted, and the fact is that we have already found in the budgets of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport that this does not provide funds for all statutory tasks. On this occasion, I would also like to point out once again, because there is a great deal of consensus in the National Assembly that this censorship will increase and thus increase the need for funds from the budget, not burden the additional ministry which is responsible for the educational process, but that the Ministry of Finance and, of course, within the entire cut, allocates to this Ministry the additional resources that this law will define. At this point, I do not have any information as to what the cut is at present, but I fear that the Ministry of Finance is too willing to assume this obligation only by the Ministry of Education, and that this measure will then go into account, we can say, the quality of education itself, which is unacceptable for Slovenia, because our potential for further development is also in fact in the quality and accessibility of education. I hope that in this process of adopting the budget we will be able to achieve that the Ministry of Finance will provide the additional funds that this law will lay down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u59	Thank you. The word is Violeta Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. And I would ask the Minister to give me professional reasons from where the idea of a progressive ladder for second and third grade is based. A progressive scale would be logical for those above the poverty threshold. Does that seem fair to you? I mean, you need to know what you're doing, because this law is you - I mean, you - you proposed and you accepted it. In fact, we all agree here, as do you of the coalition, that it is necessary to feed the children. We've got a lot of words. Children are full of words, their parents are tired of talking to politicians and those who have much to say, and ultimately the result is what it is. I want to know exactly how a single child with 361 euros a month gets to lunch. What kind of plan did you make, given that you've obviously thought a lot about it, because this scale is "stupid"? Tell me in particular how this child can be. Are you going to transfer to humanitarian organizations that I really would like to ask them to strike today? For Val 202 with Bottery, Friday with a smile, the City of Words, and you could even list doing your work. I've been called as an actress a number of times to perform as a humanitarian. Countless times. Once for dialysis, once for kidney transplant, once for children with Down syndrome, not to mention. You always get in the middle of something. You know exactly how you can't deny help to the needy, but on the other hand, it's perfectly clear that you're giving silence to the government. Government boasting about how well we are doing, how economic growth is growing, and those on whose shoulders and blisters there is economic growth, obviously have no rights. We talk here, we decide. Did we make this GDP? We are not, respectfully, accountable to our citizens and are most responsible to children because they cannot stand up for themselves because they cannot speak here in Parliament, even though they have a children's parliament once a year, but we have not yet. I would also like the Government to say how it will make these children less under the poverty threshold than it has planned. Mr Pecan, of course, said that he was 150% of the non-payments. How are you going to handle this, then? If a man doesn't have money and wants his child to be, what do we do? Are we going to cover the unpaid bills with charities again, or are we going to go back to the debt write-off we've already proposed? In short, Mr Pecan also stressed that no children in school are hungry. What does that mean? That good people at school through the side door somehow feed these kids. That means they have enough lunch, enough capacity, enough food, only things aren't systematically solved. So are we going to solve problems systematically, or are we going to let what we're here for solve NGOs? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u61	Thank you. Minister Maja Makovec Brenčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u62	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that this is an interdepartmental [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u63	Minister, if you'll just stand up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u64	Sure. Given that this is an interdepartmental project and interdepartmental coordination, which has already been highlighted, and given that the Law of the Law amending the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds actually relates to the Ministry of Labour, we have joined together in the preparation of the scales. Since we also have a secretary of state with us, who has dealt with this in particular professionally, I would now like to propose to her a word regarding the interpretation of the scales or the definition of rates of 70% and 40% for the second and third income classes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u65	Thank you. Martina Vuk, State Secretary, Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Messengers and Members! Our goal is not to give words to children and tell them words, children get words through the educational process, that is the purpose of the school to take some of them away to learn something. Of course, nutrition is an important component of the whole day or all the time that children spend in school. For this reason, we are aware that free lunch, which is now available to all primary school students up to and including the fifth grade of the children's allowance, is not enough that this is the only meal that students have at their disposal, especially those who do not apply for lunch because parents estimate that they cannot afford it. For this reason, a free lunch was introduced for the first income class, i.e. the first class of the child supplement. We have now assessed together, all together, on this bill was also first discussed in this national assembly, where we have already said a lot of things and where we are all together, because the bill was then unanimously supported, we agreed that this scale should be changed, that more subsidies should be given to children, including a school lunch, not just a school lunch because they deserve to come to this lunch easier for parents to pay this lunch. However, when we speak today exclusively and only about lunches, it is necessary to know that the social state system, the support system for the family, children and people in general in this country is not only one, two, three individual measures, but we, as the Government, as the ministry that is particularly responsible for this area, are obliged to look at the whole. We are obliged to provide systemic measures that will address the issue of poverty, social exclusion in a comprehensive and longer time-consuming manner, allowing individual rights, services and subsidies to both families and individuals, while deciding that the effects are faster, immediate, short-term, when necessary, for, as is now a very popular designation in this National Assembly, individual fire action. Believe us, no one will ever be indifferent when they hear about hungry children when we listen to Bohrje via Val 202 and similar individual stories. And we try to capture the whole when we try to make the solutions that we can make, and that's important because we can't just promise something that we can't do. Within the scope of the options we have, we have drawn up a solution that was confirmed yesterday at a meeting of the parental committee. The scale for classification in income classes on which the child supplement is then administered is one of the scales. The income that is set here as the income of an individual or a family, since it has to be a child for a child’s allowance, is the initial income that an individual family has. These are not the final resources that this family receives, as this initial income is then looked at and measured by the amount of the child allowance. For each child, the growing scale, for the first child less, for the second child more, for the third child even more and for all others is the same as for the third child. Children’s allowances shall be calculated. In the same way, there is a scale according to the income of the family member that with higher income the height of the child supplement falls. As I say, then, for the next, for the weakest, there is also financial social assistance. Therefore, this 180, 301, 361 and so on EUR per family member’s income is not the final amount. Why am I stressing this? When we talk about the degree of risk of poverty, when we talk about such and different indicators, we still need to know some things, so that we can talk honestly, directly and so that people can imagine what that means. The level of poverty risk that we are talking about today is based on data on the income of individuals and families in 2012. We've been saying this all along, why are we doing this again? Because we are aware that in 2012 and 2013, people felt this crisis most in our country, just in those years when the highest unemployment rate has been declining, which is now declining, since the beginning of the previous year. We are not satisfied with the number of unemployed, by no means, but we are satisfied with the trend and are working to see that this trend is positive. Now that funding from the new financial perspective is available at the end of this year, there will be more active employment policy measures that can be implemented to counter the economy so that it can create new jobs and employment. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities cannot create jobs. We all know that, but we are constantly calling for jobs to be created. However, we can take individual measures against the economy, but it does. Thus, monetary social assistance is one income which is added to this minimum income, and the child allowance is another part. Various subsidies are also part of the package, how to ease the situation for individuals and families so that they can give children more. While we are talking about the degree of risk of poverty, it should be stressed that if all of our social transfers, together, would not be all subsidies, the level of risk of poverty would be twice as high. In other words, social transfers and subsidies halve the risk of poverty. It could be better, it could always be better. This is our goal to make it better every time. But within the limits of the options given, this proposal, which is now before us, is such that we can carry it out. It saddens me when we talk like we're taking something that already exists today. Today, free lunch is available to those who are included in the first income class. We are now expanding that, instead of the full price of lunch to be paid today, parents in the second income class of the children's allowance will pay 70% less. They will pay more than two-thirds of the price of lunch less, with free lunch for all these children. And also lunch is free for all children in the third income class, and now parents will pay another 40% lower price for lunch. Today they pay the full price of lunch. This is a measure that will now be adopted. As I said on the committee yesterday, no action, no law is concrete for all eternity, but changes are always possible. Our goal is absolutely that all children can have free food, as was said, from breakfast to lunch this afternoon, if that were feasible. However, when faced with restrictions, like social transfers, with substantially limited resources at your disposal, then the task of the state, the government, the ministry, if you want to go through targeted measures to achieve the greatest impact with what it has at its disposal. These measures are targeted in a way that gradually facilitates those who have little. Those with a little more — I do not claim to have enough — will contribute a fraction. Those who have a little more – I do not claim to have enough – another larger piece. In these circumstances. As soon as possible, however, we will be absolutely expanding our rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u67	Thank you. The text is by the proposer Luke Mesec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. I'll start with a general comment. A lot of the speech, not just today at the meeting of the National Assembly, but also yesterday at the meeting of the parent committee, began in terms of: we want such measures not to have to be taken, we should first of all adopt some proposals for economic growth, because economic growth will then solve all social problems in this society. Here I would like to stress, even though such words come from rather socially oriented parties, that economic growth is not a magic stick that will solve poverty in itself. It is precisely in such proposals as we have on the platter today that it is said to ask whether we will provide the hungry children with additional resources, or whether the concept of a social state is forged or formed. We can have the greatest economic growth in the world, but it does not necessarily benefit all people. We have very good examples, such as the United States, which I have recently set as an example as a country that is more successful than the European Union in facing the crisis, and today I can show them in a different light. Since the crisis in 2010, this country has had 8% more GDP than it had before the crisis, but today in the US there are still 50 million or five people living below the poverty threshold who do not even have access to basic health insurance and who are eating coupons issued by the government. This is, for example, the problem of this economic view of the social state, in the sense that we create economic growth and then people will suddenly have enough money to get it. No, economic growth alone does not bring prosperity. Economic growth can bring or grow more in the neoliberal capitalism we have, the affluence of the handful and the poverty of others. Finally, if we look at all societies across Europe, we will see that they had 30, 40 back with substantially smaller GDP than we have today, substantially broader baskets of rights, a substantial wider social state, substantially more rights for all. I'm not just talking about the former Eastern bloc, we're talking about social democracy, which, after the war, existed in Western Europe for 40 years until the neoliberal plant. Today, we all have several times more GDP than we had then, but the level of rights is shrinking, the social state is failing, the middle class, which is essentially the result of the social state, is getting stronger and on the other hand we have an increasing number of poor people. With us, as we can see, there are already 300,000 people living below the threshold of poverty. Therefore, it is crucial that we do not fall into this logic of economic growth and the so-called tickle-down effect, because if we can learn something in the last 20 years it is that economic growth itself does not create prosperity. The welfare needs to be taken care of by the state with social policy. Therefore, I think that proposals such as those today are crucial. If I go to law school for a while. In the United Left, we proposed two amendments. The first is that it is not a progressive arrangement proposed yesterday by the coalition on the parent committee, it is said that only for the first income class, subsidies are 100 %, for the second 70% and for the third 40%. Here our colleagues from the civil society of Petka for a smile – two of them are also with us on the balcony today – told us that this will not work on the ground. Because here we are talking about people who live below the poverty threshold and who will not be able to cover the additional funds of 30% or 60% in order to provide children with lunch. We can accept this today, but in one year through practice we will see that this will not happen, as colleagues from humanitarian organisations and civil society have repeatedly warned us yesterday that this is a problem we must face. Thus, parents will not have the money to pay for lunches, and therefore this proposal, which is ahead of us, will not meet its objective, this is for all children living below the poverty threshold to have a free lunch. We therefore propose an amendment to ensure this in hundreds of percent. In hundreds of percent, because the resources to be spent in this regard are not large in budgetary terms, and now, in the light of the fact that we have economic growth, I think that first of all, with the surpluses that this economic growth will create, we should take care of the most vulnerable by means of a tax debt that will be higher than this one. And for whom, if not for these children. The second point, with regard to the second amendment, is 1. 9 We would also insist here that this measure be introduced by a new school year. [[..]] We believe that feasibility itself is not the problem it is trying to present. If I give you just a few arguments. In 2013, when it was agreed to provide 20,000 additional meals in schools, this measure was adopted. 12. 2012 and introduced on 1 February. So, within a month, the schools provided 20,000 extra meals. This director, who was with us yesterday and who is the opposing party who advocates the enforcement of Law 1. 1. 2016 likes to quote, said that schools can do anything and that there will be no significant difference as to whether the law was introduced on 1 September or 1. 1. according to feasibility. Schools simply make an invitation to tender during the summer, and then they must be prepared no matter how many children apply. Two can apply, a hundred can apply, but the school must be prepared for the result of the call for it to be what it will be and provide the capacity to provide these children with food. Whether we accept a subsidy or not, schools today do not know how many children will have applied for school lunches on 1 September. Maybe this year 50 parents will decide more about lunch, for whatever reason, because they have a job that takes them so long into the afternoon that they have to have a baby for lunch at school this year, even though it wasn't last year. Their material status may be slightly improved and they will put children to lunch at school, but my point is that schools do not know at the moment and must allow all children who will apply for lunch in some way, regardless of who pays for it, or the country or parents directly from their pockets by 1 September. But I trust this director that schools can do anything, and I believe even more, some purely sound economic logic, that where we provide money, that is, where demand will be, the offer will be distinguished from itself. Today the Slovenian economy, including many restaurants, cafeterias and so on, does not work according to their 100% capacity, because there is simply not enough demand. We have been facing the demand crisis for seven years and this is why our economy is so slowly recovering from the crisis. If we create additional demand, an additional supply will quickly be created and we will also see this quickly in this case as regards the provision of school lunches. In short, we propose that the law be supported and supported as optimally as possible, namely that 100 % of the children's subsidies be accepted below the poverty threshold and the earliest possible implementation. The most ideal thing would be for this amendment of ours to be accepted is to go 1. 9. This law helps all children who currently have problems with school nutrition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u69	Thank you very much. I would only warn that we are under the first amendment and that we will have another amendment. Mr. Jan Škoberne has the replica. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I should have complemented my colleague Mesca when he quotes me because he quotes me with one sentence or one of my sentences sums up the debate, and I had a multifaceted sermon that had an introduction and a conclusion. The fact that economic growth in itself is not enough is clear to all of us here in the coalition, so we have a broader set of measures than just one fire bill. I've been talking about higher employment, I can get you a magnetogram and you'll read it easier. It is said that the key moment, the rise in employment, the redefinition or the rise in minimum wages and the wide range of measures are to ensure that the overall social standard is raised, which must be based on employment and quality pay for work. By the way, the consolidation of public finances, which brings lower debt costs, allows us to provide higher standards for citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Mesec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. The old proverb says that Rome was not built in one day, and it is similar with the social state. We build it wall by wall, proposal by suggestion. In every proposal we talk about the social state, we hear about how we need a wider range of measures. True, but a broader set of measures comes through time, next month we will propose the next issue, one more month and slowly building this concept of social state, unless someone comes to the National Assembly with a bill called the wider set of measures, where everything will be inside, which is obviously what we all want together. But I don't think this is going to happen and we need to take it one step at a time, be patient and support proposals that improve the welfare and standard of the people in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u73	Thank you. The Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič, entered the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u74	Thank you very much. I would just complete a few more explanations from the starting point of view and, of course, in this Article and this first amendment, focus, of course, on the financing itself, which is, however, some kind of precondition, so that we can ensure as soon as possible that even children will not be. As previously pointed out, the fact that the budget for 2016, 2017 is, of course, only at the beginning, in preparation, in coordination and that it will still take some time to complete these coordinations. But I think that by stepping forward, the government also responded immediately to the initiative and, of course, sought as constructive solutions as possible, along with other sources, the commitment made to take care of what we have also prepared with the professional basis, including reflections and at the same time with discussions with schools. Schools are in very different situations and it is true that schools are working extremely hard to provide as few hungry children as possible. You mentioned lunch. The malt is the one that can be organized relatively quickly. It is a cold meal and, of course, a fast - running meal. With this in many ways, teachers, teachers, and children are helping each other now. I think we heard that on the board yesterday, too. As far as lunch is concerned, this process of preparation and, of course, implementation is a little more difficult, including by providing standards and, of course, organisational aspects. Therefore, the original proposal was also based on an assessment within schools from that date, but the schools themselves eventually said that they would do their best and manage to organize everything from 1. 1. 2016 onwards. Let us imagine that large schools, which can take care of this relatively quickly, are small schools that can be very limited in infrastructure, may have a number of problems. I know that localally they are very helpful in this to connect with the kindergartens, to seek common solutions, and I think that they will also approach this together, and I also understand Mr Pecan's statement yesterday that schools will, of course, do everything in their power. But it is also true that we must approach them to help them, and yet allow them to prepare for all measures. This is not only true in this area, but also in other areas where we have often been unpredictable this year or may have reacted quickly to certain situations, so I think it would be right to really open up the implementation method, while also focusing on the fact that in the coming years, when it will be as sustainable on the one hand as on the financial side, we will move on to 100% as soon as possible when it allows for the framework and also the actual social capabilities. That is why we have also coordinated all of this between the departments. Simply because, on the one hand, it is a social measure and on the other hand, it is a measure to ensure the quality of education of children. I hope that by doing so and by acting quickly, we have also shown that the Government can still come together when it comes to a real problem, a problem that needs to be solved in the spirit of helping each other, but also to be feasible in solving these problems, and this has also been an emphasis on professional levels. From here, there's a debate yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Erika Girl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. In fact, I am very sorry that we are talking today in a way that we do not really agree on this subject, although this is not what we have demonstrated in the plenary session, when we first considered this proposal. At that time, of course, we unanimously supported the proposal of the United Left and I concluded the debate by saying that I hope that the Government will come up with solutions that are also appropriate in terms of fairness and accessibility. In addition, other aspects are important, and members of the committee who are actually members of the opposition also highlighted these aspects yesterday in the debate. However, these members of the parties once ran the government and understand what responsibility it is when you run the government. Here I am primarily thinking of the responsibility to adopt such a law so that it can actually be implemented. I'd like to support more than just one. 9. but tomorrow and, of course, 100% for all three classes, or even better, free lunches for all children. However, the reality is different and it seems right for me to be aware of this. In the hallway, I talked to my colleague, Miriam Bon Klanjšček, and I actually asked her if they were running the government in front of us, why they didn't arrange it. And she said they couldn't do it all in one year. I actually do. Why? Because our country has been down for years and years. We had a bunch of problems, a bunch of problems we have to solve. Not us, not the previous government and not the government of John Janša, have been able to solve all the problems. To be perfectly honest, I believe that they have tried their best, but I believe in the first place that no government has sought a solution in principle, let us take those who do not have, let us take the poorest, let us fasten the belt to the socially weak, and let us give to the rich. I'm pretty sure of that. Not everything is in political will because we have already found that we have political will in this case. However, as a responsible party, we must also draw attention to other aspects and problems. I pointed out a financial perspective yesterday, which unfortunately is not negligible. We have already said that there is no funding in the 2015 budget, and that is true. They need to be redistributed. I wouldn't know them myself because I just can't say who has too much and who can easily be taken away from nothing, let's not hurt anyone. The United Left has also been asked by both the media and us, in fact, by the idea of who to take, how to redistribute these funds in order to ensure this with September 1st. One idea, of course, was the defence budget. I wasn't in session yesterday to defend the defence budget. But I think it is right and fair for people who look at us and listen to us to say that this is exactly the budget we have been vacated by 40% over the last five years. The fact is that more than 80% of this budget is devoted solely to the personal income of the people who are employed there, which means, if we want to or not, that people with those incomes are also paying children lunches, lunches, excursions or whatever. What I have already communicated, I firmly believe that at the end of every action is a personal story, is a person, is a family and is a child. That's why I don't believe in quick decisions and reckless steps. One idea was, or was more critical, that we ended the highest income class. Later, a colleague of Violet's said that I was lying on TV. I'm not going down to this level and I'm going to say that she was actually lying because I believe that it was just a matter of not knowing the facts. We didn't shut down the highest income class. This class will cease to apply on its own at the end of the year if we do not extend it, we Members, here in the National Assembly. And then we'll know very well what we are or what we haven't done. One idea was the budget reserve. Of course, I went right away to see if it wasn't such a good idea and we could really get those funds there. I went to look at the Public Finances Act and found the 48th article that I'm about to read. "The funds are used to finance expenditure to address the consequences of natural disasters, such as earthquakes, floods, land reptiles, snow, high snow, strong wind, hail, cold, cold," in short, are serious disasters caused by natural forces or environmental disasters. Therefore, we cannot provide money from the budget reserve for this in 2015. I was also talking about the implementation aspect, not because I wanted to look for problems, but because I just read what the headmaster of the elementary school wrote to me, which would obviously be difficult to adapt so quickly to this measure. I believe that some schools will be able to do this very qualitatively and very quickly, and others will be very difficult to do so. Mr. Pecan did not only say that all schools could do it, he said many things, he also said that children were not hungry in schools, but let's leave them. In particular, he convinced me with a sentence that some schools would find it so difficult to ensure that it really mattered whether we were going to do so. 1. or 1. 3. That is why we have withdrawn the amendment. I will support the Government's proposal today because I firmly believe that we have to give schools time to adjust properly and I also know that we will find the means to extend the circle of beneficiaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The text is given by the proposer, in his name Luka Mesec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. In the debate about whether schools could arrange it by 1. In September, I would like to point out what I had previously warned that we had a principal yesterday who said that schools were ready for anything and that they should in any case be ready for the maximum of students who could apply for lunch by September 1st. I would also like to say that 85 schools signed a petition to introduce this on 1 September. It is said that a large number of schools are rooting for this, not only is it ready, but they are rooting for this to be accepted on September 1st. When talking about budgetary resources and where we will find money, I would only reply to Members that we have never proposed that this be taken from the reserve that talks about natural disasters, I think the item for this is budget 2302. We are talking here about the general reserve, where there are 11 million euros for any general action. And we never said we would take it out of the defence budget, but we said we had economic growth that would bring more resources to the budget than was envisaged. The budget was based on the assumption that economic growth in Slovenia will be 2%, the latest OMAR forecasts say that it will be 2.4%. We say that this 0.4% will result in a difference from which we can very much find an additional 6 million in order to introduce this measure this year. The last thing I would say when talking about the reallocation of budgetary money is that we have moved around EUR 20 million from other items at the regular meeting that we ended on Wednesday. Let's just say for ZIPRS, so for the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia, we have redistributed 13.75 million euros. What was the explanation for where to find these 13.75 million euros? It said "in other budget items", "let the money be redistributed". So it wasn't in marriage, it wasn't a source, it was a reallocation from other items to find these 13.75 million euros. That's how the National Council works. Assign some tasks to the Government that the Government must carry out, and if we decide today to impose on the Government to find in the budget an additional 6 million by 1 September for hungry children, it will have to find them. It's so simple. The last thing you say is that it's not all political will and that you don't know a government that takes away the poor and gives to the rich. A number of measures have been taken in recent years, which have exacerbated the material situation of the poorest, from the infamous ZUJF, to the flexibility of the labour market, to the fact that we have increased the contributions that are to be paid by abusive workers, namely students, workers in copyright contracts, who are already in the worst position, but who have only increased their contributions, not even their rights. In this way, the poorest and weakest parts of society have been further strained, although I must say here that in the United Left we in principle agree that we should put an end to the unfair forms of work in such a way as to simplify the labour market, have only a few forms of work on it, in the most elegant form of two, continuous work and temporary work, and that everyone should have about the same rights. I do not object, however, to the fact that contributions for the chaotic forms of work are being raised, but in this way, as has been done, it is nothing less than that the weakest parts of employees or workers have been raised by the contributions they have to pay have raised taxes, but they have not received any additional social rights or any rights deriving from work and enjoyed by, say, regular employees. In recent years, politics has done something to actually make the situation of the weakest in society worse by means of political measures. Once again, we must gather political will and our political will will depend primarily on not only what economy we have, but, above all, whether we have a country of prosperity or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u79	Thank you. The word has magic. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! We are also aware of the situation we are in, but I still do not understand why the government has decided to regression. Yesterday on the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, I did not receive any concrete answers. In particular, I would like to know how much less money the state will have to give to implement the law if it takes account of this regression scale. Let me be more specific. How much in money is a subsidy of 70% compared to 100% for the second income class? And how much money does it mean specifically for the implementation of a 40% lunch subsidy compared to 100% for the third income class? If you have this information, I'd be very happy to have it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irena Grošelj Kosnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u82	Thank you, Vice President. Dear representatives of the ministries, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We all agree here that this is a step in the right direction, that we are spreading the censorship, that there will be more children eligible for free lunch. Of course we see different paths. I think it is right that children do not share the fate of their families if they are materially weak, and that at least in this most basic area we are mitigating the consequences so that they can feel better and better at school. There has been a lot of talk here about what basic measures would be to prevent this, economic growth, more jobs, measures that would make sure that there are as few such cases as possible. There has also been a lot of talk about the fact that this is a fire-fighting action, that it is a narrow view and that we need a wider range of measures. I can agree with this in part, because the fact that we have only highlighted food here is, in fact, an illuminating part of the fact that the country is already helping families and children with a wide range of social measures. In addition to this diet, families, including those below the poverty line, are already at the disposal of children's allowances, cash social assistance, emergency social assistance, scholarships, the exemption of kindergarten payments, an allowance for care, a large family allowance, child support, parental allowances and parental benefits, which are not actually available anywhere in Europe. So we can see that we already have a very wide range of measures, which, of course, is already improving under the poverty threshold. We can say that those who are in the first, second and third income classes of the child supplement, with all the social assistance I have listed, are probably no longer below the poverty threshold, and that what we are talking about today is, in fact, deliberately narrowing down and not seeing the whole problem. I somehow understand that the government also followed this fact, that it did not let the image go wrong, and that it also took into account the various incomes that a family has. This is in some ways social justice, because it is probably right that that family that earns twice as much gets a transfer less than that family that earns twice or three times less. For if, regardless of the income of the family, 100 % of the allowance paid to the kindergarten, 100 % of the subsidy to transport, nutrition, 100 % of the scholarship, then many of these families would be better off than those workers who work and live on their families with a minimum wage or even a minimum wage. I think that this fact must also be taken into account, as well as this objective, which is one of the basic objectives of all social transfers and social legislation, that someone who does not work cannot be in a better position than those who work. On the other hand, as regards the date of entry into force, we have around 450 primary schools throughout Slovenia, 800 are about branch schools. 85 schools have been signed for this measure to enter into force immediately. I believe that schools are very limited in terms of their ability, personnel and technical capacity, but we all know that the public sector is very limited in these capabilities, but in very different situations, and that they cannot turn the board immediately and prepare for the 14 thousand more meals that this bill brings. On the other hand, I find it somewhat inconsistent with the proposaler who advocates the rights of workers – and so – that he does not take into account that schoolchildren are also workers and that they can only take their leave during school holidays. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u83	Thank you. The word is Violeta Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u84	Uh, because this debate is really already convincing the surest is impossible. [[...]] I'm aware of that, but I'll try. I didn't get any direct answers as to how you think a 361-euro mother could pay for lunch. So far, her baby hasn't eaten, so you're counting on her not to eat anymore, because then the school won't have a problem with the load. If you don't accept these two amendments, we haven't actually done anything. Those who haven't eaten before won't eat, because with so much money, I repeat, 361 euros, parents can't pay the rest of what they have left. In short, my secretary didn't answer either. You talked a lot, but I didn't get any specific answers. According to her colleague, the girl said that we would decide in the National Assembly. We don't imagine we're all making decisions here. You decide, a coalition that has a majority. Our proposals are usually rejected, so it's always the way you'll decide. I'm sorry there's no Minister of Marble here. I want to know how long you've been doing this coordination. How did you come by this? How much time have you spent? Because when you talk about other supplements that you mentioned earlier, about documents, child support, parental allowance, I don't know what you're talking about. Are you saying that these people aren't poor because they have so many supplements? In short, I don't understand. When we are talking about the budgetary resources of the general budget reservation, the Government has reactivated the budget item Additional appropriations to the municipalities, has included the measure Financial Alignment to the municipalities in the current 2015–2018 Development Programme Plan and has implemented the allocation of appropriations for the general budget reservation. This general budget provision exists. It is a matter of political will whether we decide to feed these children who live below the poverty threshold or not. Please also explain this, this is again a hypothetical question that appeared on POP TV at the meeting yesterday with the representative of Friday. Would schools be able to provide these capacities if they were now 1. September – do we not know how many children will apply for lunch – as the payers reported all the children? At that time, schools would probably suddenly activate all their capacities and would be able to do so. In short, the progressive scale is unacceptable to us. We want you to reconsider, it is still time for you to think and vote properly. No one has told me exactly how a child who has not eaten so far will be able to eat, who will pay the difference and how we will deal with it. This measure is the only one that goes directly to children, directly into their stomachs and does not go to anyone else. I don't know what else to tell you, because I see that we speak two completely different languages. Some speak of responsibility as if we, who are proposing, are not thinking responsibly. Of course, it is the responsibility of the young man first, and I believe that if Parliament imposes something on the government here, then the government will also find a way to solve it, and if it is political will, there will be success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja Sluga has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that. I am sorry that my colleagues are discussing this as if we are rejecting anything here today. The question was whether we would provide additional resources and whether we would extend the range of beneficiaries. We will. The debate I am listening to is like we don't want to reject it as if we don't want to understand it and as if we don't want to go the other way. We have found several times in this mandate of this Assembly of State that we have a whole bunch of laws in our country, a whole bunch of legislation that is not being implemented. It is for this reason that any further adoption of legislative proposals should be cautious and considered and such a proposal should be adopted, which will in practice be implemented and will therefore achieve the purpose envisaged by this Act. I am pleased that the situation in our country is improving, that economic indicators are positive and that unemployment is also declining. Nevertheless, we still do not have as much resources as we would like to share them, but all measures need to be reconsidered and targeted. For when we look at the total numbers that this country is earmarking for social transfers already today, the numbers are very high. We would like the effect of these high numbers to be that high, that is. It is therefore necessary to think very hard and really, as colleague Grošelj Košnik has already said, it is necessary to distinguish between those who earn once, twice or three times more, and therefore it is also necessary to channel and allocate funds in a way that is as fair as possible and that this should be managed as equally as possible for all. This targeted orientation is therefore necessary and therefore this progressive scale is also envisaged. Even now, as has already been exposed to today, all children have a free meal up to the fifth grade of the children’s supplement, which of course was relatively easy to perform, given that the meal is a cold meal and can practically be performed from today to tomorrow. This, of course, does not present any problem either for the capacity of the kitchens or for the available staff that each school has. Now we are talking about a warm meal, and I believe that colleagues coming from larger cities may be thinking in this direction that schools can do this relatively. I come from a small village myself, from a small school and tell you that already today the capacities and personnel are barely covering what is already being done in these kitchens, and in fact, with the provision of additional meals there are very serious problems. So somehow, in the coalition, we listened to what the principals told us, what the schools told us, that they needed to be given time, and they should be allowed to prepare for such a measure. I don't know if my colleagues have ever been involved in any new recruitment process. As we have found here and data from the Ministry, 55 to 90 new jobs would be needed to implement this measure. As has already been said today, schools are on vacation. Employees have the right to make use of annual leave and the procedure for hiring one additional worker takes time. Even if the invitation to tender were to go out today, this cannot be done until 1 September. When there was also a talk about how many schools signed this petition. I'm glad they did, and I'm sure everyone else would, too, because I'm sure they want it to be possible for them to do it tomorrow, but unfortunately they're not. Of course, schools will carry out everything they have been charged with, as they have done so far, the question is how many problems this will cause them. Perhaps another comment. My colleague Tomić already has a big daughter, my friend Moon probably doesn't have any kids yet. I have two of my own, and I know exactly that in mid-June, I always get home forms that I have to fill out, on which I have to sign up, whether my child will be registered for school lunch next school year, or whether he will be registered for school lunch, which activities he will visit, and which subjects he will choose. So schools know and this derogation, which, of course, can then appear in September, is only minimal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u87	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. I was born in the Belokran village of Zilja to a primary school teacher and a mother cook who has spent her entire working time in the kitchen and now has 447 euros in pension. I promised that I would know better because this is moral-ethical here, but after what Mrs Servant said, I admit that my stomach is lifting. But if I'm reading Mrs Lipicer's interview and some of the interviews she's given recently, if I leave aside the part where we're jumping into the New Slovenia cabbage, where she says, "For the peaceful development of the nation, it is necessary to find the right relationship between liberal and conservative values," in these interviews, I see no social, social and so on. It's probably this new policy that you're just going through. As in a bag of surprises, people have given you this mandate, and you will end up at the history dump sooner or later. If I make this argument on behalf of the SMC for a short logical operation, you have said this: schools are on vacation, as a result the children will be hungry for it because it cannot be arranged. I forgot to say that I was literally born in school, that I would say "literally" in my mother's language, and the crowds that I've listened to now go beyond almost everything I've listened to in this national assembly. That snacks are a cold meal. I know that certain schools also had hot meals for lunch. So that's totally not true. I'm also from smaller settlements. To hire 90 new people. Great, let's encourage employment in Slovenia! If I look at what we've been dealing with in the last year – if I give it to folklore, that we've been dealing with a Mr. Ivan Janez for 20 years – the coalition has dealt with itself, by assembly, we've got a secretary of state at the Ministry of the Economy a few days ago. Plus, the debate is always going in the direction that money is for nothing and how legal-formal, because it's the most powerful lobby in the SMC, there's nothing to be done. Then let's get self-absorbed, people of God! I'll refer to God, too. Let's turn it off! The money will always be too small, there will always be more appetites in public stores, such as money, and of course public cash registers have two ends, and they also have an income end, which we do not talk about in general. What's the matter with me here? This is some topic where you can start populism until you pass out, but I won't, "A subsidized lunch was given to 14,000 989 students, which is 13.30%." Are you aware of the conditions under which these 15,000 children live? What kind of money is this? Most of you here have clothes with no shoes or cotta more expensive than these families deserve in a month. But we have a lot of exercise here and we talk about it as if it's a measure where we now decide that Slovenia will send a delegation to Mars and it's some kind of complex measure. But if you're not able to do such a "measurer" on the executive branch, then I really can't say anything but give up. And these are the Social Democrats who have feuded this area. Okay, you'll say that Mr. Svetlik has come through Desus inside. This has happened to us in the last decade. It is true, I can partly agree with Mrs Grošljeva, but no matter what your interpretation is, someone who does not work will live better than someone who works. We really put this country in a situation where it's sometimes said that you have a job and you'll survive, and now you do and you don't survive. An extraordinary meeting should be held on a minimum wage that does not allow for decent survival. I just don't want to get involved in this topic anymore because I'm literally throwing up in here today, I'd rather back off, but it actually points to your ideological platform, a sea of excuses. I doubt you're decent enough to do this, but you just can't see this poverty because it's beyond your ideological, personal, optics. There is no excuse here for the Minister of Education to come from a district where she did not deal with lower levels of education, but it is a civil initiative of citizens and citizens who, unlike you, see it, who signed it. A whole set, a palette of some civil social matters. We're not making anything up. But no, you're gonna be doing yours, and I hope you end up in the history dump as soon as you can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u89	Thank you. Mr. Simon Zajc has the floor, Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. I wasn't paying attention before, I see I only have 25 seconds of time, so I'm not going to argue now. If there's a time-share, then I'll check in, because 25 seconds is too short for me.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u91	Thank you. The word has magic. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Actually, I wasn't going to come forward today because I really hope that we're all children. But when I listen to excuses, why can't all this be done, of course I couldn't stay quiet. You know very well that I myself have often been critical of any statements made by my colleagues from the United Left, but today I absolutely support them in everything they have said. 15 million and a half should be a measure if it were in force for the whole year. 18 million, my dear fellows, will be provided to the congregations with transfers this year. Well, it's not true you can't. That's not true. There are two reserves in the budget. One is for natural disasters, as a colleague used to read, and the other is for everything else. If you find $18 million for the congregations, I don't think you'll find more than $5 million for the children. This demagogies, how they are for your children, but unfortunately they are not, and therefore you cannot, and cannot, hold on, not hold on. Even Mr. Cerar said he'd be in the army. I really don't want to be populist, at least at the expense of the children, but what you're doing here today is beyond all limits. Say you will, you will then, but don't look, I apologize for stupid reasons. It's money. If there's anything else, it's for that. You just don't want to give it to kids whose parents can't pay for it. I'm asking you to reconsider what we're doing. The committee said at least one director said that they were able to do this immediately, and eventually, if parents could pay, they would have had to ensure all of this by June this year or earlier. Really, if this is really the same thing, let's do it. But if not, at least don't look for reasons that really do, but really do, they don't. If you find everything else and find out about everything else, look at the government's conclusions on Thursday, what the government will provide the money for. And I'm not saying it's not necessary. We fought for the congregations to leave them where they were in the first half of the year, but for the first time technically yes, and for the second time obviously money is found. Really think about what you're doing.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u93	Thank you. Reploco has Mrs. Janja Sluga.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u94	My colleague Bratusek, I'm sorry you didn't listen to us very carefully because we said we would and we'd tell you when. For this time, we have given weighty reasons and no excuses. These reasons came from schools and principals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u95	Thank you. Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u96	Thank you very much. There were quite a few reasons for and something against. Although I don't know why we should be talking about against it. We actually have a situation from today, when it's nothing for the 2nd and 3rd classes, yet somehow we raise it to 70 and 40%. I've told you before, and I have to do it again. I, too, would be unseemly more satisfied if I were 100% of the 2nd and 3rd grade subsidies. However, I am not entirely dissatisfied with such a compromise that was not easy, believe me, what I am saying can be achieved. If that were the reason why we decided to do so because it is in the context of financial capacity, whether the children are hungry or not, then I would be ashamed to be supported by such a law. We can also be critical of the measures that this country has in the field of social policy, family policy and scholarship policies. Perhaps we can be the most critical in the field of scholarship policy. We know, however, that this country has an excellent policy in the field of social transfers, namely social policy and family. But also this, of course, in the same breath, I must say that, given how much we have been falling and losing our flight lately, of course I want it to stop and stop here – I do not speak of course of the United Left – to start a demagogy, when people could do something and people had scissors and canvas, but nothing has happened. These are the measures we are now taking, which I am sure will bring some results in combination with other measures. Of course, I believe it is very difficult to do this from today to tomorrow, but somehow we have also reached one compromise, one consensus that we will not delay this deep in 2016, but we will do it with January 1st 2016. I believe it won't be too late. I believe that this will not cause any additional problems and that the result will, of course, be positive in the final stage. And once again, I'm going to allow myself to repeat here that we're here at this time to eliminate all the anomalies that have turned out to be a very serious problem. I have in mind, once again, the methodology for calculating prices, I have in mind all these strong menus, which are such and different, the transport of food, the time from preparation to serving meals, in short, a whole bunch of things that irritate things here and cause unnecessary administrative and logistical cases. Let's simplify things here, as we like to say, let's remove some administrative obstacles here and have children in mind and their position in particular. But it seems to me that there are some political points here, losing some high-flying words is wrong and not appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Ms Martina Vuk, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, took the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Still, I have to take another look, given how easy it is to give numbers, how we show what the real situation is, because then we have to say what it really is, so that people will still know what we are talking about, because we are all sensitive to the word children, and then we forget a little bit about what content we are adding. When we talk about income, which is the criterion for determining the child allowance, we are talking about the amount of income in the net amount per individual. More than a person, with this number of persons, this amount is multiplied. So when we're talking about 361 euros, if you've been saying that this is the whole income, then that's the kind of kid in this one-parent family who's already had lunch for free today, and he's still going to have it. Besides lunch, he's got free lunch today. This 361 is not the whole income of this single parent family with one child, which we hypothetically created, but then looks at the cash social assistance limit, and this family is entitled to this difference, and it is also entitled to a child allowance of EUR 114 for the first child in the 1st income class and increases by 30% because it is a single parent family. Of course, as always, we speak hypothetically. However, when it comes to €361 per family member, this family has a starting income of €724, which is increased by the amount of the child allowance, which is €74.5 per first child, and is increased by 30%. Then there's all the subsidies, all the exemptions, all the excuses that follow. So it's really hard to talk about which numbers we talk about, what someone has, what someone actually has. That's why we're saying it's hard to isolate just one little "action" and talk like it's the only thing this country can do. This country allows the whole package. I don't know if I've been referred to before, we never say that we have to come up with a whole set of measures, but we're saying that we have a whole system that could absolutely be better, which is being gradually repaired, adding and checking to see what else needs to be fixed, but we have. And we are not the United States of America and our goal is not to be the United States of America, perhaps after economic growth yes, we would absolutely want it, but by how we allocate our income, which the country has, we are significantly different. Even after we have arranged public services. The aim of our public services is that they are accessible, that they are the same for all that they are effective. This is the goal of our public services that we have, which we provide and for which we must care, which are an important pillar in support, which is not an individual income that each individual receives in his pocket, but is our social welfare, greater social justice and greater solidarity in society, because we have these systems provided and established. We've got them. But we must not pretend that they are self - confident and that they are forever if we do not take care of them. Therefore, I say that it is difficult to speak so insularly about an individual measure. I will point out once again, I am really sad that we speak in a way that we want some children to be satisfied, and others we do not see because we live in clouds, in some world where we do not want everyone to eat lunch at school. I'm sorry, but this is an insult to all people in this country, because I think we all want children to be able to eat as much as they need and to eat so that it is appropriate for the best possible development in their lives. It's not right for us to talk like this. Therefore, once again, this measure adds this measure to all families who today have difficulty paying lunches for school students according to the income of these families. Ask your mother a single or two parents, with one, with two, with five children, as you wish, the one who is really completely at the bottom and today has free lunch, or it seems appropriate for him who has twice as much income or even more, to be equally eligible for this free lunch, if the country can and should be able to help the one who is at the bottom. It must, because it is the principle of a social state, it is the principle of a solidarity state and solidarity is a great value to me. If solidarity is increasing in this country, then we are finally going to become a community, not just a society, but that must be the goal of all of us. Because if we act as a community, then there will be much better things in this country, not only when the state arranges when the state orders or when the state gives, but because we will all realize that we have to invest something in order to have something together, all of us. Because it's up to us how we live, how everyone in this country lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u99	Thank you. Does anyone else want to discuss Article 1 and the amendment? The proposer wants a word. Mr. Luka Moon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. We all agree that this proposal is added, but it does not add as much as we have asked. We wanted the proponents, and this is our primary goal, to provide all children living in families below the poverty threshold with free lunch. This does not require a large budget, which requires less than one budget gap. We have shown that, from the reserve and from the additional inflows to the growth budget, this is simply feasible in autumn, only today must the National Assembly decide and impose on the Government to locate an additional 6 million for school lunches in the months from September to December. Whoever says this is impossible, I remind him once again that we had a meeting of the National Assembly, which we concluded on Wednesday, for 20 million budget transfers. In the laws of the heavy 13 million and more, such as ZIPRS, we had a simple argument that the Government from other budget lines should find 13.75 million and use them for averages for municipalities. It was so easy to explain there. Now that we don't find 6 million for the kids this year, it's just simply incomprehensible to me. We have 11 million budget reserves, not about the natural disaster reserve, but about the general reserve, and we have 0.4% higher economic growth than forecast, which means that there will be more money in the budget. So this is completely feasible and there is no reason why we should delay this and why we should introduce here a progression for which, Madam Secretary, I agree with you that it is fair, but above the threshold of poverty. For those below the threshold of poverty, there must be no debate as to whether they will have to pay for themselves or not. These people simply do not have the money to do this, and therefore this measure will simply miss its goal by this addition to progress. I am sorry, but we cannot support the United Left and we cannot agree with the argument that progress is fair in such small incomes as €180 per family member and €360 per family member. These are simply such small incomes that we no longer have anything to take from these people. And only humanitarian organisations and civil society that engages in their problems are concerned that these people can still live in this country because we have forgotten them as a country. It is time to start thinking about these people to start supporting them as the National Assembly, and one of the first steps we can take now is to support this law in its optimum form, so by adding that we co-finance school lunches for the poorest children in 100%, and by adding that we go into this action with 1. 9. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u101	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? There's no more time. I note that there is no further debate on Article 1 and the amendment. I am putting to the debate the amendment to Article 2 tabled by the United Left, the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek and the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Moon as a motioner, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. For those of you who are new to the debate. The second amendment is on the date of application of this Act. It is said that the law currently states that the law will enter into force 1. 1. 2016, three parliamentary groups – United Left, Alliance of Alenka Bratušek and Nova Slovenija – we propose to enter into force on 1 September. I have repeatedly said why in the transitional debates, so that I do not repeat myself. And I'm just going to point out once again that September 1st is the optimal date because it's the first day of school. This has been pointed out by humanitarian organisations that are instigators of this law. Eighty-five schools have signed under this, or we are invited to accept it. September. However, budget resources are available in A – General Reserve and B – additional inflows to the budget, which will flow from 0.4% higher growth. Therefore, as a motioner, I call on Members to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Iva Dimic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Respectable ministers, colleagues and colleagues! In Novi Slovenija we signed an amendment saying that free lunches for socially disadvantaged children will be introduced on September 1st this year, simply because I feel that September 1st is the date when it is right that even parents know in advance what is waiting for them. There are many times when we also accept things that change in the middle of the year. I think I can say from experience that this is not good, that when the time comes, many things are forgotten, overlooked, and sometimes it seems to me that it is possible even purposefully done, that in some ways people are sorry to save money in the budget. For September 1st, we also signed because we somehow understood the proponents or the government coalition to go gradually towards who the beneficiary is. It seems to me that September 1st is real that the date when there will actually be no such serious attack on lunch, that this could not be established, because if there were really those 55 thousand immediately on September 1st, I understand all the school representatives that this problem would be, but if there was this progressive scale, I think that September 1st should not be a problem for the implementation of these free lunches to be socially threatened. In a way, I've said a while ago that it saddens me that maybe the hungry children are becoming some kind of ideology here in the National Assembly. I'd like to alert this place to the next one. What about the older ones? What about people who are 65 years old, and they don't even have 400 euros to live in a house? In short, we need to be understanding here, and we really want him to be 1. September. I think that there can still be a change here, so I also invite both ministers to think, not least, we have obtained calculations as to how many of these children there would be so that the date can only be accepted and become universally applicable to all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 2nd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. On the day-to-day basis, this is on a defensive proposal for a law on the conditions for the implementation of the measure of discharge of debts in accordance with the current procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Minister for Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities of Dr Anji Kopač Mrak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u106	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Members and Members! So before you is the law following the urgent procedure that you have made possible, thanks to you for being treated today in accordance with the urgent procedure. This is the proposal for a law on the conditions for the implementation of debt relief measures. In fact, the law is just the basis for a tax neutral discharge of debts that we have been preparing for a long time. I can say that the whole project was created with the participants, in particular companies that cover and deal with the provision of these basic services related to residence, i.e. companies that provide electricity, energy and municipal services, because it was a basic objective to write off citizens and citizens and thus facilitate the settlement of current obligations. In addition, last minute we were joined by Adriatic, Triglav and Mutual insurance companies with write-offs related to additional supplementary health insurance, as well as banks, so that this is a broad social arrangement in which the state enters into its work. The Act states that the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia will also write off public benefits of up to EUR 50 and also the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities will allow beneficiaries to cancel debts or over-received benefits from monetary social assistance, a protective allowance and child allowances. It is important that all branches of government structures or branches in the country are included, and the municipalities are mainly through the ownership of municipal enterprises and also through the establishment of kindergartens and primary schools, where we wanted to make a written-off of school food claims together with them, which is the point you spoke about earlier. In fact, the law provides in particular that VAT-related obligations are to be charged, that no additional costs are to be paid to undertakings and that this tax write-off is also neutral in view of the fact that companies do not pay the credit for the debt written off and that this debt is not to be considered as an income to individuals. At the same time, clearly recorded write-off beneficiaries are recipients of cash social assistance, a protective allowance, a veteran supplement, families receiving the first, second and third grades of the child supplement. In the latter, third grade, it is further necessary that the family is large, that is to say, has a large family allowance, or that it has a child-care decision, which means that there is a more complex situation and that they have these decisions at any time in the period between 1. 1. 2015 and 30. 6. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law also provides for the write-off of debts on day 31. 12. 2014 is at least one year old. In fact, debts for 2013 and the elderly are being written off. Why? Because we had the highest unemployment rate in our country at the time, the biggest crisis. The data available today on the level of poverty risk are also available for 2012 revenues and then, according to all the data, the crisis was the strongest, so we decided to go to this write-off period. There's also some talk about who these beneficiaries are. Unfortunately, we have the majority of recipients of monetary social assistance and a protective allowance, which are, of course, long-term recipients. So it is highly likely that at the time of the write-off there were recipients, and in particular those who are entitled to it today have used all their savings and other possibilities to survive, and it is necessary to enable them to start easier. The performance itself is important, the dates. The write-off itself will start with a 1. 8th, but there's no rush, it'll take until 31st. 10. when it is possible to submit a write-off proposal to those who will accede to the write-off. However, the write-off itself will have to be carried out by the end of January 2016. There's no hurry. We will provide all information on the website. The main objective is, of course, to agree to write off debts on Monday, the first day of the signing ceremony, by a number of companies, municipalities and others. Of course, Monday is not that last date and it will be possible for all interested parties to join this project later. I believe that this will be one project, where we have managed to bring together such socially responsible companies, banks, the state participates and the municipality – so this is primarily a broad social agreement – and that this is a way of solving social problems. So let's start together and do things for everyone's good. Our goal is to show that we can do the right thing together without having to do the right thing. Thank you for your support for this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Uroš Pikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, representatives of the government! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities today, at its 16th emergency meeting, considered the draft law on the conditions for the implementation of the debt relief measure submitted by the Government to the Assembly with a proposal for the consideration and adoption of the proposal under urgent procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the proposal for a law on the conditions for the implementation of debt relief measures should be dealt with on an urgent basis and that the Committee should therefore consider it on the basis of Rule 144 of the Rules of Procedure. Representatives of the Government, i.e. Ministry of Labour, Ministry of Finance, representative of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, representative of the Cabinet of the President of the Government of Slovenia and the Union of Free Trade Unions, participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee received the opinion of the Commission of the State Council, which expressed its support and support for the provisions of this Act in relation to this law. The Committee also received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which had several concerns, so the coalition parties prepared amendments to Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6. Representatives of the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia also presented their views. The representatives of the proposer, the Minister for Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance stressed the purpose or purpose of the bill. The debate, which was somewhat the longest held in Article 1, which is also a practice, of course, expressed the view of the debaters that the purpose of the bill was positive and that is why they all agreed to support it. However, the view was raised that this was a positive measure, but that it was a one-off measure, and therefore lower taxes should also be considered. But the right path for greater prosperity is, of course, economic growth and measures in this area. The representative of the Group The United Left, who submitted a similar proposal to the National Assembly a while ago, pointed out that the proposed law was somewhat more restrictive as the number of excusers was lower. The determination that only those receiving social transfers between 1 January 2015 and 30 June of the same year are entitled to write-off seems to be very narrow. With the amendments tabled by the Group of Ambassadors, the United Left would expand the circle of excuses. It is also necessary to lay out such criteria as to allow the widest possible range of excuses to be taken, and they have therefore called on the members and members of the committee to support their amendments. As it was said, the debate was quite long. I don't have enough time to explain all this for a long and broad reason. At the final stage, the Committee adopted amendments to the coalition groups in the articles I have already mentioned in the introduction. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all articles of the bill and, of course, adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law, which includes all the amendments adopted, has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of the report you received on your bench. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u109	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Allies Alliance of Alenka Bratušek, for her mag. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u110	Thank you. Your Honor! Today we have talked about children who are over 55,000 and live in families who cannot afford lunch at school. Now we're not gonna talk about the kids, we're gonna talk about their families. The number of unemployed, who by no means falls below 120 thousand, has pushed many households to the very brink of survival, to life with rubble, blocked running accounts, to life in fear of borrowing, power out, and so on. Not a month ago, we were familiar with the law introduced by the Group of Members of the United Left. At that time, we made it clear that we agree with the very idea of debt write-off. We have also said that we believe that the problem of such a law is so complex that it is not real that the law of the Member is going to solve it. Finally, for these purposes, we have the Government, the Ministry and all the support services coordinated by the Government or the Ministry. According to her predictions, we expected that the law would be passed, conceived and would actually solve the problems of the households of those who needed it. We don't know why the minister was in such a hurry to file her marriage. Maybe he's competing with the opposition parliamentary group? I can't go through with this, because I think that the Minister and the Government could take at least another month to draft a law that would really be complete and not open up as many questions as the proposal today. The opinion of the Law and Legal Service, the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia and the Municipality of Ljubljana is also attached to this position. The project will involve energy companies, electricity companies, managers, insurance companies and banks. As owners of utilities, kindergartens and primary schools, municipalities will also participate. The financial management will write off up to €50 for beneficiaries, such as a fine for traffic offences or an amount of income. At least that's what the government says. Too much social benefits will also be deducted, both cash social assistance and a child allowance and a protective allowance. The maximum amount that the country can spend on debt write-off is a million euros, so one of the criteria for debt relief will also be the order of deposits. The country, companies, and congregations will be able to decide on how much debt they owe to an individual. For this reason, we will support the law in the parliamentary group, with the hope that the law will in practice be enforceable and implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u111	Thank you. The text is addressed to Mr Saša Tabaković, the Group of the Modern Centre Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u112	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We support the proposal for a law on the conditions for the implementation of debt relief measures in the SMC Group. There are several reasons, but the most important remains the burden on individuals of past debts, the improvement of their social situation and social security. By adopting the bill, I am once again proving that we are a society that is still building its future on the principle of solidarity and social justice. The proposal for a law provides a solution based on a broader social consensus or agreement that provides for more measures to help the socially weak. In doing so, the draft law governs the tax treatment of individual taxes and transactions in the event of a single write-off of debts arising from regular household expenses and from supplementary health insurance and banking services. The law also lays down the types of debts and means by which the State, kindergartens and primary schools write off their claims. Companies that write off debts will thus not have to pay the value added tax under this heading but not the income. The bill also defines the debtor and the debt. According to the proposal of the law, the beneficiaries of the debt write-off are those who were in the period from 1. 1. Up to 30. 6. 2015 recipients of cash social assistance, a protective allowance, a veteran supplement and a child allowance, and persons referred to in the decision on the right to financial social assistance, a protective allowance and a child allowance and their income and property shall be taken into account in determining the material situation in accordance with the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds. In doing so, it should be pointed out that the majority of recipients of cash assistance are long-term recipients. In this context, the impact of the bill's proposal on the well-being of the beneficiaries of debt write-off under the proposed law is significant, as their material situation is already so weak that they cannot bear any older financial burdens and debts. Since it is a single act or a one-off debt write-off, a provision defining the debt as a valid debtor’s liability on the day 31. 12. 2014 west for more than 12 months, meaningful and necessary. The debt relief agreement may be concluded no later than 31. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The draft law does not imply coercion, but means the undertaking of the creditor who accedes to the agreement to write off the debtor's irrevocable debt as determined. Recognizing that at the moment when debt write-offs are the weakest subject of successful negotiations resulting in the cooperation of energy, electricity and real estate management companies and insurance and banks, a fact that strengthens social sense and proves that we are able to come together and cooperate at such times. In a set of measures to help the weak, the Government has also prepared the starting points for other activities related to the establishment of a specific mechanism that provides support and assistance to persons who have been employed and temporarily settled in residential facilities owned by the Republic of Slovenia, the activation and use of unoccupied dwellings with which the Republic of Slovenia is located; an advisory activity aimed at highlighting the effectiveness of timely resolution of the problem related to the operation and information on the legislative basis and other means of resolution in cases where the family is followed by employment; and the resolution of the problem has paid the costs of banks in the implementation of enforcement decisions, including the so-called social pre-payment card. Some of these measures are already being implemented, and it is essential that the proposal is adopted by autumn, as debts accumulate. The unsurpassed situation of some individuals and families is escalating from day to day. We will therefore support the proposal of the SMC Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u113	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Uroš Prikl has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u114	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to brief you on the position of our parliamentary group on the proposal for a law on the conditions for discharge of debts. At the 9th ordinary meeting of the National Assembly, we announced that we would support the government's proposal for debt relief for the weakest. Of course, I would rather see in this discharge the write-offs used in such terminology, but well, in the content, it is not an incomprehensible thing in the context. Why? Of course, there are more reasons. Let me remind you that the Government proposal then convinced us that the activities of the competent ministry in this area have been going intensively for a long time and are going in the right direction. Above all, because the proposed solution in the form of an agreement is based on the principle of volunteerism, proportionality and social responsibility. We are convinced that the Ministry has made a great deal of efforts to take into account the actual situation of debt, taking into account the specific social situation in our country, the review of the applicable financial and tax legislation and, finally, taking into account good practice, the solutions that are in this bill. Unfortunately, too many people are demanding an increasingly difficult social situation, not for bread and milk, but for high rankings, that I am not even talking about better ones. The number of debtors is steadily increasing, including an increasing number of those who go to work and receive poor payments for their proper work. Even older populations, pensioners, the more worrying there is no exception. In the Desus Group, however, we are most concerned that the amount of the pension of those who have worked for forty or more years is not enough to cover the basic cost of living. The reason lies in the consequences of the economic crisis. Although current indicators show a slightly better picture, in our view they are still not what we would like them to be. In our Member State, we have already pointed out that there is a need for a little more effort in other measures to start the whole economy. First of all, we see the solution in providing new jobs and preserving old ones. We are also convinced that the responsibility of the Ministry and Government as a whole will not end with this step. Other measures are foreseen, such as the establishment of so-called social cards or, if you want prepaid cards, the regulation of the situation in the field of traineeships, the continuation of active employment policy measures, the stimulation of employers in employment, the resolution of the problem of employment and could also be listed. The DeSUS Group is a advocate of the social state and supports an active approach to solving social problems. It is our wish that the entire social package of measures will see the light of the world as soon as possible. The law ahead of us is in the direction of the necessary legal basis, which lays down a specific long-standing arrangement, namely the exemption from the payment of income due to the debtor. This means that it is only a specific tax area, but not a whole debt write-off concept, because, as we have already said, the debt write-off proposal is based solely on a voluntary agreement. Therefore, in the Desus Group we welcome the objective pursued by the law so that no additional costs, additional burdens, additional obstacles are imposed on any of the stakeholders. We also believe that tax reliefs for creditors are already properly regulated in systemic legislation. We are particularly aware that it is a voluntary write-off that should work in the light of the resolution of the socially disadvantaged part of the population, but not only for the personal benefit of an individual or an individual. The fact is, it is an old debt that is already known or can reasonably be concluded to be very difficult or never recover or repay. In the Desus Group we estimate that a voluntary concept is the added value that will bring together a wide range of different stakeholders. Such a joint performance, in our view, can lead to true and effective solutions. All of this, and in particular the fact that we still care about the most endangered population groups in Desus by words and actions, is the reason why all Members of the Desus Group support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u115	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! In the parliamentary group, we do not think that such laws should be adopted in Slovenia concerning the forgiveness of debts to the weakest, but obviously the situation has been so driven that it has unfortunately occurred in Slovenia, so we welcome the law before us, which is the result of the Ministry of Labour's monthly efforts and is part of a package of measures to help the most vulnerable citizens. The bill provides for the possibility of a one-time debt write-off to whom and under what conditions. It is important, however, that it is based on a broader social agreement, which will allow citizens who are in serious material and social distress to be relieved of their position on the basis of a voluntary approach to an agreement concluded between the government and creditors who have claims against citizens. The agreement reached includes debt write-offs, debt relief and the introduction of a social card. We must be aware that this is a single measure, and if we are not aware of why such a situation has taken place, then the law can be repeated for us or that we will re-admit similar laws in the National Assembly in the future. Because the crisis that took place not only in Slovenia, but actually took place in the world, i.e. the economic and financial crisis, is the fruit of the interests of capital, which also offered a cheap debt in Slovenia. In fact, both the Government and the regulator of Banka Slovenije cancelled here, which did not warn the economy in time that it did not own a cheap debt offer. Of course, then the artificial economic crisis has also led to companies not being able to pay off debts, and it has all come on the shoulders of all of us, as well as those we are trying to save or help with this law today. The fact is that in Slovenia this instant is 410 thousand people on the verge of social exclusion, and this law will somehow reach some 100,000 people who are already in need of assistance. If we are not working to prevent such procedures that lead to lowering human standards, then we will not talk about 100,000, but about 400 thousand people who are in severe distress. But this tribulation is also due to the fact that, in fact, in this crisis, it shows that it was designed to make the rich even more vulnerable and to take on the poorer or less wealthy. In Slovenia, this process is evident through the recapitalisation of banks, we have invested EUR 5 billion in the banking sector, we have covered all these liabilities created by capital, and unfortunately these banks are not returning this money to people through the financing of the economy and economic development or economic growth. Moreover, if I use the term in this law, we have given 70% of debt relief to capital by transferring loans to a so-called bad bank. Thus, capital has also received valuable assistance in Slovenia, but this aid is obviously not yet reflected in the social situation of people in Slovenia. Therefore, we can say that the pattern advocated by neoliberalism is not capable of responding to the challenge of how to pay attention to the common good at the heart of society, as it is obvious that it is only for the individual benefit and not for the benefit of the entire community. Given that we are assessing, both at home and abroad, that the economy is recovering in Slovenia or that economic growth is almost among the highest within the euro group, it is rightly expected that this economic growth will also be reflected in the rising standards of our people. This is the only way to prevent us from saving 100 grand, but maybe more people. We'll support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u117	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, Mr Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We started the debate on debt write-off in the National Assembly with the United Left six months ago, in mid-January. I must say, it was one of the few that made some progress. At the beginning, at the debate 23. In January, when we opened this matter, the State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance replied that debt write-off was not necessary because we have an institution of personal bankruptcy. Her colleague from the Ministry of Social Affairs was of the opinion that the socially disadvantaged do not need write-offs because they can obtain exceptional social assistance. Today, however, we do have a government debt write-off law ahead of us, so we've reached a shift in our heads and finally got some practical solution, so in the United Left we're going to support the law. Unfortunately, however, the government and the coalition have failed to move from addressing socially disadvantaged people according to their legal status to addressing their actual social and material situation. As a result, the treatment of applicants in this law is very uneven, as the law itself places them in very different situations. I'm only gonna take two cases that go up in my eyes. For the single recipient of social assistance, the price of write-off is EUR 269 and for a single veteran is EUR 497, which is almost twice the price. For the household of two adult recipients of social assistance, the price of €430 is, for example, for the household of two adults, one of whom is a veteran, the price of €994 is more than twice as high. Article 8 of the War Veterans Act provides that a veteran is entitled to an allowance if the proportion of the remuneration per household member does not exceed the basis for the supplement. The worst of all, however, is that both the recipients of social assistance and the recipients of the child supplement and also of the war veteran censorship are significantly lower than the official poverty threshold, which was the basis for our proposal, namely the debt write-off law proposed in the United Left. On our proposal that the actual thresholds of poverty should be taken into account, an objection was made to having social work centres with this administrative problem and to need more staff to check whether they had actually lived in the last 12 months below the poverty threshold. I don't agree to this contract. This law, which we now have before us, leaves out a whole range of socially disadvantaged people who will not be able to pay their bills and will therefore have to receive extraordinary social assistance in the coming months in order to survive. Or it would not be better if instead of giving them extraordinary social assistance, we use these funds, if necessary, to hire some additional people to do these checks at social centres, thereby reducing, for the first time, social assistance spending, secondly, some people would get jobs with the same resources that we are using now, while at the same time reducing the agony of socially disadvantaged people. Therefore, we do not understand why there was no willingness to extend the circle of beneficiaries. The government itself notes that this law will not practically reduce the budget revenue. It is for persons who are largely not taxable and for claims that are virtually irrevocable. The country does not pay any bills by this law and does not subsidize anyone, but merely accelerates the write-off process and reduces the agony of the poorest who can no longer pay the bills. These criteria are said to be why the marriage is so restrictive and how to get close to the starting point we gave in the United Left, we tried to talk to coalition parties this week, but we ran into unanswered e-mails and unanswered phone calls. We have therefore proposed these amendments today in the form of amendments to the Committee and have been rejected. If they were really such populisms as you are declaring us, they would now simply table the amendments at an extraordinary meeting and thus extend the debate on this circus law for 4 hours. But we didn't do it anyway because we don't want to start populism. We want this law simply to set its target and to help those to whom it is directed, the poorest. That's why I'm only going to end up with two more. I am sorry that we have not found an understanding path since January, and we could have come to a solution much earlier, and I am sorry that we now have a rather limited, restrictive form of this law, which is significantly more scrupulous than the one we have given. We'll still support the marriage with our teeth tightened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u119	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u120	Dear Vice-President, distinguished Minister, colleague and colleague! The law on the conditions for the implementation of the debt relief measure is in fact a sad mirror of our Slovenian reality. We Christian Democrats believe that this bill is yet another proof that the current way of managing social policy is not working. He's not and can't be successful. We even hope to say that this is a simple social demagogy. The Ministry sent this incomplete proposal under urgent procedure to the National Assembly only under pressure from one of the opposition parties. The late opportunity for the Ministry and, with all the professional and official apparatus available, the text of the law is incomplete, incomplete, bad. We are asking Christian Democrats whether we need such a law at all, because companies and some municipalities report that write-offs are possible now and are taking place. There is a high risk that the law will result in unequal treatment of citizens in the same or similar situation. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly points out that the draft law does not lay down the criteria to be taken into account by creditors for debt write-off. Christian Democrats in this law, too, believe that the Ministry of the Problem is going on the wrong side. We've been putting out fires, but for the past few years we've been putting out fires, but they don't eliminate the causes of the sad state when poverty in Slovenia continues to grow. On the other hand, Christian Democrats are thinking more in the long term and in particular more comprehensively. We have already mentioned five proposals for measures to improve Slovenia. One of them is a measure that would bring about €50 higher net monthly salary to those with the lowest income. It is unacceptable for us that people who are employed receive such low wages that they cannot survive with dignity. These are the real victims of the current system, which, in our view, is falsely social. We also propose other measures to relieve wages and other benefits. All measures are intended to leave people with net money and at the same time employers will not be burdened. For a good job, one has to get a decent salary. None of us want to ask for social support or subsidies. Christian Democrats call on all parties to step together, critically evaluate our proposals and address the causes of increasing poverty in our country. Nevertheless, Christian Democrats will support the proposed law, as the first, urgent step towards helping the socially weak is the first.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u121	We are done with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the 16th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 5.45 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u122	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of item 1 of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. Seven. 2015, published on the e-club. We decide on the amendment of the parliamentary groups Joint Left and Alliance of Alenka Bratušek to Article 1. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u123	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. As I have pointed out at the meeting several times, either to a state of prosperity or to a social state, or to the fact that all the inhabitants of this country can live with dignity, we will not come automatically with any economic growth, because it does not necessarily bring prosperity to everyone, and these days, due to neoliberal measures, we will not come to the point of waiting for someone to come to this National Assembly and bring a wide range of measures that will solve all the problems of this society at a glance. We'll build a social state piece by piece, step by step, wall by wall. And we're laying one of these walls down today. Today we decide whether to provide all children living below the poverty threshold with free lunch in primary schools. In the United Left, we are pleased that in our first reading, we have unanimously supported the proposed amendment so that all children under the poverty threshold should receive it. In the second reading, we are a little stuck, and we regret that the coalition has adopted an amendment here that will save money for the budget of change and will make it difficult for the children of the second and third grades to get to this lunch because parents will have to pay for it. If we accept the proposed amendment tabled by the United Left and the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek, we will all receive 100% of the subsidy, i.e. what is proposed in the original law if we do not adopt it, and we agree that a single mother who earns €361 per month has to pay for a child's lunch in primary school. Whether she can afford it can be answered by anyone. We are confident that this will significantly limit the number of children who will receive a warm meal at school and, of course, we are proposing or voting ourselves to accept this amendment and to provide all children in primary schools with 100 % of the subsidy for lunches in order to ensure that no one else is hungry in our schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u124	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SD Group of Members, Mr Jan Škoberne.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! What is crucial is that the country provides equal opportunities across the board and that we understand today's bill in a broader context. The government's actions have ensured that unemployment has been declining for months, that labour market activity is increasing, which means that the most important measure – people's employment – is raising the standard and allowing social image to be stable in the Republic of Slovenia. What is extremely important is that with this law, in the event that a single mother earns 360 euros, as a colleague of the moon mentioned before me, she absolutely had lunch free of charge today, because this means that, in the case of a single woman with one child, 180 euros in income per family member. It should therefore be understood that this country is already making a quarter of its gross domestic product available to maintain solidarity, egalitarianism and the social system. This must, of course, be upgraded to ensure equal opportunities and to protect the weakest, and those with the lowest income will be entitled to free lunch after this proposal. Those who receive higher income will be entitled to 70% of the subsidy and those who have even more will receive 40% of the subsidy. Why, because we are putting this measure aside from many of the measures that we want to help citizens and citizens, let this go from the Youth Guarantee, the Entrepreneurship Business to the world of entrepreneurship and, last but not least, the stabilisation of public finances to achieve a lower debt price and allow us to think about many other development projects today. The Social Democrats and our Group will support the Government's proposal for a simple reason, because we need measures to the extent that we can provide them, and once the conditions are met, that we can also extend this measure, we will spread it. What is crucial is that we understand an integrated picture, and the Social Democrats are looking at it in a developmental way, and we are not exempt from the context. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u126	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Alliance of Alenka Bratušek, mag. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u127	Thank you very much. In our parliamentary group, we will also support our joint amendment. But I'm not going to add anything to the explanation, because everything Luke said was so nice.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u128	Please apply for explanations of vote on your own behalf. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u129	Thank you for your word. I have to admit, after those arguments I listened to by the SMC, I had to go drink a drop of Asic's floor. They helped me a little. It's not funny, it's very sad, little farce, very sad. I will vote for this, of course. But frankly, when I listened to Mr Škoberne talk, I wondered which country he was talking about. There's probably a country like that. I also find it difficult to accept how this coalition has helped with the development of the economy, if we, or the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Economy, were to bless you earlier this week. But people aren't stupid. Politicians who make fools of the people will end up where they end up. What's really hurting me here? We go long and wide here ping-pong, with less or more populism, and 15,000 children in this country are definitely starving. If I'm reading some announcements from Mr. Marble next year, I'm a little afraid we'll get worse. Humanity is not a sausage that is cut as long as it exists, but it is obviously the ideological essence of most Members and Members of the current coalition. I'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u130	Explanation of voice in its own name, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u131	Thank you for your word. Given that children are our futures, we should essentially view them as an investment and not an expense if I express myself in the language you like to use. I don't think a progressive scale will change for the poorest. A mother or a family who cannot pay for lunch will also not be able to pay for it if she is granted 40 or 70 %. Then what do you do? It also seems to us that the solution to censorship is much less equitable and administratively more difficult. Social workers will deal with recalculation rather than dealing with real hardships. I expect from the Government that if it turns out that their move was not in place and that despite this move, children will not get a lunch, they will immediately approach the changes and do as we have proposed now. In short, all children under the poverty threshold should have a 100 % subsidy. Other censorships, however, can be discussed at the threshold of poverty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u132	A self-explanation of the vote, Mr Simon Zajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u133	We'd all like to support this amendment. The SDS will support him even though he's from the United Left, and we know how much you love each other. But here's the question, as has already been said on the committee, of priority. What are our priorities? Are our priorities these kids, their lunches, that's 15 million. Maybe our priorities are personal assistants, which will also have to be regulated. I was myself a personal assistant to a lady who was blind and in a wheelchair. This law will cost us 20 to 40 million, depending on how we design it. Is our priority security? Police, fed, as far as personnel are concerned, as far as equipment is concerned. Are they student vouchers? 1.2 million. These are the fiches, I heard from you. But what I've just said is over 60 million, which I've figured out. Of course, we all want to be able to give everyone as much as we want and as much as it would be right. It's just that reality is different. I can't agree to a sentence that now we're going to make things difficult for those who are only going to be subsidized by 70%. Now they paid 100% when they paid 30% and we made their lives difficult. I don't understand that. I will not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u134	A self-explanation of the voice, Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u135	Thank you very much. I have been following politics for years and decades, even though I have only been directly involved in politics for a few years. I followed and wrote my observations all the time. Today I looked at and saw from 15 years ago my article, which is about other things, but about the exact same pattern as now. When it comes to the poor in the National Assembly there are endless problems, we cannot do that, they are priorities. Clearly, the priorities are banks and that's what I know, I'm not gonna talk about. When it comes to something else, however, things are absolutely acceptable without any comment. That's how I got it here. In 2000, there was a speech to fix wages for those who didn't even have a minimum wage, 20,000 of them were, and there was a talk that a hungry stomach could not determine economic policy, that if we followed the hungry, there would be anarchy in the country. At the same time, the National Assembly adopted that without a word, the money for the military would increase to 2.3%. Quiet priorities. The poor will lead the country to anarchy, of course, which is why we need an army to do it. This pattern is that anyone who thinks that it is necessary to help those who need help becomes a demagog, but those who spend money on banks are, of course, development-oriented. I will vote in favour, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u136	A self-explanation of the vote, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u137	Thank you, Mr. President. This time I'm going to allow myself a little pathetic, which is not my custom. In the past days, on the 2nd programme of the Slovenian National Radio, you were able to listen to a piece of the interview, probably the whole interview, with a development psychologist who was doing a study on the impact of poverty and pushing on the social edge on children in a Romanian orphanage. What did she find out? That, in fact, such consequences are also known on a neurological basis, it is said that the brain also changes because of this. But what's more important? Not only for Romania, it is concluded that we also have such children in Slovenia to face such problems, of course, which are long-term and will in 15, 20 or more years actually have consequences for society as well. The coalition, with its amendment to the committee, has in some ways defaced this marriage and, of course, deprived the people or families of the percentages of subsidies that we wanted to grant. Not to give something as a priority and so forth, but to actually get rid of the plight of these people. That's a priority, that should be a priority, not to mention that they've paid 100 so far, but now they're going to be 30 and they're actually getting better. I think it's a minimum and definitely a priority that we should take for our own. Of course, I will vote for myself, and I expect someone else to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u138	An explanation of the voice in his own name, Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u139	Thank you for your word. I will definitely support this amendment. In the United Left we proposed raising the school lunch price from 18% to 36% of the average net salary per person. This figure, that is 36%, was not chosen arbitrarily, it was chosen because the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia refers to this number as the limit below which the threshold of poverty falls. This is also the case in our proposal for a 100 per cent subsidy for all beneficiaries, which is said to be for children from poor families. Then certain parties got a little confused after that. 100% of the subsidies have been cut, disappeared, some different criteria have been introduced, but we still need to be aware that we are talking about people, about families, about children from families that fall under this poverty threshold. And it is totally unacceptable for such families living under this poverty threshold to be denied this 100% subsidy. We have not heard any wise arguments against this proposal in today's debate. The only reason he's hiding in the back here is to spar, spar, spar, on the back and shoulders of the poorest. We have also heard something about priorities that we need to have priorities and priorities are such that some children from poor families must be left in cold, literally without a subsidised hot lunch. To conclude, let me just recall that on July 14 we celebrated the anniversary of the fall of Bastille, which then fell in France because King Ludvik XVI of that time had some other priorities, such as poor crowds, and then put it into the storehouse of history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u140	Any other explanation for the voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 42. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the parliamentary groups United Left, Alliance and New Slovenia to Article 2. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u141	Thank you for your word. When we read economic analyses, everything shows that Slovenia is finally somehow getting out of the crisis. For the fifth quarter in a row, we have economic growth, which is among the highest in the euro area, and our exports are also among the highest in the euro area. For this year, the current forecasts essentially go beyond what they predicted last year, saying they go beyond what the budget was based on. The budget was based on the assumption that we will record two percent growth this year. Now UMAR says we're going to have 2.4% growth. This means that some more money will flow into the budget from this gap 0.4% higher GDP growth. How we will invest these surpluses is a question that will be answered primarily by us, the National Assembly. There used to be a talk about priorities. In the United Left, we believe that it is a priority to address the problem raised by humanitarian organisations, many schools and municipalities, namely that we have hungry children in schools in 2015. That is why we have proposed an amendment to this law, which we have tabled ourselves, but have proposed an amendment to convince Members and Members of Parliament that the law will enter into force as soon as possible with the new school year on 1 September 2015. The arguments that there is no money, for the reasons I mentioned earlier, are not or are not very preventable because it is a rather small resource in terms of calculation. We would need €6 million this year to provide 100 per cent of the subsidy to all children. Given that we have reduced these funds by a third in the previous amendment, we would need a circus of EUR 4 million to enforce this law this year. On behalf of the Group of Members, the United Left in this place is forecasting support for this amendment, but I would be very happy if you chose to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u142	Thank you. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 42. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the second reading of the amendment to the supplementary proposal of the law has not been adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendment adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, I looked around, nobody said anything. We've already voted. We voted unanimously 76 in favour, none against. We've reached a vote at this point. There's no more explanation for the vote. I can give you my word for procedural. Then I won't give you my word for procedural, because you swung your hand. No, you said you didn't need it. So I find that the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Procedurally, Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u143	I can take it that you're making a fool of me, but I'm taking it a lot harder to make a fool out of people. As the first of the same, I ask for some dignity because you've been bothering me with this dignity all day. What is your parliamentary group doing, please! My procedural proposal is that if you are talking about this dignity, you should also introduce a little into your parliamentary group and also deal with Members and Members of the coalition in this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u144	What does this procedural proposal relate to? [[advertising from the hall]] In dignity? Dignity means basically respect for procedures. It's not my fault if you didn't raise your hands in time. I really don't. We continue with the interruption of item 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on the conditions for the implementation of debt relief measures under the urgent procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that due to amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u145	Thank you for saying that again. Here I must say that, on the one hand, in the United Left, we are pleased to have before us the debt relief law, which is very similar to the debt write-off law that we have filed with the United Left or that we started the debate in January. On the other hand, two things grieve us. The first is the unwillingness of the coalition to negotiate, which is also the reason why we do not have the law that we would like. In our debt write-off law, we tried to make this possibility possible for all people in Slovenia who live below the poverty threshold and who have problems with paying bills, so we set very simple criteria. Beneficiaries are all people with net earnings below €593 per month and up to 1. 1. For such or other reasons, 2015 could not meet certain of its obligations. The law before us is much more restrictive and binds beneficiaries to legal status, recipients of social assistance and so on, which means that those who are in the last half year are justified, from 1 January to 30. In June, they received social assistance and their rates must be at least 20 months old or should have fallen to 1. 1. 2015 for at least 12 months. This significantly reduces the thresholds, substantially tightens the criteria, and we are concerned that this law, as we now have before us, will not give effect to its idea, which we have tried to enforce with debt write-offs, that is that all the people living below the poverty threshold will have this opportunity. We have a similar case in Croatia, where the law has proved to be very, very restrictive, just as it is with us and has essentially covered only a few percent of the beneficiaries of those who tried to reach it. We are therefore concerned that this law will be similar, but because we are a party to the opposition and have no better chance of proposing a better law after the coalition has disregarded our proposals, amendments and corrections to this law, we simply have no choice but to support this law. However, I would like to point out before we vote that he is very restrictive and that he may not, or probably will not, achieve his goals because of the limitations that are enshrined in the law, so we will support him with tight teeth.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u146	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Ambassador of the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Saša Tabaković.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u147	Thank you very much. In the SMC Group, we will support the law. As we have already said, the law allows the most socially vulnerable to relieve past debts, leading to improvements in their social situation and social security. Although the law only regulates the tax treatment of individual taxes and transactions in the event of a single write-off of debts arising from regular household expenses, supplementary health insurance and banking services, it is part of a broad range of measures that constitute the basis of solidarity and the participation of all stakeholders. Potential individuals who will be entitled to debt relief under the new law are about 100,000 This means 100,000 citizens, and this is not a small one. If all or all of the members of the delegation agree in principle with the Ministry's gesture, it is unlikely that it is inappropriate to reduce its importance with various political rhetoric. We'll support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u148	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Ambassador of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u149	Thank you for your word. We will support the proposal for a law on the conditions for the implementation of debt relief measures in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. However, it is particularly important in this law that there has been a social agreement, namely between companies, between the Government and those who will also try to make use of the legal provisions we have in this law in order to alleviate their social distress due to debt relief. The number we're talking about is really impressive. We expect that there will be 100,000 such beneficiaries, but we are warning today that there are 410 thousand who may fall into the position of these 100,000 at the door. It is imperative that measures be taken in the future to prevent the deterioration of the situation of people and thus the adoption of similar laws in Parliament. I think that, or at least should be the goal, if we are talking about the social agreement of everyone, both the economy, politics and every individual, to raise the well-being of people in Slovenia, and that this economic growth that we are recording in Slovenia comes to people. This is the only way that 410 thousand people will not be in a situation similar to that of 100,000 today. To alleviate the situation now, 100,000 people, because it is a single measure, we will, as I have said, support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-17-SDZ7-Izredna-16.ana.u150	There's no more explanation. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I have three notifications. First. I would like to inform you, Sir, that in 15 minutes, the first meeting of the European Union Affairs Committee will be held in the Grand Salon. The extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy will be held on Monday at 8 a.m. in the Grand Chamber of Tomšič. It will also be the next extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on Monday at 12 p.m. I hereby conclude the 16th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you and goodbye.
