ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 13th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Jana Jenko, Mrs. Susana Lepi Šimenko, Mrs. Erika Dekleva by 1:00 p.m., Dr. Milan Brglez, Dr. Mitja Horvat, Dr. Vinko Gorenak from 13:00 p.m., mag. Bojan Krajnc from 16:00 on, Mr. Saša Tabaković, mag. Ange Logar and Mr Andrej Chuš. I say hello to everyone who's here! Before we move on to agenda 34, I will briefly address the National Assembly. Dear Members, honourable Members! Allow me to remind all of you, or all of us, that we are celebrating a state holiday today, Rudolph Maister's day. The festival is dedicated to a man who has entered Slovenian history as a fighter for the northern border, as the first Slovenian general as well as as as a great patriot of the national awakener and poet. After the first world war and the fall of Austro-Hungarianism, we found ourselves in the middle of a turbulent post-war event. Aware of our differences and identity, we have begun to set up our national and political home, which would be significantly different without the intervention of the great man, General Rudolf Maister. After the announcement of the accession of Maribor and its surroundings to Austria at the end of October 1918, Rudolf Maister strongly protested. And his protest was not just about words. Together with more than 4 thousand equally thinking soldiers and officers, he established the Slovenian army, which on 23 November 1918 the Slovenian national border area in Styria returned forever to the Slovenian hands. In this he established the Slovenian national border, as he had previously anchored by Bishop Anton Martin Slomšek 60 years ago with the transfer of the bishop's seat from the far side of Šentandraj to Maribor. With this victory, General Maistre's historic work did not end, as he continued his mission in Koroška. Your Honor! Rudolf Maister was therefore one of the few Slovenians who did not merely think about it, but also acted and acted in a state-of-the-art way. In doing so, it was always guided by a deep national consciousness, a commitment to the Slovenian nation, a Slovenian home and a love for the Slovenian land. With the holiday that we are celebrating today, the state of Slovenia has shown this truly great son of Slovenian homeland the final recognition of his credits for the preservation and protection of Slovenian territory, for his contribution to the design of the Slovenian state. Rudolph Master – honor and glory, and to you, respected citizens and citizens, sincere congratulations on the national holiday! We're moving to 34. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the minimum wage law within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by 5,000 voters and voters. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Magi applicants. Andrei Poje.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u2	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, Honourable Minister of Labour, all present! Allow me to present to you, on behalf of all seven representative trade union centres, a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Minimum Wages Act, which has been tabled with the support of 11 000 206 certified signatures of voters and voters. The amendment of the Act amends Article 2 of the Minimum Wage Act, which defines the right to minimum wage and its definition. In Article 2, a new, third paragraph is added, which amends the definition of minimum wage and clearly specifies that they are not included in the minimum wage: night work allowance, Sunday work allowance and holiday work allowance and working days after the law. The proposed amendment will establish the principle that workers, minimum wage recipients, a recognised and paid allowance for night, Sunday and holiday work should be added to the gross minimum wage in addition to the overtime. Today will be a big day for workers, recipients of minimum wages, as the adoption of the law after 20 years will eliminate the unequal treatment of workers who do their jobs in bad working hours, i.e. at night, on Sundays and on days off after the law, and who now receive the same payment as those workers who do not perform under these conditions. According to the current definition of minimum wage, all, regardless of the conditions under which they work, receive the same payment, i.e. 790.73 euros gross. Equal treatment of employees within the same company will also be eliminated. For today, an allowance is recognised and paid for work in bad working hours in accordance with Article 128 of the Labour Relations Act only to those employees whose salaries exceed the minimum wage. In the proposal for amendments to the law, we followed the definition of the minimum wage from which the overtime allowance has already been exempted and supplemented it with the other three supplements belonging to workers in specific working conditions resulting from the allocation of working hours in accordance with Article 128 of the Labour Relations Act. By implementing this amendment, Slovenia will at least partially approach the regulation in the other European Union countries and the decisions of the European Court of Justice, which has already stated several times in the past that the minimum wage must be paid for regular work and the allowances must be exempt from the minimum wage and added to the minimum wage. This amendment of the law will eliminate the injustice for the most vulnerable employees in the Slovenian labour market, for those who work all month working in bad working hours and difficult working conditions, often when we stay home with their families, and for their work they earn so little that they have to look for help on the Red Cross and Karitas. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! On behalf of all seven trade unions, I thank you for your understanding and support in changing the definition of minimum wage, as this is so difficult to expect a change made by the amended Minimum Wage Act to make life easier for workers and at least partially eliminate the unequal treatment of employees of the minimum wage recipients. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Vice-President, Mr Uroš Pikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear representatives of the Government, distinguished representatives of the applicants, colleagues and colleagues! At its 18th meeting, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Minimum Wages, submitted by a group of over 5,000 voters and voters to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption. On the basis of the request of the Group of Members to hold a general debate on the draft law, the National Assembly shall hold its 11th regular session 25. 9. This debate also took place and adopted the conclusion that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Minimum Wages Act is appropriate for further consideration. In addition to the candidates, representatives of the Government and the interested public also participated in the work of the Committee. The bill was examined in terms of its consistency with the Constitution, the legal system and, from a legislative and technical point of view, also by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and made concrete proposals which were also taken into account through the amendments adopted. In its opinion, the government does not oppose the bill, even more, support the proposed amendments and complement the minimum wage arrangements. It was pointed out that the question of the definition and the level of minimum wage should be pursued for constructive and social dialogue and the broadest possible consensus of the social partners. In this way, it is necessary to approach the integrated system regulation of that area in the future, while at the same time regulating labour costs and measures in the field of taxes and social security contributions. In the case of systemic action, it is important to link wage policy with the restructuring of the burden of public duties, with the aim of, inter alia, a meaningful reduction in the burden of labour income. In the debate itself, the representative shall be the Magi's proposers. Andreja Poje presented the key objectives of the bill, which seeks to ensure more appropriate legal arrangements for minimum wages in the law. The law follows the principle that workers, minimum wage recipients must also be recognised and paid an allowance for night work, Sunday work and holiday work, which should be added to the gross minimum wage in addition to overtime. This creates a more equitable treatment of workers who receive minimum wages and who do their work during unfavourable working hours, i.e. at night, on Sundays, on holidays and work free days after marriage, in view of those workers who also receive minimum wage, but do not perform their work at such an unfavourable time. The representative of the Government presented the opinion and said that the government was of course in favour of the bill, as the proposed definition of the minimum wage, which excludes the night work allowance, for work on Sundays and work on holidays and works on holidays, is fair. She pointed out, however, that certain incorrect allegations were made to raise the minimum wage. Once again, it was exposed to redefinition. In the debate that took place on the Committee itself, some discussers in particular expressed the view that this unfair, unilateral and non-coordinated input of draft laws into the legislative procedure could have a negative impact on social dialogue, as it violates the principles of its functioning. According to the representatives of the proposer of the bill, these are trade unions, by introducing that bill into the legislative procedure, no substance of the existing social agreement has been breached, since the topic of minimum wage during the negotiations in the social agreement due to the inability to reach agreement on this subject has been agreed upon in its content. Furthermore, and in the conclusion of the debate itself, the members and members of the Committee pointed out that the minimum wage is not only a social category but also an economic one, and it affects the material position of the individual, consumption and dignity of the work. In the debate on the most vulnerable groups receiving minimum wages, which have no immediate impact on economic growth, some have also highlighted the need for measures to increase consumption and strengthen the middle class. At the conclusion of the meeting, the Committee adopted amendments to the coalition's parliamentary groups. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is also an integral part of the report you have received. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u5	Thank you very much. To explain my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Dr Anji Kopač Mrak, Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members, representative of the billmaker! The question of the definition of minimum wage has been at the forefront of social dialogue since the adoption of the Minimum Wage Act in the 1990s. Also in 2010, when the minimum wage was raised by more than 20%, the question of the definition of minimum wage was also on the table, but unfortunately the agreement on the amendment could not be reached. The current definition of minimum wage, except for Croatia, represents and is unique to Europe, as the basic amount also includes allowances for work under special working conditions. The bill now before you excludes these supplements. It excludes night work allowance, work on Sundays and work on holidays and work off days after marriage. Such an arrangement before you is certainly fairer to the recipients of the minimum wage, since these will now be placed in the same position as other workers. The Government is aware that the minimum wage is key to ensuring decent work and regrets, on the other hand, that the amendment has not been agreed upon and adopted in agreement with the social partners. In the Social Agreement, the government committed itself to restructuring the tax burdens with the aim of reducing the burden of labour. This mission is ahead of the government. In a constructive social dialogue, it will therefore be necessary to find a common solution to ensure minimum wage levels as a basis for wage policy and work dignity and, on the other hand, in terms of labour costs as an element of the competitiveness of our economy. I would like the dialogue on this to go towards finding the conditions for ensuring a higher added value to our economy and move away from the minimum wage, which is one of the key elements of the competitiveness of our economy. Human capital is an important asset to be invested in. The minimum wage is the substance under which it is right that workers are not paid. The government has mentioned this amendment to the law that it supports in front of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Since the National Assembly held a general debate on the draft law at its 11th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow, 24 November, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. I'm breaking the 34th item of the agenda. We're moving to 28. On the day-to-day basis, this is to the contrary a proposal for a law on amendments to and additions to the transport laws in road transport after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Klemna Grebenska, State Secretary, Ministry of Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members! The Ministry of Infrastructure is responsible for the provision and organisation of the public service of public passenger transport in internal road transport as a public passenger traffic operator. The existing public service for bus and coach transport of passengers shall be carried out on the basis of 35 concessions awarded to bus operators up to 31. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. For the purposes of extending existing concessions, the Ministry of Transport has acceded to the regulation of legal grounds for extending existing concessions, but no later than 2. 12. 2019. In addition to that essential reason for amending the law, the proposal for a new law also includes a set of amendments aimed at increasing the effectiveness of the implementation of the current law and ensuring adequate control over the implementation of concessions and other modes of transport, such as subsidisation and specific line, permanent out-of-line and occasional transport. Since an unbalanced supply of passenger public line transport has been established in the last 15 years by removing public passenger lines, it is essential that the area of integrated transport be integrated in the area of combining and optimising transport and financial resources by amending existing legislation. The proposal for amendments and the amendment of the law therefore introduces the term 'integrated line' and 'transport to call' and regulates the legal basis for the electronic connectivity of records and registers maintained by the Ministry of Transport and legal entities involved in the system of financing integral lines. Due to the indeterminability of the sectoral legislation, a specific set of amendments to the law is designed to prohibit cabotage for vehicles 8 plus 1 and less and to increase the effectiveness of the distribution of permits for the international carriage of goods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Danil Anton Rance, Vice-President.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u10	Mr Primož Hainz, Honourable Secretary of State of Mag. Klemen Grebenšek, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is held at its 14th session. Ten. 2015 as a parent working body, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Transport Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. On behalf of the applicant, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure shall be Mag. Klemen Grebenšek stressed that the Ministry of Infrastructure, as a public passenger traffic manager, is responsible for ensuring the organisation of public economic services for the public line transport of passengers in inland road transport. In view of the fact that existing concessions are to expire at the end of this year on the basis of which the economic public service for the carriage of passengers is to be carried out, the applicant prepared a proposal for a law extending existing concessions to no later than 2. 12. 2019. In addition to this solution, the proposal includes a set of amendments aimed at enhancing the effectiveness of the implementation of the applicable law and ensuring adequate supervision of the implementation of the economic public passenger transport service and certain other modes of transport. He pointed out that, in the last 15 years, the abolition of public passenger transport lines has created an unbalanced supply of passenger public line transport and it is therefore essential that the area of integrated transport be integrated in the area of combining and optimising transport and financial resources by amending existing legislation. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, Mira Palhaltinger, pointed out that the Legislative and Legal Service had examined the proposal of the law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative technical aspects, and had made certain comments to individual articles, which were largely duly taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition groups, and the other comments were made by the applicant in writing. The President of the Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, Jernej Verbic, stressed that the Commission supports the proposal for a law. He pointed out that the main part of the discussion at the time of the consideration of the draft law took place on the content of Article 8 of the draft law, which provided that the driver must have a transport contract or the possibility of his/her discharge when carrying out the occasional carriage of passengers while driving in the vehicle. He pointed out that, in relation to this solution, the representative of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry stressed that they supported the proposed solution in the amended Article 55, on the basis of which the carrier at the premises of the company would have to keep the contract between it and the contracting entity two years after the occasional transport carried out. However, they are opposed to the provision that the contract must be in the vehicle while driving, as they consider it to be a completely non-life requirement which will be difficult to meet in practice. In this connection, he welcomed the amendment of the amendment to Article 8 to the amendment of the Committee, following the comments made by the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise. Without discussion, the Committee adopted the amendments to Article 16a and Article 16b by the Modern Centre, Desus and SD to Articles 1, 4, 5, 14, 15, 16, 17, 22, 23, 26, 28, 32, 36, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49 and 50. On the basis of Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee also adopted three of its amendments, namely Articles 8 and 41, and Articles 16a and 16b. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee then voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jan Škoberne will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u12	Dear Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law primarily extends concessions for the implementation of the public passenger economic service which have been granted in accordance with the law, since 31. 12. In 2015, existing concessions for the implementation of the public passenger economic service will expire. Since this is an urgent matter, it is therefore reasonable to adopt the law on an urgent basis, although it is necessary to express a certain degree of disappointment that such legislation, which is more extensive than merely extending concessions, is not adopted on a regular basis and with more discussion, which would also address current global trends and innovation in the field of the organisation and implementation of road transport. Nevertheless, the Social Democrats understand the circumstances of the necessity of adopting this law, and we expect this kind of debate to continue or continue in the future. In addition to extending concessions, the law also defines certain types of transport, such as integrated transport, subsidised transport, special line transport and call services. It further regulates the legal basis for the electronic connectivity of records and registers maintained by the Ministry of Transport and legal entities involved in the system of financing integrated lines. In this way, the novelty also provides conditions for the creation of a high-quality register of passenger transport data. The novel also provides legal grounds for enhancing the effectiveness of the implementation of the law and ensuring adequate control over the implementation of the public passenger economic service and other transport services. Since the amendment of the law to certain changes, despite still ensuring the achievement of the basic objective of public passenger economic service, this is the accessibility of all places, not just financially viable relations, we will support the Social Democrats' proposal for a new law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Dr. Franc Trček will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, chairman. A respected choir! We cannot support the bill in the United Left Group. Part of the reason for our non-support is unfortunately again of a nomotechnological nature. The number of articles of the novel exceeds once again a third of the number of articles of the basic law. In view of the extremely poor nomological implementation of the bill and of the comments of the Legal and Legislative Service, the Government has amended the bill in half of its articles to be unrecognizable, as the rapporteur has said in part. However, in the light of the changes envisaged by the novels, it is certainly inappropriate to treat it under reduced procedure. There is also a problem with the lack of coordination in one of the key articles of the novel, which limits the right at law level to subsidise a monthly ticket. The Novela was only coordinated with the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, and this was only partly, but not, for example, with the student, student and youth organisations, which are significantly affected by the changes. As the Government has itself pointed out, one of the aims of the novel is to save around three million on budget lines aimed at implementing subsidised transport of students and students and the implementation of the economic public service. In 2014, around €63 million was earmarked for this purpose, and in this year and in the next two years only €60. The Government's tightening of these conditions needs to be understood in the broader context of austerity measures, and in particular in the context of the current very open strategy of this government, which temporary measures are trying to make permanent. In the United Left Group, we call on the coalition to finally start the debate on what kind of social state we want in Slovenia. This debate, of course, must not be limited to a narrow accounting-budget view. We also need to open the question. what public passenger transport we need in Slovenia. Based on the fact that there has been growing between and within regional differences, and increasingly poorer networks, especially in cross-border passenger transport, we are in favour of quality integrated public passenger transport in the United Left, which will also take account of the mobility of socially disadvantaged groups of people. A quality and cost-effective and time-optimal public passenger transport organisation is one of the most essential if you also want the social infrastructure of modern companies, including free transport for the most vulnerable social groups. So not only for students and students, but also for other young people, disabled people, unemployed people, pensioners and employees who live below the poverty risk threshold. Such an infrastructure development policy, both the United Left and the 21st century companies, who think of their own development. To begin with, the coalition will have to open a public substantive debate on its proposals for laws, as this is the only way to achieve quality regulation. As I said at the outset, the United Left will not support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u16	Dear Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The current concessions for the implementation of the economic public service shall expire at the end of this year. The mere extension of concessions without amending the legal rules with a view to optimizing transport and financial resources may be pointless. However, this cannot be the reason why the Government introduces a number of changes through this short-term procedure in addition to the extension. This is a change of more than a third of the articles of the basic law. This makes the law opaque, which is also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. In doing so, the main purpose of the applicant is to obtain concessions on time and until 2 December 2019, when the deadline is reached in accordance with the European Regulation. At that time, however, they should prepare everything necessary for the implementation of the tender for the award of concessions. Look, our country has been preparing for this invitation to tender for quite some time. For several years, the project of an integrated public passenger transport system aims to connect rail and bus transport. Now we will have an additional four years at our disposal, and in Novi Slovenija we are probably rightly asking whether we will be able to perform this task within four years. The area of integrated transport needs to be fully regulated, in particular due to the unbalanced supply of public line passenger transport, which is very poorly covered in some areas, particularly in the rural area where public passenger transport is not properly organised. The New Testament, however, brings a welcome addition. It's a so-called caller. The municipalities are most aware of the situation or needs of citizens after transport from remote places where public passenger transport is not established in the context of the economic public service of public line passenger transport in inland road transport. Some congregations have repeatedly highlighted their interest in the organisation and implementation of these transports and will actually get this opportunity through today’s amendment of the law. By granting a concession to carry out transport on call or in the framework of the implementation of the local economic service, they will be able to provide transport to their citizens to the nearest point of transit of public passenger transport. Of course, we cannot go beyond the question of who will provide financial resources for these transports. It is an obligation of the municipalities, and we know whether the transfer of this power to the municipalities means the transfer of State competence to the original circuit of the municipalities or merely the so-called delegation of jurisdiction. It is also a question of whether it is not simply a matter of laying obligations on the shoulders of the congregations that will be pleased to carry out these transports, but the main question here is – whose account? Once again, the main issue is financial resources. We talked a lot about them at this regular meeting of the National Assembly this week. Regrettably, without success for congregations whose country cuts smaller pieces of bread from year to year. In New Slovenia, we will support the proposed amendment to the Road Transport Act, but we expect the Government to be able to prepare a sufficient legal basis for the introduction of integrated transport services during this extended period.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Marjan Dolinšek will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u18	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the Parliamentary Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Transport Act. In 2004, concessions for the provision and organisation of a public economic service for the public line transport of passengers in inland road transport were awarded to existing carriers on the lines they carried out at the time, without a call for tender. The current concessions expire at the end of this year and therefore the 2004 extension model of concession contracts should be discontinued in order to grant new concession contracts on the basis of a public tender. Until the award of concessions, which is until 2 December 2019, a legal basis should also be laid down for the introduction of integrated transport services and related legal acts and regulations. The proposal for amendments and the addition of the Road Transport Act bring a number of innovations and benefits to the end-user of services. Among other things, it regulates the legal basis for the electronic connectivity of records and registries, introduces the term 'integrated line' and 'transport to call', provides conditions for the establishment of a high-quality data record on the specific line transport of passengers, and defines the conditions to be met in order to enable passenger transport to be carried out in the context of a special line transport. Due to the poor supply of public passenger connections to airport transport services, the purpose and the need for continuous out-of-way transport are further defined. In areas where there is no possibility to carry out public line transport, it is possible to transport passenger by accident. In order to facilitate the decision on the investor's right to subsidised transport, the criteria on the application of investor status will be uniform. The applicant's status is appropriately aligned with the criteria of the Ministry of Education and its records of enrolled students, students and participants in adult education. The bill will also ensure greater effectiveness in the implementation of the law and adequate supervision of the implementation of the economic public service in the field of public passenger transport and other transport. The proposal for amendments also includes the alignment of national conditions for the fulfilment of good reputation for obtaining a licence to carry out the carriage of passengers and goods in inland road transport with the conditions laid down in international road transport. The draft law has a positive impact on the functioning of local communities as it gives them the opportunity to influence the provision of appropriate public passenger transport standards in their area. A key reason for our support for the bill is the establishment of legal bases for the implementation of integrated transport services, including the optimization and control of transport efficiency and costs. This is one of the commitments under the Coalition Treaty to improve the mobility of the population, increase accessibility and competitiveness of public passenger transport. The proposer duly aligned the draft law with the stakeholders and the Chamber of Commerce and Economics of Slovenia. The proposal for a law with amendments to the coalition is also supplemented by proposals by the Legal and Legislative Service. It is also supported by the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u20	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! At the end of this year, existing concessions for the implementation of the public passenger economic service are due to expire in a good month. The proposer shall come by submission at the last moment, following an urgent procedure. This has become the standard practice of this government, since most of the open cases are being resolved just before the legal deadlines have passed. Since there is no regular procedure, this prevents or partially avoids a wider, both professional and other public participation and the preparation of legislation itself, which of course is not good. The proposed law renews concessions for the implementation of the economic public passenger transport service and further defines individual modes of transport, such as integrated transport, subsidised transport, special line transport, calling services, and regulates the legal basis for the electronic connectivity of records and registers maintained by the Ministry of Transport. On the home working body for infrastructure, environment and space, it was pointed out that the carrier must have an additional document in the vehicle, namely a transport contract. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we stress the need to exercise more effective control during transport, as there is a lot of unfair competition. In doing so, it is necessary to avoid further bureaucratic proceedings with the introduction of some new documents. We therefore propose that amendments be adopted by the parent working committee because it reduces bureaucratic procedures and is in practice easier to use. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not oppose the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Transport Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u22	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State with co-workers, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to say at the outset of the presentation of the position of the Desus Group that we will support the proposal for the amendment of the Road Transport Act. The Ministry of Infrastructure shall be responsible for the provision and organisation of the public economic service for the public transport of passengers in inland road transport as a public passenger traffic operator. Therefore, the Ministry must ensure that the economic public service is carried out smoothly even after the end of this year when the existing concessions of passenger public line operators expire. In order to ensure this, however, an appropriate legal basis must be regulated, which is also the subject of this amendment, as the proposed solutions to the existing concessions extend until 2 December 2019 at the latest. The proposal also includes a set of amendments aimed at increasing the effectiveness of the implementation of the applicable law and ensuring adequate control over the performance of the economic public service, public passenger transport and certain other modes of transport. It should be pointed out that, in the last 15 years, the abolition of public passenger transport lines has created an unbalanced supply of public passenger line transport. Therefore, in the Desus Group, we agree with the proposaler's assessment that it is essential that the area of integrated transport be integrated in the area of combining and optimising transport and financial resources by amending existing legislation. To this end, the proposal introduces the term "integrated line" and "transport to call" and regulates the public basis for electronic connectivity of records and registers maintained by the competent ministry and legal entities involved in the system of financing integrated lines. Due to the inadequacy of the sectoral legislation, a specific set of amendments is also intended to prohibit cabotage for vehicles with a maximum of 8 seats in addition to the driver's seat and to increase the effectiveness of the distribution of licences for the international carriage of goods. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we also support solutions that coordinate the criteria of the Ministry of Education responsible for determining the status of the investor and the ministry responsible for transport which decides on the right of the investor under the status of the investor. This harmonisation will prevent a number of abuses of student and student status that have taken place in the past, as it will prevent the issue of a subsidised ticket to investors who do not have an appropriate status. In the Desus Group, we are particularly pleased that the Ministry has collaborated with stakeholders in the drafting of the law, resulting in the preparation and adoption of amendments on the home working body, which were due mainly to coordination with the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia and some carriers. Finally, let me mention the fact that the proposal for a law has positive financial implications for the state budget and other public funds and has a positive impact on the functioning of local communities as it enables them to influence the provision of an appropriate level of public passenger transport standard in the local community. As I have already announced in the introduction, Members and Members of the Democratic Party of Slovenian pensioners will support the amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow, 24 November, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. With this, I interrupt the 28th item of the agenda. We're moving to 33. At the end of the day, this is, on the other hand, a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the bookkeeping law within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Juliani Bizjak Mlakar, Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u24	Dear Presidents, Members and Members and other Members present! The proposal for a novel law on librarianism amends the law adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in autumn 2001. Since the entry into force of the applicable library law, some shortcomings have been demonstrated in its implementation, mainly due to the need to bring the legal provisions into line with other legal provisions, to adapt them to the changed situation and to the requirements for simplification of certain administrative procedures. The proposal for a new law therefore entails urgent changes aimed at remedying the irregularities found and improving library activity as a public service. As part of the drafting process for the amendment, a number of expert discussions were held with most stakeholders affected by the urgent changes. The draft law was prepared on the basis of guidelines endorsed by the National Council for Librarian Activities. The preparation of the law took years. The broad public debate on the proposal for a new law, which took place since 2013, included the majority of stakeholders. In line with the comments adopted, the special expert committee drafted the amended text which was made public by the Ministry of Culture in January 2014. They were included in the debate with a direct invitation to submit comments and to submit an opinion, both to NGOs, representatives of the public concerned, representatives of the professional public and to the association of municipalities. The Ministry presented the text of the amendments and the amendment of the law in 2014 also in a number of public debates and in expert consultations. In order to clarify the proposals put forward, representatives of the Ministry have met with a number of stakeholders or their representatives to formulate as best as possible a proposal for a text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Librarianism. In 2015, on the basis of initiatives from a broad public debate, the Ministry of Culture drafted a revised proposal for a text of the law and re-examined it, which took place from 6 May to 5 June. I am pleased that, following the long-term coordination and the search for solutions in the interests of the profession and other interested public, we have managed to reconcile the contents of the novel with stakeholders to the extent that professional solutions are taken into account to improve the work of libraries in the public service, and we have also met all the legal requirements where the shortcomings of the applicable law have been observed. I would like to thank you for the joint effort that has made it possible to draw up an even better law, to which Members, in particular members of the Committee on Culture and the two legislative services, both the Government and the National Assembly, have certainly contributed. The proposal for a new law follows the requirements of the 2011 Constitutional Court and eliminates any irregularities found with regard to mutual cataloging licences. In line with the opinion of the Ministry of Public Administration of 30 March 2015, the proposal for a new law is governed by a lack of legal basis for the provision of library compensation and work scholarships. The proposal for a new law aligns the provisions on the collection of personal data by users of libraries with the Personal Data Protection Act. It also coordinates the provisions for the implementation of library activities for those libraries that do not carry out library activities as library public services, but rather as a public service in other areas: education, science, culture, and the system applicable to the provision of public services in areas where they operate. In addition, the proposal for the amendment also coordinates the provisions on offences with the Offences Act and takes into account the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of 14. Ten. 2010 concerning the procedure for adopting the financial plans of indirect users which fall within their competence in order to define the deadlines for the adoption of the financial plans and provide for the approval of the financial plan of the indirect user to be issued by the competent minister or minister and no longer by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for the amendment of the law brings some other changes to the law, which we refer to in the accompanying texts. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Culture to be the working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u26	Dear President, Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! At its 7th regular meeting on 4 November 2015 and on 5 November 2015 below, the Committee on Culture considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Librarianism submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration. On 15 October 2015, on the basis of Rule 46 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee held a public presentation of opinions aimed at obtaining opinions and views on the draft law. In the light of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects, the proposed law has been examined and commented on by the Legislative and Legal Service. Her representative explained that there was still room for improvement in the law and, unfortunately, that the amendment was limited to articles that were changing. She also pointed out that the law should make it clear and that the explanation supported by the grounds behind the concept pursued by the law, since the appropriateness of the implementation of the concept in further legal provisions depended on it. The Commission of the State Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport, which supported the proposal of the law, also gave its opinion. Her representative, inter alia, drew attention to the inadequacy of Article 20 of the novel, in particular as regards the definition of the term of library compensation and work grants, the way in which public grants are granted to grant work grants on the basis of library compensation, the conditions for managing and deciding on the allocation of work scholarships to be granted by companies, the procedural criteria for the choice of society and the level of library compensation and the basis for its calculation. During the course of business, the amendments were tabled by SMC, Desus and SD and the New Slovenia Group of Members. The discussion focused on library compensation and work scholarships. Some discussers felt that Article 20 of the novel clearly and definitively defined the content of the library fee and the work scholarships and defined the priority to which they should be allocated. In this context, the criteria or conditions for their allocation, the beneficiaries of the decision-making procedure and the appellate bodies shall also be laid down. By the representative of the Slovenian Writers Association, however, three derogations were noted between the harmonised amendment and the formal amendments tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups. He considered that the adoption of the amendment would allow non-professional consideration of the quality of the originality criteria so that the definition of the library compensation would be timeless and arbitrary and the financing of the library compensation would be unstable. Slovenian illustrators, photographers and composers from the estate and the world will be deprived of the right to library compensation. For that reason, the amendment for the amendment of the Committee was proposed by the New Slovenia Group and was not adopted at the end. The Ministry explained that the letter from the Slovenian Writers' Association listed new proposals that had not yet been determined in accordance with the adopted budget during the coordination of the bill's proposal, that the volume of the funds for the library compensation had not yet been established in a given year and that the diction of the normative file of personal names did not fall within the law, since otherwise it might have caused difficulties in implementing the law. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u27	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Ms Violeta Tomić will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! In the United Left, we will not support the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Librarianism. Not only because it does not provide the necessary changes in the field of librarianism and because the changes will have potentially negative effects, but also because of the way in which legislation is created. Already in the previous Law on Culture, the Law on Audiovisual Services, we have pointed out that such a process of law-writing shows that it is not only neoliberal tightening of the belt that is to blame for today's increasingly ployal state in culture. At the last minute, we got 14 pages of the coalition amendments on the table. The marriage was written in a new way. Cultural policies and measures cannot be successful if they are prepared in the way this law and the previous ones are prepared. Otherwise, the new law on librarianism is also problematic from a substantive point of view. As a result of austerity measures at the average for municipalities, we receive a different method of training for the library exam and deregulation of the conditions for authorisation for mutual categorisation and a modified method of determining whether the conditions for carrying out the library activity are met as public service. It's not about removing administrative barriers, it's about sharpening the position of employees. In the profession of librarian and librarian, a new qualification of basic library content of 20 credit points will be required. How will the employees get these 20 points? This will have to be carried out by accredited institutions, but it is likely to be paying programmes, although the library exam should provide the librarian with all the expertise required to carry out this profession. At the same time other types of education are desirable in certain libraries, such as higher education libraries. In any case, employees gain professional know-how. One of the key points of the law is the library compensation. The fact is, it is not easy to allocate these funds. The interests are enormous, and of course they are understandable and legitimate. However, the legislator's task is not to ensure the interests of individual structures. The drafter of laws must be in dialogue with civil society, but Parliament should, from a general position, guarantee social justice and exercise general interest. A library compensation should be arranged fairly, taking into account both the social dimension and the creative or cultural and developmental dimension. And of course fair, according to different areas: beauty, science, translation, illustration, photography and so on. A potential example could be an arrangement in Denmark where individual genres are specifically weighed down and thus try to go beyond the logic of a large number of loans, but we did not discuss this on the committee for a second. We should pay special attention to the law because it is as important an area as librarianism. Libraries are treasures. They have an extremely important educational, research, humanistic, informational, scientific, educational, cultural and so on role. Libraries are the basis of civil progress and their development, accessibility and attendance are an important indicator of cultural maturity and social development. However, once again the changes do not address the necessary aspects, they are not of a systemic nature, which has also been highlighted in the debate on the Committee, so we cannot support the law in the United Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Ms Ljudmila Novak will present the position of the Group of Christian Democrats of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u30	Your Honor! The contents of the Library Act are difficult for laymen, even though they touch all of us. All users of libraries want quality library services. The applicants state that the proposal should address the irregularities identified, improve the library activity and ensure greater expertise and better competence of professional workers performing the library public service. All this with amendments to the provisions relating to the conditions for the conduct of the library activity, the type of formal education required and the amended provisions for the library exam. The law is also intended to remove administrative obstacles in identifying and ensuring the competence of professional librarians for mutual cataloging. Christian Democrats regret that after three years of coordination and finding a solution, the bill does not fully meet the needs of today's library activity. Marriage should always be a few steps ahead of the actual state of the library, and obviously not. What we have seen at the meeting of the parental committee is that no one is really happy about these changes. New Slovenia – Christian Democrats in agreement with the Association of Writers of Slovenia and some other companies have tabled an amendment to the 20th and 30th articles of the bill proposing a more precise definition of library compensation and work scholarships and a shorter three-month deadline for the preparation of sub-legislative acts in respect of those areas. Unfortunately, the ministry has not been prepared to listen to these proposals, which, in our opinion, is not a good passenger in law. Libraries should, in our view, be advanced and a source of new knowledge. All users must be allowed to expand their horizons and to spend quality free time. In this light, Christian Democrats call on the Minister to immediately after the adoption of these additions and amendments to approach the preparation of a new, modern law that will fully and transparently regulate the field of librarianism. Members of New Slovenia will support the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Ms Anita Koleša will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u32	Dear Vice-President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! Today we are considering the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Librarianism, and the fact is that the law currently in force adopted in 2001 contains plenty of inconsistencies and shortcomings. Librarian activity developed over the years. Rapid technological development, an up-to-date information offer and the more demanding needs of library users urgently require adjustments and legal changes. We were also reminded by the representatives of the professional public at the public presentation of the opinions prepared by the Committee on Culture at the proposal of the Modern Centre Party. The main solutions to the bill are to improve library activities and to ensure greater expertise and competence of professionals in the librarian public service. In doing so, the provisions for the library examination and the definition of the required training for the performance of the activity shall be amended. The amendments also touch on simplifying and optimising the procedures for determining the conditions for the conduct of library activities as a public service with the main objectives: maintaining the uniformity of the library system, improving the conditions of operation and maintaining the financing of library activities. However, with all the solutions proposed for the preparation of optimum legal content, much effort has been made in the provision of library compensation and work scholarships. At this point, we have tried to harmonise different opinions and requirements concerning, in particular, the award criteria for beneficiaries of compensation, the appellate body and the decision-making procedures on the right to compensation. In particular, we have taken into account the legitimate requirements of the profession that the law on library compensation should follow the criterion of quality originality. In doing so, we have called on all stakeholders in the proceedings to participate in the drafting of the content of the Regulation, which will allow the holder of the public authority to make quality decisions on rights. This decision is not the substance of the law, which is why we have not discussed this in more detail in the Committee on Culture. Despite certain disagreements that have occurred, however, we believe that, with the adoption of the amendment to the Article on library compensation, we have optimally aligned this Article. We support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Librarianism in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. However, we would like to point out that the legal area of librarianism needs to be pursued again in the near future. The proposal that we are adopting today changes the content in 34 articles, which is insufficient for the comprehensive regulation of librarian activity, as required by time and profession, and too much for the amendment of the law to be a duly transparent law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Podkrodšek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u34	Dear Vice-President, Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! Today we are considering the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Librarianism. The proposal for a new law removes irregularities with regard to mutual cataloging licences, library information services and the national library should allow the application of the rules of the library profession in accordance with legal powers. On the basis of the comments of the Ministry of Public Administration, the amendment includes the missing legal basis for the provision of library compensation and work grants. The proposal for a novel should allow for the optimisation of the procedures for determining compliance with the conditions for the conduct of library activities as a public service and the management of public service libraries in other areas: education, science, culture, adapt the process of amending the annual financial plans of the national library, library information service, remove administrative obstacles in identifying and ensuring the competence of professional librarians for mutual catalogification. The method of training for a library exam based on law and not more on a self-government agreement has been changed. It is intended to ensure greater professionalism of the library public service and better competence of professional workers engaged in public library activities. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we note that this law has been old since 2001, that the Ministry and all the services have spent a lot of time, almost three years, so our desire to make this law much better or to get a new law. However, given that this law is outdated and these corrections are necessary, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u36	Good-bye! Thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! Let me begin by expressing my satisfaction that the Ministry has prepared a new Law on Librarianism, since the 14-year-old law needs to adapt to the existing situation, correct some shortcomings and also comply with other laws. The draft law has been drafted for several years and coordination has also been carried out with a number of stakeholders. We are pleased that a broad public debate was held, involving representatives of NGOs, representatives of the professional public, associations of municipalities and many others. In addition, a public presentation of the opinions held last month in the National Assembly helped to improve the final text of the bill. In the Desus Group, we believe that the adoption of the novel will improve and facilitate work in the field of library activities. This will address, inter alia, irregularities in mutual cataloging authorisations. In 2011, the Constitutional Court repealed the provisions of the Regulation concerning the termination of licences as they were inconsistent with the Library Act. The draft law also regulates the basis for the conduct of the library examination. The Librarianship Act has passed a state library exam and more detailed provisions on the examination are to be laid down in the Rules. Since the type and level of education of professional librarians were not regulated at the level of the law, this was an obstacle to the adoption of the Library Examination Regulation, which is still being implemented on the basis of the self-government agreement of 1980. It is therefore important that the level and type of education of professional librarians will now allow for the adoption of a library exam regulation. This will also lay down conditions for entry into the profession in accordance with development. The proposal will also allow for the optimisation of the procedures for determining whether the conditions for carrying out library activities as a public service are met and for conducting a survey of libraries performing public service in other areas. The process of adopting the annual financial plans of the National Library and the Library Information Service will also be adapted. However, most attention was paid to the provision governing the legal basis for the award of the library compensation at both the public presentation of opinions and the meeting of the parent committee. In the Desus Group, we support the compromise solution created through coordination with different stakeholders and also with the Legislative and Legal Service. The complementary proposal of Article 20 of the amendment specifies more precisely the library compensation provided in the form of a monetary contribution to living authors and the work grants for creativity. At the same time, the amendment also provides for a way to allocate funds to beneficiaries. We will support the bill in the Desus Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Bacič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u38	Mr Vice-President, distinguished Minister and Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! Slovenia has a very diversified system of librarian activity. Libraries thus represent irreplaceable cultural goods, which are accessible to everyone through the network of schools and general libraries in particular. Libraries face significant challenges in the digital age. In order to be part of them, it is necessary to follow suitably the regulatory framework in which they operate. The Librarianship Act is one of the few that does not experience frequent changes. However, when this proposal was considered, it turned out that the changes were coming a little too late. In the Group of Social Democrats, we support the measures that we consider necessary to further develop excellence in the field of library activities. This in the international space reaps the envyful success of the establishment of an advanced information system in particular. We are so pleased that, over the years, efforts have been made, in particular, by the Library Information Service and the National Library, to gain the competence to apply the rules of the profession in relation to mutual cataloging, thus ensuring a high level of quality of bibliographic records and mutual catalogues. Let us recall that we have already had proposals on the proposed regulation of this area on the table, but the attempts have failed three times due to the early termination of the term of office of the National Assembly. We also welcome some other changes, in particular the abolition of traineeships and other solutions that eliminate unnecessary burdens, particularly on municipal budgets. At the meeting of the parent’s working body, the main focus was on the arrangement of the library compensation. Unfortunately, for constitutional reasons, it was not possible to adopt a proposal set up by a group with the Association of Slovenian Writers. We believe that the best possible compromise has been adopted, while at the same time we express the expectation that the purpose will be properly pursued in the procedures of the Public Book Agency. As the debate at the public hearing and later on on the committee has shown, the Librarianship Act will soon require new upgrades. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the status of the Maribor University Library as the second depository organisation for the archival copy of the dictionary on classical record holders will be adequately addressed. We also expect support to be provided in general libraries at systemic level to make materials more accessible to all persons with special needs, blind, visually impaired, persons with specific reading disorders, older persons, by increasing the number of units of adapted library material in a easily readable form. Amendments to the law are therefore the first necessary response to the changing environment, so we will also support them in the Social Democrats Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u39	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the proposal will be made tomorrow, 24 in accordance with the timing of the meeting. November, in the framework of the votes. I'm putting an end to the 33rd item of the agenda. We're moving on to 35. At the end of the day, it is firstly a proposal for a law on the management of the forest in the heart of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, a group of 21 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Magi Government. To dean jedan, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u40	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to greet you in my name and on behalf of my team here with me. The current management of forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia is based on awarded concessions. Concessions were awarded in 1996 without a call for tender for a period of 20 years. Most of these concessions are from this period and these concessions are 18. For most of the forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia, the 20-year concession ratios run 30. 6. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, on the basis of monitoring the current management of forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia, the operations of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests, the assessment of the audit good value of forest management prepared by the Court of Auditors and the examination of the solutions in this area in the EU Member States, have prepared a proposal for amendments now before you. Let me immediately point out that this amendment is the closest to forest management and management, such as in neighbouring Austria or Bavaria, which are many examples in the area of the forest and forestry chain. The proposal for amendments was designed in a way that clearly sets out the principles and objectives of forest management owned by the Republic of Slovenia and is defined in the context of such an organisational form as can best be followed by these principles and objectives. The proposal for a law on forest management owned by the Republic of Slovenia therefore provides for the establishment of a new forestry company so as to enable the transfer of forest management owned by the Republic of Slovenia to a business environment where a better business outcome can be achieved, taking into account all the principles and commitments developed by the Slovenian forestry profession. The creation of a new company shall, in particular, ensure better efficiency of forest management owned by the Republic of Slovenia and establish additional conditions for the development of the entire forest and forestry sector. The new company will sell wood itself. In order to implement logging and wood harvesting in the state forests, the company will acquire operators on the market, so that work in the state forests will still be possible for the companies currently operating in the state forests, as well as for other economic operators providing services in the field of forest exploitation. The possibility of all parts of the state forests will also be available to future and, in particular, to future qualified and equipped hill and mountain farmers. Equal opportunities will be provided for all interested parties to perform works in state forests by taking into account public procurement arrangements. Allow me to introduce you to a few key objectives. Taking into account the principles of sustainable multi-purpose and co-natural governance with national forests, achieve as much return as possible. To contribute to the establishment and development of forest and forest chains, to the promotion of wood and wood products and to the creation of green jobs. In the long term, to increase the area of state forests, to contribute to the achievement of rural development objectives, in particular the conservation of farms and rural areas in the mountain and hill world with limited management opportunities. To contribute to the achievement of nature conservation objectives and in the areas of forests, forestry and forestry, to provide training for professional staff and to support education and scientific research. The new company will pay for the right to forest management owned by the Republic of Slovenia a share of the revenue from the so-called Forestry Fund, which is intended, in particular, for the obligations related to the denationalisation of forests and compensation for the inability to use returned forests, the financing of forest purchases, the co-financing of Natura 2000 measures in private forests, the construction and maintenance of local road infrastructure in the area of the municipalities in which state forests lie and the promotion of sustainable and multi-purpose forest management, the use of timber and timber products and forest-forest chains. With regard to the newly established company, it is particularly important to point out that the only member of the new company is the Republic of Slovenia without the possibility of entering the new shareholders. The company for forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia acquires only the right to manage, and forests remain owned by the Republic of Slovenia. The expected positive effects are as follows: greater transparency of business will be ensured in the broadcasting of parts in the forest and in particular in the execution of the sale of state timber. The total amount of wood will be made available to all interested customers under the same conditions. The conditions will be known and made public and will continue to be known as the indicative quantity and structure of forest-forest ranges, which our wood industry also needs. A truly reliable supply and the possibility of long-term contracts is what also provides an opportunity for faster development of the wood industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u41	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u42	Dear President, Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! We are considering, at least in our opinion, a very important law. Slovenia has no oil, but it has forests. Our strategic raw material is wood. The concession contracts concluded with former operators under the Agricultural Land and Forests Fund Act, which in nature represent the bulk of all forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia, will expire in the middle of the coming year. After their termination, the legislation now in force provides for the further award of concessions for the exploitation of forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia. In New Slovenia we warn that this would not be good. The concession system is weak. The dissatisfaction of the professional public and stakeholders in the management of forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia is increasing with the expiry of long-term concessions. The seizure of the state from concessionaires is too low. This is only one of the findings of the audit Forest management Review made by the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia in its audit report on 18 May 2012. For the second time, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food has decided to respond to this dissatisfaction with the Proposal for a Law on Forest Management owned by the Republic of Slovenia, the main solution of which is the establishment of the Slovenian State Forests State Company, d. o. o. From the Fund of Agricultural Forests and Lands, management of forests on the surface of 234,986 hectares is to be transferred to this company. Forest management taken over by a newly established company, according to the law's proposer, covers the tasks of forest management, management and acquisition. We Christian Democrats are, in principle, anti-interference with the economy. The government's proposal to transfer forest management to the state is controversial for us. It could also be controversial in terms of unlawful State aid under European Union rules. In our view, the establishment of a new share of 100 % State ownership is reckless. 20 million money invested is at stake for us in crisis situations. This envisaged company does not even have a business plan. We fear that the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food is overestimating the profitability of forests at this time. We are also opposed to the possibility of a state-owned company renting high loans with State guarantees. We've seen too many stories like this before. We ask the proposer the question: Where will the state company store wood? This is not really as simple as it seems, and the public does not know it, so it does not realize how harmful this project is for the Slovenian State. The legal ignorance of the public is well aware by the founders of this law. The forest can be stored at longer hands in pools with water. If the purchased logs are placed somewhere, they can take more hummus out of there in a little while. According to our information, the Slovenian market is unable to provide such a deduction as is foreseen by the bill's proponents. This claim proved the situation in the wood market after the catastrophic icicle. In the market there are surplus wood, wood is falling, and most importantly, in these times its price is falling. While the bill mentions the establishment of forest-forest chains, it does not contain specific levers for their establishment. We believe that they will come about on their own — or are they not? We have all received several letters from Slovenian municipalities concerning the proposal of this law. Some congregations are not satisfied with the projected share of the money provided for them by law. This represents 25 % of the annual remuneration from the State revenue from the sale of timber. At the same time, the Municipality of Kočevje proposes to be the seat of the state-owned company in Kočev. What should we think about that? Christian Democrats are not only critical, but we also have an alternative proposal to regulate the area. Forest management should remain within the framework of a fund that will otherwise soon be shut down. The fund should be transferred from the concession scheme to the tendering system. Let's say the units are smaller, for example. This will make it possible for domestic, including smaller, good conditions and opportunities for successful tendering. In addition, compulsory sanitary cuts should be established within the framework of the invitation to tender. Christian Democrats are proposing something else. A bank guarantee should be required to enter the tender. It is our belief that the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests, the Institute for Forests and Inspection Services, must be strengthened financially and human resources, which will enable the proper management of forests in the Republic of Slovenia. New Slovenia's parliamentary group – Christian Democrats will vote against the bill for the first time because we do not want a new TES 6. However, if the law is adopted, we will propose to the home committee a call for a public presentation of the opinions on the proposal for a law, as we want to allow the widest possible expert and other interested public to present our views on the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Dobovšek will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u44	Thank you. All those who accompany this meeting are respected! How important the forest for Slovenia is, we can look through history and we can see that the importance of Slovenia is right in the water and the forest. If we look at Slovenia, it's a green country, if we look out of the air, and that's what all foreigners admit. That's why they're coming to us. And the future of Slovenia, the creation of politics is right in the forest. Historically, if we look at Sweden. Why did Sweden develop? Because the king had a vision and a policy, he planted a forest, and within a hundred years they built a Swedish navy that raised Sweden into the giant that it is today. The second is from recent history. We have Baltic countries that have allowed the holocaust and the destruction of the forest and the ecological disaster. In the present case, we do not have a created policy, what and how we want, what pattern and what model we want: whether we want a Swedish model or want a Baltic model. We have not yet created policies on where Slovenia wants to go in the future. But in my opinion, the vision of Slovenia is in water and wood as strategic raw materials. The proposed model is too late. If we adopt legislation now, I believe that we will not be able to implement the proposed model in due course, especially because we do not yet know how and how we will store this wood, which has already been mentioned. Costs are foreseen, which are very high, we do not yet have space and equipment. If we just look at whether we want to implement the whole project transparently, how we will carry out public procurement under the current long-term procedures. The problem that is indicated is also in the workforce. What we want – whether we want to pay back what we already had 20 years ago, 40,000 jobs in the wood industry, reduced to about 10,000 what we now have. I believe that the policy of Slovenia is to acquire new jobs, and in the wood industry we could get them. The proposed project goes in a different direction, namely that we will sell it on a tree, it is said that in future foreigners will be able to buy only wood and again we will not have that added value, which is the essence of our forest management policy. I am even more afraid that foreigners will perform their work instead of the Slovenians as a cheap labour force. We may not even collect taxes from this labour force, because companies will be registered abroad or even work in black. We must also take into account the criticisms of NGOs that point out what can happen in this area and how important the wood industry is for Slovenia. I would also like to draw attention to the criticism of the SAZU, which says that we have to worry about biological amortisation. After World War II, biological amortisation was very important for the development of the wood industry in Slovenia. In view of the above, I think it is better to temporarily extend the system of concessions by agreeing that such a system is poor and not appropriate because of the lack of transparency and everything accompanying the current activity. However, I would like to assess that it is better if we extend the existing system for some time and really visually put in place a new system with all the fuses so that we do not make the situation worse. Transferling systems from abroad, yes, but taking into account local values. It is said that the system operating in Austria or in another country may not work for us because of local customs, by assessing in the project that we have a lack of assessment of the situation now in Slovenia, the situation in countries that are comparable, and which of these can be transferred and applied, of course with additions, to our system. We will not support the proposal given in this first reading by the Group of Non-Aligned Members of the Parliament. However, the proposal is the basis for a broader debate and policy-making towards the forest and the wood industry, and only on this basis will we be able to create new jobs, which is the future of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Danilo Anton Ranc will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u46	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly Primož Hainz, Honourable Minister of the Jews, Honourable Secretary of State of Marenče, Dear Fellows and Fellows! I have the opportunity to represent the position of the Group today, and it knows the industry quite well because I have been working for a long time and I would like to first perhaps present a little bit of an image of what we are talking about. Here you see a pendant, imagine that for every second in European forests one million such cubes grow, and imagine that this is a huge amount of the natural wealth of wood that the sun gives us based on photosynthesis. In order to be even more aware of what is happening in our domestic forests, let me tell you that during my presentation of the position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, 80 cubic cubic metres of wood will grow. Of course, on this occasion, I am very concerned about what will happen to these three bad wood trucks. The practice is that one truck stays in the forest where the lubricants eat it, one truck is exported, and one truck may be converted home. Of course, we also make a lot of noise, which is an additional irrationality. Let me make it clear, contrary to previous positions, that the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will support the law under consideration. And this scheme illustrates why this is important, why this is necessary, and we have fully recognized this in our Group of Members. It is a so-called circular economy where wood is produced on one side of the forest, which is then produced in the whole reverigion of the area into value added products. And this is an opportunity that Slovenia has so far not been able to take advantage of. I think that this law is a good basis for this to happen after 20 years of bad practice. We have already committed in the Coalition Treaty to linking forestry and the timber industry, promoting domestic wood processing into products of higher value added, revitalising the Slovenian wood industry and green investments, to making greater use of forests as the richest natural resource in Slovenia and in the vertical integration of economic companies into forest and forest chains. In line with the coalition commitments declared in the sustainable development of Slovenia, smart specialisation, after all also SDH strategies, the Forest Action Programme is a beautiful Forest Management Act provides for the establishment of a company that will connect forestry and the timber industry and ensure the recovery of the wood processing industry. The current management of forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia is based on concessions for the exploitation of forests which were awarded for 20 years in 1996 without public invitation to tender to forest operators. The 20-year concession contracts for most of the forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia run out of 30. 6. 2016, it is therefore necessary to establish a new business model that will reconnect forestry with the timber industry. During this 20-year period, the forest-forest chain was broken. There has been a decline in the wood industry, the cellulose industry and the loss of more than 30,000 jobs. Let me also illustrate this with specific numbers. During this 20-year period, a total of 8.8 billion negative environmental impacts and economic damage were caused by job losses, negative indirect effects on other sectors throughout the reverification. For these reasons, the law establishes forest management companies and for the processing of timber into products of high added value. It is essential that the state retakes the management of state forests as this will strengthen the development potential of wood as a source of natural wealth. Comparative advantages in the wood processing industry will also be strengthened. We are aware that the timber industry is on a global and European scale, as is one of the traditional manufacturing industries in Slovenia and Austria. Let me illustrate the case. The European woodworking sector covers more than €230 billion per annum and employs 3 million people in 380 000 companies. The objective of the forest management company and the forest and forestry chain will therefore be to manage forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with the principles of transparency, the establishment and development of forest and forest chains, the effective management of state ownership in accordance with the objectives of the national forest programme, the applicable legislation and plans for forest management, the creation of green jobs, the contribution to the achievement of rural development objectives and the public interest in particular in conservation areas of nature. It is crucial that the role of inter-resortmental integration is taken over by the State and, according to corporate governance rules, ensure the restoration of the forest and forest chain. According to the Statistical Office of Slovenia, Slovenia has a maximum of 0.6 hectares per capita among neighbouring countries and is among the most forested in Europe. We could cut 6 million cubic metres of wood a year, but because of the lack of connection between forestry and the timber industry, we cut up about 3 million, of which we export close to 2 million shades and also wood residues without added value. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we are convinced that the forest needs to be used better than the richest natural source of Slovenia and that the domestic processing of wood into products of high added value should be promoted. We are committed to reviving the timber industry and establishing forest chains. In the Group of Members, we believe that the Proposal for a Law on Forest Management, owned by the Republic of Slovenia, is suitable for further consideration, but in the process of further consideration, we will also support possible amendments which, in accordance with corporate governance in the forest management company, would further strengthen inter-resortmental integration and equal representation of forestry and the timber industry. On the basis of the poor experience of past practices in forest management and also the problems of the forest and forest chain, we will therefore support these laws in the parliamentary group for further consideration. I think it is high time we did something to prevent further economic damage, as it would be an additional 4.4 billion euros under the same management conditions over the next 10 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u48	President, thank you for your word. Minister with team, colleagues, colleagues, a nice greeting on behalf of the SDS Group! A few facts when they're in power of the left-wing government. The desire to expand the national interest paid by taxpayers, spread large to small ones, spread the country to private, large amounts of investment in projects without impact and a sad concession story. Personal concessions in the field of forestry remind me of concessions in the area of chimneys – fog, fog, no invitations, no records, no controls, and pay by citizens and citizens. In the SDS Group at first reading, we will not support the proposed law because we believe it is inappropriate for further consideration. At the outset, allow some of the reasons why we have decided to do so, but of course, if, above all, the coalition Members confirm the continuation of the legislative procedure, we will explain further some of our proposals, which we believe would significantly improve this law. If we do not significantly improve this law, we will get another bad example of a bad marriage that will have even worse practical effects. The forest management framework and the activities of forest stakeholders are defined by the Forest Act. Therefore, in our view, we should first adopt the substantive adaptations of this law and only regulate the management of state forests after the adoption of this law. Or maybe you could just put it all together. In a roof marriage, particular attention must be paid to forests whose potential is, as we all find today, poorly exploited. These untapped forests are a fundamental challenge and the potential of the future success of the Slovenian forest and forest chain, which we are talking about, but do little. The bill before us wrongly and misleadingly substantiates changes in the management of forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia in the way that the new company achieves better business results compared to concessional forest management. The current yield in the state forests is almost 30%. In 2014, a gap was detected due to a desire, but the yield reached 20%, which the Ministry defines as a fundamental objective in the management of state forests in the draft law. So, where is progress here? But we all know that we have the Institute for Forests, the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests, GG, various supervisory institutions. But all of a sudden we're going to get a new company where you're going to drain honey and milk, which we think is wrong and wrong. The presentation of the law on forest management in the Republic of Slovenia presents a misleading and misleading assessment of the financial consequences. We'll talk about it a little further. 20 million to be set up in our opinion by a client company, which we will give him another 20 million euros of state guarantees for its development. In short, 40 million for something that we already have in this or another form, but because obviously it's not good enough for individuals, party parties and probably someone else, we're going to set up a new state company. We also have poor experience with different chains in Slovenia. Today, when we talk about the forest and forest development chain, we know that there is a lot of money in these chains and a lot of wasteful resources is a bad ransom. If we save a local farmer with Slovenian breakfast, we have done little. If by setting up a state-owned enterprise we think we are saving the forest and forestry chain, we are doing too little, and especially the wrong one. The proposal before us also does not offer a strategy for the development of forestry, which should be one of the key moments, does not offer simplification of forest management and does not bring together a number of institutions in this area, but introduces a new legal entity into the legal order. The total amount of guarantees is too big for what we already have to go to some new game. More. The bill does not offer a solution for the smooth supply of the Slovenian woodworking industry. It is necessary to take a key step forward in the integrated updating of processes in the field of active forest management, regardless of ownership, and at the same time to address key problems of forestry and forestry in Slovenia, which, according to the SDS, are not being addressed by this law. In short, if the law is enforced, it will be from 1. Seven. 2016 work in forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia has, in our opinion, stopped. But here are two key issues: how long will work in state forests be delayed and who will be responsible for compensation and financial consequences as well. Why do we think that? The emptiness of the exploitation of forests will be due to the expiry of concession contracts and there will be no new vehicle for the exploitation of state forests due to the backlog of public tendering. The question arises how and how we will solve the time loop The proposal foresees a new economic society to take over the governance of the state forest. But, Your Honor, we already have all this. Moreover, if you remember, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, led by Janez Janša on 27 June 2012, adopted an action plan to increase the competitiveness of the forest and forest chain in Slovenia by 2020 with the promotional slogan Les is beautiful. And then the story stopped. However, it is more than obvious that the Ministry wants to do something new just before the end of the concession contracts and obviously does not recognize the multilayered importance of managing state forests, not to mention that these state forests will obviously be the intention of both the law and the ministry to increase this share, so this is at the expense of a small and private one. The fact is that the Ministry, through this bill, acts as a bad host, delays the procedural deadlines related to the early and effective use of forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia, seeks to establish an inefficient and opaque system of management of state forests, prevents denationalisation procedures and thus prolongs the process of returning assets to denationalising beneficiaries and, as I have already said, wants to increase – and not reduce – the share of state forests. We're going back to national interest. The role of the Modern Centre Party is also interesting. When the law came to public hearing in 2014, most of their members said how they were against this law. Nor will this clearly prevent the "yes" vote by SMC Members from being in the European Liberal Party of Alde. However, I wonder whether they are aware of their position in this area, whether they are raising state shares in the forest or a more liberal system. In this way, you will have to decide once, honourable Members and Members of the SMC, whether you will join European Socialists or insist on a fig in the pocket of the European Alde Group. In the SDS Group, we also believe that the comments already coming to this law by the Chamber of Commerce, the Fund of Agricultural Lands, the Forestry Union, including individual municipalities, will continue to experience an even greater boom. We therefore agree with the New Slovenia Group, which has already announced a public presentation of opinions on this law. The SDS Group also raises the question of whether, despite successful practice in certain other European countries in Slovenia, it makes sense to establish a new state-owned company, which we know is their success in practice – the Slovenian Taiwanese privatisation of existing successful companies, poor economic growth and damage to workers. In short, one new solution that will make bad practice. At the time of his term of office in 2013 in the National Assembly, Minister Židan said that he would have awarded new concessions to forest-forest chains after the end of the current concessions. After the aberration, he first considered the establishment of a state-owned enterprise for the purchase of timber in private forests, and in April 2014 he drafted a law establishing a state-owned company, which the then coalition or government, following an emergency procedure at the end of the term of office, did not want to adopt and send to the National Assembly. The current government has adopted a proposal for a law in October 2015. At best, this bill will be adopted at the end of winter or early in spring next year. The state-owned company must then be set up, set up, from the lead forward, and, in the opinion of the applicants, this company should take over the management of state forests, which is not only in Slovenian practice, but also in theory, if we read the bill, impossible. At the same time, of course, there is also a need to acquire personnel, business premises, equipment, to make public calls, to find places to store wood and so on. We are also interested in whether this may be a deliberate delay in order to prevent the extension of concession contracts without an invitation to tender for the current forestry February, which also occurs in the public eye. There is, as has already been said, EUR 20 million for the establishment capital, but there is no document in the bill to justify this amount of funds envisaged, just to buy some machines. And as we all know, a lot already exists, this should be linked, not just by giving a company 20 million euros in nice eyes. It is even more surprising that the bill provides for an additional EUR 20 million of guarantee obligations, which is a good political footnote, but it does not define in practice or in theory what money is to be lost by credits secured by state guarantees. We would also expect the Government to adopt at least a strategy for the development of forestry and the timber industry, if not the Forest Act. The main complexes of state forests, which is also problematic, are in areas where there is little chance of employment for the population. The management of the company does not follow the provisions of the Slovenian State Holding Act, the primary objective of which is to separate the function of the State, the owner of the capital investment, from other functions of the State and thus to prevent conflicts of interest, distortion of competition in the markets and unequal treatment of companies. We cannot get rid of the feeling that the bill was deliberately sent too late to be treated, without a strategy, without a business plan, past the provisions of other laws, adopted in a time-consuming manner Take or leave without the necessary financial data and justification. Thus, in our opinion, Minister Židan will create a human and financial February with 40 million euros, whose hostages will be state forests and state interests. But we all know who's paying for it. If the law goes into further consideration, we suggest that it will not really look like a party project to enable the opposition to participate in the composition of the organs of society. If the long-term operation of the company is at all the aim of individuals in the coalition, such additional supervision in a society that is supposed to manage our renewable wealth is necessary. In our view, it would also help to establish an advisory board on the Bavarian supervisory board, which would include representatives of different groups of interest in the field of state forests. I could probably list it, and I'll leave some time for my colleagues to give their opinion. As has already been said, at first reading, we will oppose further consideration of this law in the SDS Group. Unfortunately, however, we do not have much hope that the law will change so radically in the course of the examination that it will be possible in theory and, above all, in the practical work, to enable Slovenian state forests to grow, while all stakeholders, which are very large in the Slovenian woodworking industry, will have some of these companies. Dear Minister, we hope we're wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Benedict Kopmajer is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u50	Dear Vice President, distinguished Minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon! Let the position of the DeSUS Group on the Proposal for a Law on Forest Management owned by the Republic of Slovenia begin with a few small statistics. In the Republic of Slovenia, forests cover more than 1.1 million hectares, representing slightly less than 60% of our country's surface area. Of this, 80% of the forests are privately owned and 20% are owned by the Republic of Slovenia, which is slightly less than 235 thousand hectares of forests. The management of private-owned forests differs considerably from the management of state forests. For example, in private forests, the actual section is lower than planned, similar to education and protective parts. In national forests, however, breeding plans and envisaged cuts are generally fully implemented. Since 1996, state forests have been managed by concessionaires, mostly forestry executives, who received concessions without a tender for 20 years. In the middle of next year, most of these 20-year concessions will expire. The results of the analysis of the current management of state forests, the results of the operation of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests and the findings of the audit of the profitability of forest management by the Court of Auditors have shown that such concessionary management has not always been the most cost-effective, transparent, profitable country and effective, which is a sufficient reason to draw up a proposal for a law that is currently under general discussion. A number of options were available to manage state forests after the end of concessions. Thus, through the competent Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, the Government has proposed a new law on management of the forests of the Republic of Slovenia. The main solution presented by the bill is the establishment of an economic company called the Slovenian National Forest, d.o.o., which is expected to play the role of most of the concessionaires so far. Members and Members of the Desus Group are convinced that it is reasonable to manage state forests within a single economic society. We see the reasons for such a solution in the complexity of forest management and the necessity of ensuring their economic, environmental and social importance equally. We are confident that management in the new business environment will fully deliver better results. We have actively participated in the drafting of the bill. With our proposals, we wanted in particular to contribute to greater transparency, economy and the public of the work of the new society. We have endeavoured to involve the state company Sneznik in the new company as a capital investment. We also wanted a representative of the Ministry of Environment and Space to be included in the Supervisory Board of the new company. On our proposal, more commitments were also made in the text of the law regarding the creation of conditions for the development of forest-forest chains. Our proposals were also partly taken into account when establishing the appropriate amount of the annual compensation paid by the company to the Republic of Slovenia in the so-called forest fund and the amount of the annual compensation received by the municipalities in which the state forests lie. According to our assessment, the bill allows for more transparent and cost-effective management of state forests, greater scope and security of supply of the Slovenian forest market. In our opinion, the proposal will also allow all economic operators an equivalent opportunity to obtain raw materials, namely timber from these forests, greater cooperation between stakeholders along the forest and forest chains, the development of so-called green jobs, and make it significantly easier and more effective to achieve a range of other objectives in the field of public benefits of forests and conservation of nature. Members and Members of the Desus Group see the bill as a great progress in forest management owned by the Republic of Slovenia, and we will therefore support it in the first reading. However, there are still some open issues that, according to our assessment, have not yet been adequately addressed, so for the second reading, we will draw up proposals for amendments, to which we will also attach our continued support to the bill. In this way, I can already announce the amendments to the provisions setting out the amount of the annual refund that the company will have to pay to the Republic of Slovenia from the sale of timber from state forests, and we will also amend the provision governing the amount of the annual refund to which the municipality of state forests is entitled. Otherwise, as I have already announced, Members and Members of the Desus Group will support the draft law at first reading. On second reading, however, our support will depend on which of our proposals will be adopted and incorporated into the law with amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber, a group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u52	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. The consideration of the proposal for a law on forest management owned by the Republic of Slovenia falls at a time when we are facing the end of concession contracts that expire in 2016 and these contracts have been concluded by the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia with the current concessionaires. It is a 20-year period when we are faced with the fact that in Slovenia it has virtually collapsed or a very poor woodworking industry. During this period, this process of creating a new country, including the transfer of social property to state and private, has certainly benefited both neighbouring Austria and Italy, with which very good sales routes have been set up to sell Slovenian timber. Therefore, these momentary eyes of the public are extremely anchored in the law that we are considering today and whether we will still be able to stop this trend. We must be aware, however, that today we are talking about only 20% of the forests owned by the country and 80% is privately owned. Together, both form an extraordinary potential for the development of Slovenia, so it is very important that we are aware that forests and timber are actually strategic goods, since almost 65% of the area of the Republic of Slovenia actually covers the forest. Just from the knowledge that it is an extremely strategic and important raw material for the development of Slovenia, it is proposed to establish an economic company of the Slovenian National Forest, exclusively owned by the Republic of Slovenia, which cannot share or transfer its share to another person. This is very important, because we must also be aware that the forest is not only of market value and is not only important because of commercial interests, which is often extremely stressed, but also because of the social, ecological and, of course, economic function of the forest. If the Government decides to set up a state-owned company, this does not mean that it interferes with the economic sphere in a way that limits it in development. On the contrary, it is aware that forests and timber represent a social, ecological and economic category, so it is a great responsibility for the Government to maintain this in the future. The capital investment of the Republic of Slovenia will also be invested in the new company, the company Sneznik, which is one of the concessionaires who is already working in the state forests. At the same time, it is also a company that actually has experience both in cutting, harvesting, processing and selling timber. Therefore, the inclusion of Sneznik in the new company will be extremely beneficial, as the model already established in this company is certainly one of the processes by which we can get to the forest and forest chains and the so-called green jobs. Let me remind you that before our independence in the field of wood processing and forestry, we have provided 30,000 jobs in Slovenia. Due to its location, Sneznik himself can have an extremely important impact on the performance of the new company, as the location is practically in the heart of the state forests, ranging from Turjak to Kolpa and through Kočevsko Rogo to Krka. This is a fragmented complex of state forests and it will be crucial how it will be managed in this space and how it will organise a complete activity in this particular part. The railway will be one of those components that will also be key to the success of the wood-processing chain in Slovenia, so many actors are very important for actually re-establishing the wood-processing chain outside the forest. And all these actors will also have to make investments and their developmental perspective on the integration of Slovenia with infrastructure within a certain period of time. The funds generated by selling about 1.2 million cubic metres of wood will be distributed both to the country and to the congregations. State resources will be collected in the forest budget fund, through which resources will then be allocated both for the further conservation of forests, for the purchase of forests, also for the settlement of obligations arising within forest management, and from this fund will also be provided to the municipalities in which state forests are located. I think it must also be made very clear on this occasion that an important transition from concessionary forest management to a state-owned enterprise will be, because nature in fact unrelentingly reminds us that it does not leave much time for us to think or look for options. The fact is that both the gland and the skull that we have been meeting with in the past period shows that it is very important to have a comprehensive and integrated management of forests, not only with national but also with private ones. There is certainly another very large open question about how to ensure even more efficient management of all forests. But if we talk about nationals, it will be precisely because of all these natural challenges, which are currently extremely present, that it will be very important to transfer parts from concessionary companies to this new company, because, last but not least, it is the great potential of workers who are trained to work in the forest, it is also a great potential for machinery, it is also a great potential for locations where it is possible to deposit such wood and then manage further processing and sale processes. These are certainly challenges that will be crucial to the new company if we want to establish successful forest management and also start with significantly more efficient procedures for the establishment of a timber chain in Slovenia. If we want to establish a wood-processing chain in Slovenia to a greater extent than today, we must also point out that there will be a significant need to invest more resources in the wood-processing industry as well. Without investing in the timber industry and with resources from the state forests alone, this will not be possible, there will be no way that Slovenian wood will not have to be sold abroad. Therefore, investing in technology modernisation and thus improving the competitiveness of the wood-processing industry will also be crucial to the success of this company, and also for us to really show ourselves in the political field in Slovenia as well as those who are aware that forest and wood are strategic raw materials for Slovenia. However, without investment in one activity and another, it will not actually work. Therefore, the new financial perspective ahead of us will certainly be extremely important for our decisions whether we will invest these funds in the timber industry or not. In the House of Common Social Democrats, we believe that the proposed law is suitable for further consideration and can in fact serve as a good basis for opening a new chapter in the history of Slovenia, by making wood one of the key factors in our future development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The text is by the Group of Members of the United Left, for which Mrs Violeta Tomić is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Madam President. A respected minister and a ministerial team, colleagues and colleagues! Today, the state forests in Slovenia are managed by private companies created from privatised, formerly social forest economies. These companies, some of which retained the name Forestry, some of which did not, received 20-year concessions for the exploitation of state forests in 1996. The profits that have been forged by private individuals over the years at the expense of the low concessions paid to the State and the high prices of timber, mainly in neighbouring countries, have been fantastic. As a result, the municipalities that hired the same companies for their work in the municipal forests also suffered more than twice as much for wood from the municipal forests as the country has. As the price of wood is also slightly higher in neighbouring countries, especially Austria, and payment conditions are better, most of the high-quality wood from state forests has been exported. The once flourishing domestic woodworking industry was slowly failing because of this and also because of tycoon stories. In the 20 years since independence, the number of employees in this sector has decreased from about 40,000 to just 11,000. By comparison, the Austrians increased employment in the industry from 53 000 to 77,000 at almost the same time. That the current concession system is weak and unendurable is known for a long time. This has long been pointed out by the media, and this has been pointed out by the Court of Auditors in 2012, and this is recognised by the Government in the draft law we are considering. Not only is the expiration date of the largest concessions known since 1996 but it has been 19 years. This is a very long time to prepare in-depth studies and prepare the most appropriate model for managing state forests. A fifth of a century of time, this country had to prepare an optimum arrangement to replace the existing concession system. They were dedicated, conferences, round tables, many proposals and many debates. However, specific studies showing the comparative advantages of the management model proposed in the law have not been submitted by the bill. Six months before the end of concessions, the government is now proposing a law that is only an improved version of one that was already rejected a year ago in the National Assembly. This puts the whole policy ahead of the ultimatum: take it or leave it. But we can't land on this in the United Left. The law introduces a state-owned enterprise in the form of a share that has already been proven to be an ideal form of State kidnapping in the past. The neo-liberal ideology of non-interference in the economy has led to the fact that these state-owned state-owned enterprises receive money from the state budget and the millions of state-owned guarantees and ultimately act as a state in the country and are totally untouchable. Which is logical, of course, because these are limited liability companies. Of course, they are primarily responsible for themselves. In the end, however, it is only for individuals to benefit from the management of state property rather than for all citizens to have it. With this law, the government also introduces such a model into the management of state-owned forests. The legal solution ahead of us has no professional basis. It seems that the government, with the inadequacy of the business plan, with a management strategy, an act establishing a company, a contract between society and the state of affairs, leaves things on purpose open to looting different lobbyes. The spending plan of EUR 20 million to be allocated by the State to the establishment of the company covers only one side of the A4 format. But all the numbers are estimated only about or, as we say, as we say at home, over the finger. In the United Left Group, we will not support such a proposal for a forest management law owned by the Republic of Slovenia, because we believe that until June 2016, the model proposed by the law cannot be established and that the interrupted supply of raw materials will cause major economic damage to domestic wood-processing companies. And who will take responsibility for this damage? In order to avoid this, we believe that it would be better to start preparing a solution without delay to allow the sale of timber from state forests after the end of concessions to any of the existing institutions with the necessary knowledge to carry out this activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u55	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate on the bill. Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor to prepare Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u56	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Hello, Mr. Minister, with your team, honourable Members and, of course, all those who are close to you and you love him. Today, too, in the coming month, we will be discussing what to do in this national assembly and other halls. Some people have actually surprised me today because they have some kind of mistrust about something, and they want to stop it from happening at the beginning. I think that the matter is prepared to the extent that we must not prevent it, but that it should be added in the discussions below with articles that will help this law to develop to that extent or even better, as was done by forestry workers when they were associated with forestry workers 30, 40 years ago. Let me start at the beginning with a word around this oil, when we say that Slovenia doesn't have it, but it has wood, but it has plenty of wood. The oil will run out someday, and the wood won't be if we cut it properly. The forest grows new, every year we grow up, and we know that we produce it much less than this growth. We have large stocks mainly in private forests. I'd take a little look at the Austrians. They are ahead of us, they have no major crisis, they can work, they face problems, they can solve problems, and we should learn something from them. See, in Austria, wood growth is three times smaller per capita than in Slovenia. But they install it in products three times more per capita than in Slovenia. We should think about it here. The other thing is profit. In Austria, workers working in the wood industry earn about twice as much as in Slovenia. From this, it could be concluded that the labour force in Austria is significantly higher than in Slovenia. However, it is worth doing in Austria, but it is not worth doing in Slovenia. I will try to show in the second part, it is practically my colleague Danila, with whom we have also been preparing and today it has also been somehow obvious that the Party of the Modern Centre is guilty of continuing this, but we were against it first. I'd say we've never been against it. My colleague and I worked very hard, somehow showing our purpose and our vision of this law, how we could integrate it into the forest and forest chains. This is how fellow Members have followed us, and I must say that we have brought this matter to the point that there are no major derogations in the coalition. That's what I have to say for sure. But if we're like the opposition's colleagues, they say, "Come from words to action." I think now is the time to come from words to action. We have spoken many times on the Committee on Agriculture, where we have dealt with rural issues so that things do not change. We note, however, that the forests are in Slovenia and are located in the countryside. And if we take this matter away, we will be able to employ a lot of young people and a lot of workers in this area, and by doing so we will launch this wood industry. But in parallel, if we maintain the countryside, we will also maintain tourism. That's a different branch. Forestry and tourism seem very connected to me. If we don't support this, then we won't have the other one. If we do not preserve the population in the countryside, then we may be afraid of what the next generation will do. We all know that centers are developing, big cities, but now that we have the opportunity to do something for the countryside, we are somehow turning our backs. The point is that forests are all over Slovenia, not just in an area, as we used to do with some law here, but some Members have listened to some local interest. That's perfectly logical. But this is about all of Slovenia. This must somehow be seen in this sense. This state-owned forest management law in Slovenia is somehow very much defined. Those of you who have read it can see that all things are very well suited to the logs, that everything within what is happening in the forest, the sonar management of the forest, as the foresters often say, has gained much through this law. But it is mentioned in the law that this forest-forest chain will be established to continue. Of course, not tomorrow when some think that this will be a problem in June. Look, if there's not so much wood to cut by June, at least the wood doesn't break down, it'll cost him another six months in the woods, because it won't hurt, and then he'll cut himself. I see one opportunity in this part. First time. This is barely a good 20% of all this wood in Slovenia. I think one of these models, if he succeeds, will be followed by privates. And that is the goal of all of this, because we must come back if we are to get to new jobs. I will try to show this forest wood-chain somehow very practical from this point of view, because I come from the economy alone, I was in school. First, I'm gonna start here on the left side of those trucks that bother us so much. Every day we talk about how many trucks we've listed, going across the border, going to Austria, Italy, or maybe somewhere else. Of course, we will have to change the direction of these trucks back to Slovenia in order to carry out internal transport within, so that no one thinks that we will now make these drivers unemployed so that they will no longer have a job. No, no, no. They'll just drive inside and not out. Who's gonna say, "You can't ban exports." Indeed, we cannot, but the country can, with certain mechanisms, as is the case in Austria, speed up the production and consumption of wood. I think we need to increase our consumption, we need to build up wood. We have to come from these logs, if I are to display somewhere here as a warehouse, which will somehow start this forest and forest chain in Slovenia, when certain centres are formed, but not yet defined how many will be defined, and the goal is to be as close as possible to make this transport as possible. In these warehouses, these logs will have to be milled and some lines will certainly need to be placed where the logs will be ready for further sale. I know that there are a lot of cockroaches waiting in the chain here. In Slovenia we have over 400 cockroaches who have kind of grumbled that they haven't been given cold in the last 20 years. Why am I saying this? Because among these 400 sawmills are not only sawmills, but also finalists, making semi-manufactured products, glues, having dryers, selling half-manufactured products, and some also produce products of higher value. I must point out that products are of higher value products where wood is small. Where 300, 400, 500% higher value or added value, then the added value is so high that we can talk about the visible perception of the number of jobs. On the other hand, I'm going to say, for example, in the log we're exporting, merchants make about 20% and nothing more. If we were selling sawn wood, about 100% would be added. That is to say, if they received 100 euros, they would get 200 euros for sawn wood. But there are some jobs here already. If we produce glues, of course, these glues change and will get another form because they are very suitable for building wooden houses. Today we buy a lot of glue and this material from Austria and some say how we do it from Slovenian wood. Far from it. But if we get to some very demanding products, say, this is an interesting project that we did with the students when I was still at school in Slovenj Gradec three years ago when we connected with the students of architecture in Ljubljana, where they somehow gave their ideas, built these products on paper and then made these products in a school workshop of forestry programs in Slovenj Gradec at the secondary school. This was then also exhibited in Slovenj Gradc at the auction of wood. Some products are already produced in certain undertakings. Just now it is being prepared, another such workshop has already been carried out, another such project is being prepared, which is in the final phase, where these products will be prepared and will again be exhibited at the auction of wood next February in Slovenj Gradc. Of course, if we go to an even higher added value – for example, this butterfly that I have on me today, we could say that there is only 1% of the material here and 99% of the work. But here's the highest added value. Or at this wooden hour, for example, there is very little wood, but the added value of work is much higher. What I'm saying is that these materials from which this product is made are made are from the wood that we're burning today. These are little pieces. We're all smoking too much wood today. In fact, we should set ourselves a goal to burn only what is no longer suitable for production. If these things were to be done somehow, as I imagined, if they were to run this chain, they could actually reach 10 or 20 thousand new jobs in the next 10 years — I don't think so — and much more in the coming periods if private people followed. If we're going to run this production, consumption, I know we're going to be able to sell these things. And when we get to new jobs, those who join this chain will come alone, and they won't have to be looked for. Of course, I must point out that there are important individuals in the places that are developing these products – in Koroška we have such people, I must mention Mr Max Arih, who is an entrepreneur and works in the carving and restoration of old products, creating new products and creating timber. I think it'll be a good example of practice in the coming years. Let me also mention that we are counting on such a centre to be formed in Koroška. We are also counting on the conditions laid down so that this company could also be established in Koroška. I'll give you four reasons for that. For the first time, the tradition of forestry in Koroškem, Lesna Slovenj Gradec was important not only in Slovenia 30 years ago but in Yugoslavia. Forest growth in Koroška is already 70%. We have a wood auction in Slovenj Gradec, which is of an international character. Here are examples of good practice where young people create together with college. I think we have some conditions for creating this chain and that we will succeed on this path. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor. Get Mrs. Violeta Tomic ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister! Well, I won't be as graphic as the predecessor, but I have to say he said the point. In front of us is legislation or one of the laws that I hope will probably be one of the most important laws and one that we can call a system law that changes the matter to its head. For 20 years we had an arrangement in which probably everyone in the National Assembly, unlike some, or most in the National Assembly, found that this arrangement did not produce the right results; I am talking about these concessions. What has happened in these 20 years and has progressed since 1996? The fact that in Slovenia almost no one is working chairs, as Škodnik showed; that we lost several tens of thousands of jobs in the wood industry in the wood industry; that we were angry in villages when heavy trucks destroyed our roads as they drove these strong trucks; that we heard in every inn when they told us to sell the logs to the Austrians; and that the Austrians sold us back the glued wood. And something had to be changed. Now is an ideal opportunity to change, concessions with next year fall in some way. Now I'm going to remind all those who say many times in this place that famous river that you're doing the same thing and you're expecting other results. But they're gone. So there's something that needs to be changed. Minister Židan and his team went to hard work, difficult legislative changes, which are always linked to some lobbyists, concessionaires and so on. However, I would not have these concessionaires that we now have, even though I am a Social Democrat, that I have different views on certain matters than New Slovenia, and that is nothing wrong, and some views different from the United Left, which is in fact always against. Some of the concession issues were good. It has to be picked up in some way. What was bad, however, must be amended by this legislation. You all say that wood for Slovenia is oil, such as for Norway, such as for the Middle East, such as for Russia's gas, is wood for Slovenia's oil. For this reason, the state must clearly cut off certain matters here and begin to manage these forests, 20% of all forests are state-owned, in particular must manage transparently, manage the country in such a way that it will receive the most and that this environmental aspect will also be taken into account. Because you know that in some ways the forests of the lungs are for our lives and that a sustainable matter will also be addressed here. With regard to the content of the law itself and the amendments, we will not now predict which amendments we will amend and so on. This debate is in a way ready to the extent that even when the government hears all these proposals, all these comments can already make some changes, and probably not a lot of amendments. Of course, everyone will never be satisfied with it. I must say, after a long time, we have a government coalition that is willing to destroy this hard wood, as Škodnik calls it. In the previous term, I would just say this to Mrs Tomic, we could not have done this, but we would have already done it, because we had one political party blocking this matter, which was very liberal and was essentially talking about everything that is not state-owned, is good, what is state-owned, everything is bad. Therefore, it was only then that the coalition could not push the matter forward. Now, this coalition is made up in such a way that, with a certain view forward, a unified one, the law can change. And I believe that this law will also come to life in practice. But it's a great responsibility to the Minister of the Jews. I agree with that. Of course, the law itself does not bring solutions. The law needs to be implemented and it is necessary to set up the right people to work transparently, to do what is right and to do what is right for this country. I simply support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mrs Violeta Tomić has the floor to prepare Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u60	First of all, I thank my colleague Han, who informed me. I am aware of the reasons why this law has fallen under the previous law of the government, and also of the arguments for and against. I must say, I'm glad that he fell at the time and that we have some improvement now on the table. I do not agree that, in principle, we are always against the United Left. However, we have made some constructive proposals and we will also, given that this law will be adopted, because the coalition is large and strong and will adopt this law, this means that we will continue to discuss this law and cooperate with the amendments and with constructive comments on this law. I guess that's the point. We have a very big responsibility. I think we all know that. Forests may be the last thing left for the Slovenians to do, because we decide almost 235 thousand hectares of forest here. The fate of these forests and of this part is something that concerns all citizens, not just a coalition, not just one party and not just some interest lobby. Recently, there has been a lot of talk about the processing of wood chains, the relaunching of the wood processing industry, sustainable forest management. But in front of us, this marriage has such beautiful and good intentions, but this marriage does not address any of them and does not save them. I have already said in my position that as annexes to the law, there are some documents missing that would make it easier to assess the appropriateness of the government's management solution. Let me mention the business plan first. For Slovenian state forests, d. o. o., there is no business plan. Respected and respected, the government will invest EUR 20 million in the company, but it will only explain the planned investments on one side of the A4 format. 20 million euros, and that's all the explanation for where this money's going to go. Estimates of how this money would be spent are rounded to around 100,000 euros, but we have not seen any basis and specifications for these estimates. The total cost of the necessary mechanisms is approximately EUR 10 million and the state investment, worth more than EUR 10 million, is justified only in one paragraph. Please, are these comments constructive or are we against it in principle? However, it was precisely two years ago that the Ministry of Agriculture requested a business plan in the allocation of funds for the improvement of agricultural holdings for investments exceeding EUR 40 000. In short, on the one hand, the Ministry of State funding for an investment worth EUR 50 000 requires a business plan and, on the other hand, a 20 million investment, as if the business plan was not needed at all. I'm sorry, but I think it's the mission of the opposition to point out such things. Then there is no act establishing a company, i.e. a contract between society and the state. In the public debate, the Ministry of Finance assessed that the proposal for a law poses a significant financial risk to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and that an analysis should be made to show whether the establishment of this company is reasonable and that it will not create an additional deficit – and we do not have that calculation! Excuse me for allowing me to warn you about this. The Resolution on the National Forest Programme was adopted in 2007. We still do not have reports on the implementation of the national forest programme. In the audit report, the Court of Auditors pointed out the same problem three years ago. This national forest programme is also referred to by the Government in the proposal of this law. Under this law, the funds collected under the forest are to be allocated for actions in the Natura 2000 area in accordance with the forest investment programme prepared by the Institute for Forests under the national forest programme and the Natura 2000 programme. So there will be a programme based on a programme where, according to the Court of Auditors, we have absolutely no influence and no insight. Come in. This bill also preserves the division of the function of governance of state forests, although, at the end of concessions, it offers an ideal opportunity to combine the forestry part of the Fund and the Institute for Forests. This could be some new public forestry company that could still sell wood from Slovenian forests and thereby generate profits. Such an undertaking would carry out public tasks, while also exploiting timber from state forests and also performing economic tasks against payment in private forests. Well, for what it would be enough to amend the Law on Forests, which would be much smaller by measure and scope than this new law establishing this new state-owned company. The transition of workers from the Fund would also be much simpler than it is now when setting up a new forestry company. Of course, it is only one possible solution, but in our view it is much better, but of course it is not the only possible solution. It is a fact that some independent analysis should be carried out to determine an optimal solution. Unfortunately, we do not have such analyses in front of us today to compare what options would be better. It is also a fact that all the tasks performed by the company could also be carried out by one of the existing institutions, and the country is nevertheless setting up this society with a limited – I emphasise limited – responsibility for managing our national forests. Although representatives of all four different ministries will sit in the Supervisory Board, this is unfortunately not a guarantee of good control over the functioning of the State Enterprise and the natural wealth that the company will have. The way this company will be controlled, we can look at the cases of SDH and the case of DUTB, where the Government calls, asks and writes letters, and warns the supervisory councils, but these supervisory councils ignore the Government smoothly. However, that we will not only criticize and warn about bad things and be, as some say, always against, very much welcome the decision that workers will be represented in the supervisory world this time. It is only the workers who really care about the society in which they work, and it is only the workers who really know the functioning of their society and who do not care what happens to society, because only the workers are dependent, financially and life-dependent, on the functioning of this society. This seems to us to be good, commendable and, in fact, it is finally one such departure from the practice of this government. As has already been said, we will cooperate with constructive proposals, of course we will support good proposals and draw attention to the bad, because it is the fate of our forests and indirectly the fate of all of us citizens of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mrs. Iva Dimic has the floor. Get Mrs. Vesna Vervega ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Once again, we have a law on state forests on the table at the National Assembly, which goes its own way and does not listen to what individual parliamentary groups or political parties have to say, especially forest experts. The fact is, it should be the aim of the country all year round, not just from today, that we get as much out of the forest as possible, but that was not the case. You say so, so we brought a new marriage into the National Assembly, which will make it possible! But let's see what this new law brings, but first, what it brings, or what has been done, I will not go back in 2007, but I will only look back from 2012, when Minister Dejan Židan was Minister and Chairman of the Committee; I have prepared a number of conclusions, all from 2012, when it was ordered to the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, to prepare a proposal within six months for a new regime on forest management owned by the Republic of Slovenia, taking into account the recommendations of the Court of Auditors. Furthermore, in 2013 – it is said that nothing has been done – once again on the Committee on Agriculture, when the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment is called upon to prepare, in accordance with the Court of Auditors' recommendations, measures to improve forest management with a view to increasing the share of the processing of Slovenian logs in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, and nothing has been done. When I looked back at what I was supposed to point out, I said to myself, does it even make sense to point out anything? Mr. Secretary, will you tell us what was done? The Forest Action Plan was adopted in 2012 and 17 June, where key objectives of the Action Plan were written, key factors for the successful implementation of the Action Plan. Thus, we have already had all the basis for starting up how the woodworking industry in Slovenia is expected to develop in 2012, in an action plan adopted by the Government, which is the basis for all further steps towards improving the woodworking industry. I would quickly touch – of course in Novi Slovenija and this way of managing Slovenian forests we oppose, I think this has already been seen from the point of view of the parliamentary group, but I still have to touch certain matters that not only do I think are wider for experts in forestry, forestry, the economy is not all crystal clear. I want to know what it means to set up a company that will launch a timber chain with high added value. My dears, what, what's the high added value? I'm afraid it's just a phrase on paper, just like it was in the past, "let's settle the credit crunch," but no one knew or how, not in any way, how we eliminated it or didn't – I think entrepreneurs are still talking in this direction, that it's not. But high added value, as defined. I didn't see any defined value in a high-value marriage. I think this is very large because here, because we are talking about the high added value for Slovenian wood, everything, including the State guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia, which, of course, redefines again – of course, we are asking in the New Slovenia Group whether or not – what will enable this guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia. What will it be spent on? Is that just Bianca? And then someone will say we need to buy machines. Do we need this guarantee to start the processing industry, or do we need this guarantee to pay the workers because we did bad work that month or two months? What will the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia be used for? I don't have that either. I haven't figured it out. Maybe Mr. Secretary will warn me. He'll tell me why. Then we can continue: the establishment of forest-forest chains. How nice to hear! We've been listening to this phrase since 2012, I said I don't like phrases that aren't specific. When I was working in the economy, it had to be a concrete case for each marketing action, what and what will be the objectives, how much will we have the ransom, how much will be the proceeds, who will control it From this proposal of the law I do not see this. [[…]] I can't see. What is meant as the establishment of forest-forest chains? Owning the connection? Is it just a purchase of wood on a ramp that we know where to store — we know how it is with the falling of wood — or is it a contractual relationship? We don't know. Maybe just one step back: high added value – I forgot to say yet. What happens when we realize that this chain does not bring high added value? Are we going to stop? Are we going to close? It is therefore important that we evaluate what is a high added value for us. If you were looking at the right idea last week, I hope you were watching it, there was an entrepreneur who was processing – I don't know if he was from the Solchavean region – who was producing pellets. He has added value! That entrepreneur's got it. It's made out of pellets. And it has high added value to the employee. Do you want to know how much she's got? 125 grand. It is 3 times the average of the Republic of Slovenia! That's why I want to evaluate before such a law is passed. Because if we have a valuation, if we have the criteria, then we can also compare which direction we're going, not that this high added value is somewhere in the air. It was then mentioned in the law itself that the State-owned company Sneznik, which owns 70 % of the state, is included as part of the 20 million stakes. I'm just curious, I haven't seen what the estimated value of Snow White is, and I don't have this information on how much Snow White's value has been estimated. And even if the value has already been made. Secondly, I would like to know what will then be connected to Sneznik in the Slovenian State Forest, d. o. o. Is this going to be a subsidiary or is this going to be an affiliated company? This, colleagues from the coalition – or from the opposition, because, nevertheless, fellow Members – I could not understand this from the law itself. I think it is very important to write down the purpose of the guarantee charge because either the funds will be financed or the subsidiaries from the guarantee will be set up. Those aren't stories. Slovenia or Slovenians, citizens and citizens have very poor experience with guarantees. We know what was going on in the National Assembly with the guarantee of the thermal power plant Šostanj Block 6. New Slovenia was the only vote against and we see where we brought things. I think that we have nothing to play with the guarantees of setting up state-owned enterprises when we talk about public-private partnerships. That we cannot make the guarantee of Slovenia for this. Since we have wood there, no wood will be taken out of our forests. We have wood in the country and no one will take it. Why do we need guarantees? I expect you to answer that for me today. I would also like to touch on an area that also discusses who will oversee this company. We know that it is also the purpose of establishing some subsidiaries, and I am counting on or believe that fellow Members know what it is like to have a state set up an accounting firm. Who's in charge of control? I would like to say something else that we are talking today about a state-owned company here in the National Assembly and we are talking about the start-up of the woodworking industry. I must say that I also expected Mr Restoration, Minister of Economy, who might have responded to more economic issues. At the same time, since we have the Minister of Agriculture here, I would like to know what the relationship with the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests will be, how will the transfer of the information system, which was said to be transferred from the Fund to a newly established society, and how much funding will be available for this, because it is not defined in the law itself. I don't know if we're going to do this a little bit at home and we're going to say, but then how does this fit with the financial statements that we're not going to talk like that, Mr. Secretary-General, as we did with the representative, that something went wrong. [[…]] And, of course, the people or the people. Will these personnel be so qualified that they will also be able to sell to marketers who will perform commercial works? What profiles of experts? It seems to me that it is very important to determine what, what, and how much it will take. The conditions for broadcasting parts in the forest. Who are the buyers? Either we have a valuation or we have in mind who will be the buyers of our products or this company. Finally, I can say that Slovenia exports wood to Italy because it does not have its own manufacturing industry. The main buyers for bad pulp wood are in Italy. We're selling this to one buyer. Do you know how much Slovenia represents to this buyer in its buyers or sellers? Six percent! There are still things that are still quite open. I don't think the law is on the right track. Rather, it would be more effective to use everything we already have, which works well – and here I have in mind the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests, the Institute of Forests, the Institute of Forestry; in short, we have plenty of experts who will work. To conclude, forests in our country are not a guarantee for the production of quality furniture, and I am done with this.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magi Food has the floor. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u64	May Mrs Dimic allow me to read something for which I would like a little attention: "The forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia, which comprise more than 240 thousand hectares, must pass through the previous concession contracts under the administration of a company in 100 per cent of the ownership of the Slovenian state. The concessions remain only for mountain and hill farms and with the rest of the state forests the company manages independently and comprehensively, thus allowing efficient management of the corresponding income, which can also develop and accelerate the primary processing of timber from state forests and thereby create added value in Slovenia." This, Mrs Dimic, what I have read now, is not some kind of manifeste of the left political party, nor is it a programme of some left option, this is your president – probably by reading it – signed in 2012, and I fully agree with that. What we are doing now and what seems so very wrong to you is almost the implementation of another programme, which at this point is quite similar to the programme of the current coalition. On this basis, I suppose also, Mrs Dimic, the established expert group within the current government, which brought together experts, administrative workers and NGOs, who reviewed the situation and then showed five possible models. Most of the points, after the vote, were given a model — which is interesting again — that speaks of a state-owned company; even individuals called themselves that the only model was in line with that coalition contract. I would not want the political memory to fade so quickly, because I believe that this group of competent people knew what it was saying. It is true, however, that these decisions were not confirmed by the government at the time and that it could be agreed because in Slovenia governments are changing so quickly, which is also not good for the country. Let me tell you something about this forestry company. This is quite like a company like Austria, Bavaria and elsewhere. These are, in any case, countries that are hard to accuse of returning to social property. These models are also relatively new there. If you look, for example, when was the adoption of an Austrian law establishing such a society — in 1995, if I am not mistaken, I think a little of it. If you look at when such a law was passed in Bavaria – in Germany they have land things arranged – I think in 2005. And Bavaria is also difficult to say that it is a land in Germany that is very fast against some social property, but they have observed a natural source, just as they observe water. Then it was a question of why we should not unite – because of the smallness of Slovenia – all professional institutions and economic society. Here the answer is very simple; where this is due to their very clear views that there can be no management within one institution — that is, work on the market — cannot be in the same institution as supervision, such as state planning or even the work of such activities in the private forest. [[…]] It just doesn't work. Within the European Union, the legal order does not allow this, because it protects private interest by not allowing the same institution to engage in market activity and then performing certain public functions that may harm its competitors even if they are done maliciously. As far as the position of the Ministry of Finance is concerned, I must say that, together with the Ministry of Finance and experts, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food has also prepared a document called the Business Plan Base. Here are all business projections for the period N+5, so for the following year plus the next 5 years; even very conservative, if I may mention, in terms of quantity as well as sales prices, which are at this moment, I think is significantly higher. This was the reason why the finance ministry and ministers agreed and adopted such a law in the government, because it is at the heart of a business plan that has exactly the same structure as a business plan. However, the fact is that the business plan must be adopted by the management. However, I very much agree with those debates that have been, which some such debates have been, that the essence of efficiency and effectiveness is whether we will have a supervisory council and whether we will have a management that is chosen only in the way that they are experts who can also work in the field of the economy. Therefore, however unusual it may have seemed to many [[…]] If you look at the structure of the Supervisory Board, this is not the structure of the Supervisory Board, to which the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food has a major impact, only one member of the six is proposed — and only proposed — by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. And pay attention to something else; not everyone can simply be proposed in this supervisory council. We went through the system to assess the competent commission of the Slovenian State holding company's competence, which is appropriate, for the supervisory councils. Only then do four ministries choose and propose proposals to the Government for a supervisory board. Why four ministries? That's what you could say. Clearly, the Ministry of Forestry and Food as competent, the Ministry of Economy as a ministry, which is also very interested in the development of the entire forest and forest chain, the Ministry of Finance – is to be known why, because it is the largest public money keeper in this country – and why is the Ministry of the Environment? Because this society also has important objectives in the area of co-natural work with forestry, not least, we also have a new Nature in the state forest, which is why the group is so composed. Later on, however, I will also answer the remaining operational questions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vesna Vervega has the floor. Get Mrs. Maria Bachič ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A respected minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me first to congratulate all citizens and citizens of Slovenia, especially the inhabitants of Styria, on today's national holiday. Today we have all been united or united in two things; the first is that wood is the most important renewable resource in Slovenia and has strategic importance is strategic raw material, and the second thing is that better management and management of private and state forests is needed to preserve the environmental, economic, protective, social, energy function of the forest. The law we are currently considering is a step in this direction, in fact a step towards a systemic solution, as we have already heard today. As mentioned, the forest covers about 58.3% of the area in Slovenia, which is slightly more than 1 million 180 hectares and the wood stock of Slovenian forests is according to the forest management plans of the Slovenian Forest Institute about 346 million cubic metres or 293 cubic metres per hectare. We are pleased to note that forests have been strengthened for decades from the point of view of wood stocks and growth. This is mainly due to planned forest management and partly to changes in the management or wood stocking methodology. The natural annual increase is greater than the cut and the cut is around 70 per cent of the quantity determined by the Institute for Forests as a sustainable limit each year. Government economic analysts of Umarja also note that the statistically viewed intensity is cut out among the lowest in the European Union countries. Therefore, if we view forests as a source of wood, it is not endangered in Slovenia. National forests in Slovenia are 21% and by 2020 it is estimated that about a million 500 000 cubic metres of wood can be felled annually in these forests. 18 concessionaires in state forests cut, sell wood and pay concessions for every cubic metre of wood to the state. Thus, the profits generated by concessionaires in this regard should be used primarily for the proper management of forests and for the successful operation of the company. Most often, however, there is a disproportionateity in this part between the selling price of wood and the concession taxes on the State. Let me summarize one of the comments on this issue. The concession charged by the State is too low. The profit generated by private forest economies is therefore good, but experts say that the real profit is often hidden for another operation – because it would be too much profits for concessionaires but too much in the eyes to beat, there are intermediate companies in the game. The concessionaire sells this wood at a lower price, and at a high final price they market it abroad, especially in Austria. Therefore, according to the projections, the revenues of the newly established company after the termination of the concession contracts will amount to around EUR 17.5 million per year, which is an important fact. The need to regulate forest management also shows the fact that private companies that work successfully in Slovenia are engaged in wood production, that is, construction, production of wood products. So we have potential in Slovenia, but a favourable environment needs to be created where such production would actually be paid off. Let me stress that the next key article, according to the SMC Group, is also the most important article within this newly established company, the added value and added value to the entire project is the final product or final products from which we create green jobs and ensure the completion of the process from wood to wood or forest to forest chain. In view of all of this, I believe and I hope that today we are really talking about the Slovenian wooden Renaissance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Bachič has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Hello, government representatives and a minister who's out there somewhere. When we hear in the debate about weaknesses in forest management in the past, let me remind you that the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food proposed, on the basis of the analysis of forest management in the Republic of Slovenia so far and the examination of the solutions in this area in the Member States of the European Union, a change in the regulation of the management of state forests and a proposal for a law on the management of state forests. By establishing a new state company, management of forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia is thus transferred to a business environment where a better business outcome can be achieved. Here it is important to say that the planned changes do not bring new jobs in forestry at the expense of existing and unnecessary spending of budgetary money and the pressure on increased unemployment, social transfers and the economic situation of the economy. It is also important to mention that it is not a concern to lose existing jobs of workers employed by current concessionaires, as these are the ones most qualified for forest jobs, and thus will certainly be preferred in the performance of works in the forest. I support the proposal for the law and the establishment of the Slovenian State Forests because I believe that they will be able to manage our forests with an invaluable natural wealth of quality wood, and the forest also has an important productive, ecological and social function, of course, in an appropriate proportion. It is also of great importance that forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia provide a high level of biodiversity and conservation of forest ecosystems, as well as many public benefits, such as healthy clean drinking water, recreation, recreation, hunting, tourism and so on. Forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia must also become a more important factor in the conservation of rural development, namely the conservation of farms and rural areas in the mountain and hilly world. In the past period, we have experienced irregularities in the area of forest exploitation, which must no longer be repeated. I am confident that the Slovenian State Forests will be an example for all forest owners by their management, with profit not only as a saving criterion for success, but also as a preservation of nature, environmental protection, education and training, and thus ensuring the necessary knowledge for future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar has the floor to prepare Mrs Irena Kotnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u70	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I've heard many times today that wood is Slovenian silver. Yes, it is. At the same time, I wonder how the state as owner of state-owned companies treats Slovenian silver – Slovenian banks, Cimos, Paloma and so on. How much money has she invested in this Slovenian silver through recapitalisation? At the same time, I wonder what the value of this Slovenian silver is. How much can we sell this Slovenian silver for today? In my opinion, not even a few pounds of iron. And that's because you have to cover their loss first. The contributions to these state-owned companies were made by the State, by the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Let me also say correctly that there are also companies that are doing good, but there is a balance between how much income comes from good companies to the budget and how much the country gives to bad companies, and we can see very quickly what we are talking about. Today the question was also raised whether it would not be better if these companies were privately owned today. Wouldn't they be better off? Wouldn't these societies be doing much better today? These are the questions that require an answer. When dealing with timber in a way that re-establishs a new state-owned economy due to the practice of state-owned companies – far from being optimistic in this project. Now we have the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests, which was also his task to manage forests, with wood. Here are all the possibilities for the way or management to change. As we are establishing a new society, we will actually take away a large part of the income from the Agricultural Land Fund. There is no answer as to how the Agricultural Land Fund will yet settle the denationalisation commitments. That's an open question, too. The open question is also open to all concessionaires who employ approximately 400 to 500 employees six months before the end of the concession. Yeah, there'll be new calls. We don't even have an approximate business plan for a new company! This is said to be extremely uncertain, unclear, but it is only clear that we need 20 million to start an economic society without any justification, guidance on what these funds will be spent on. In short, there is no clear future, there is no clear vision and I fear that Slovenian wood, which is today silver, will be in time Slovenian wood bronze, copper or even less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mrs Irena Kotnik has the floor to prepare Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u72	Dear Prime Minister, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, colleague and colleague! Today, we would touch on the importance of education in forest management and the wood-processing industry. Despite our awareness of the importance of the forest and the woodworking industry, we are in a very unenviable situation today. If we just look at that we used to have 40,000 jobs, in 2013 we record only 9 000 760 more jobs in this area. According to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, the possible annual intervention of wood in state forests is more than 1.2 million cubic metres and therefore the potential to increase the number of jobs is extremely high. Compared to countries where the area of forestry and forestry is properly regulated, every 100 cubic metres of processed wood represents one job and in Slovenia we do not know how to ensure the sustainability and management of forestry jobs. Within the framework of the public hearing, opinions and proposals were also presented by the Faculty of Biotechnical Engineering, the Department of Forestry and Renewable Forest Resources and the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art. Their proposals included, among other things, providing as many jobs as possible, creating green jobs, hiring only skilled workers, providing apprenticeships to forest students and enabling research work. It is therefore necessary to enable the establishment of professional staff in the area of forests and forestry and to support education and scientific research. It is essential that workers who are adequately qualified in demanding places of employment of foresters. The new company will therefore be the largest forest and forestry company in the country in terms of production, so that it will be possible to offer comprehensive practical training to professional forest personnel of all profiles. Two other examples of good practice in Slovenia could be touched here. I'd like to touch M Sore first. M Soro was awarded a passive window by the World Institute for Passive Construction in the wooden window category by M Sora. Why? Because they invested in knowledge and innovation and they succeeded. Their fundamental development was strategically planned for years to come. They pursued the needs of the market and implemented them immediately into their products. If I touch the Maribor company Ledinek. A hundred years ago, it was a family co-worker workshop, and now it is an internationally recognised and established company in the field of design and manufacture of woodworking machinery and equipment with almost 300 employees. Machines and technology lines have been built in more than 45 countries, and in Slovenia none have been built, but they have succeeded. Why? They invested in development and yet there is no development without knowledge and education. We have before us the Proposal for a Law on Forest Management owned by the Republic of Slovenia, which supports efforts in this direction. We have examples of good practice, we have a plan and we want as many young workers as possible, we want new jobs and value added growth for employees in the woodworking sector. I therefore believe that this law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Please turn off the microphone. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Get Mrs. Andreja Potočnik ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u74	Thank you for the floor, Madam President-in-Office. Dear Secretary of State with a fellow member from the Ministry of Agriculture, dear colleagues and colleagues! If oil is synonymous with wealth, then I agree that Slovenian forest is Slovenian wealth. And if we are talking about oil, we usually also get the sheiks association, then unfortunately we all have to agree here that we also have Slovenian sheiks who have taken advantage and still take advantage of Slovenian forests. We're probably together as far as this point is concerned. Of course, wood is our wealth. We have a million 184 thousand 526 hectares of forests in our country. That's 58.4 percent of the total surface. And what's good? It's good for wood to grow. Every year new wood grows, new wood mass for about 9 million cubic metres. Every year. And yes, we don't know that until today. We don't know! I am disappointed by those who say that this is a system law, that it is perhaps the most important law of this coalition in this mandate. If so, colleagues and colleagues, then a little more should be written in the Smart Specialisation Strategy, this is a document which, as you know, was adopted by the government on 20 September this year, it is said, two months ago. It says very little about wood. Chapter 2.1.2, entitled Smart Buildings and a House with a Wood Chain, states that focus areas and technologies are the following: for the first time – advanced housing units, for the second time – smartly built environment with building management systems, for the third time – smart devices and for the fourth time – advanced building materials and elements, including wood and wood composites. So, after all, wood is something just mentioned. I would agree that this is a very important matter, but by our understanding, after understanding the New Slovenia - Christian Democrats is a wrong concept. Once again, the country will be involved in managing our natural wealth. Yeah, you'll say we're people, so we're all in! Yeah, that's not true! Are we all involved in the management of the state property managed by the Slovenian State Holding? After this logic, we might expect that Slovenian State Holding would then have a hand over Slovenian state forests. He doesn't. So it's another concept again. Mr Židan quoted our President, Mrs Ljudmilo Novak, as being fair, it would be right to say the source and then to link her statement to our position today, when we said that this area could be taken over by the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests, which is owned by the State. That's what we wrote in our position. When I was on the road and then I was educated as an independent entrepreneur, I presented my business model in education, equipped with financial indicators, what will be the return, what will be the cost, what will be the profit. Not for your education, for your own sake. My two sons, the entrepreneurs, did the same. We don't see a business model here today, how these things are going to work. I want to see this, maybe not in law, but I wanted to see one presentation by the government, by the Ministry, to see what this cluster will be like. Slovenian state forests, d. o. o., are there likely to be some kind of holding company under which some grapes will be, or are there likely to be many parts — or what will happen? That's what we want to know. Of course, then we also wonder who will control the business there at level three, level four, whether these Slovenian forest shakes will continue to work, as it is called – I apologize for this expression. That's what we're afraid of. We're afraid we're going to some concept where there's no real ransom. What will we do with these 9 million – of course, now I am talking about the Slovenian level – with the 9 million cubic pounds of wood that we grow, nature gives us, what will be the ransom? Are we ready – we see that there is not much money in the budget, virtually nothing for this company, for this chain. Of course, there is a need for a chain, Mr Škodnik knows much about it and from his mouth to God's ears, as they say. He said that in 10 years we can have between 10,000 and 20,000 new jobs. But for God's sake, give us a little bit more about how to get there! I am the first to sign a concept that will drink water, as it is said, with both hands, because we need – a hundred times in this room I have already said – a new 60,000 jobs. And if the wood gives us 10 grand - a hat down!
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mrs. Andrej Potočnik has the floor. Get Mr. Franz Jurša ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u76	Dear President, Honourable Minister, colleague and colleague! We all agree that wood is certainly a good thing for the future, not only in Slovenia, but elsewhere. In view of the implementation of the predecessors, in order to be afraid of what might arise from this law, let me read a quote from my colleague Dr. Francija Pohlevni from the Department of Forestry of the Faculty of Biotechnical Engineering in Ljubljana, who is certainly an expert in this field. He says, "The new law on forest management is not ideal, but worse than it has been so far, it cannot be for the wood industry." That can tell us something, too. So if we're going to go any better, we have to make a difference. I read on the Internet that in 2010 at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia they had a desire to establish a sectoral directorate at the Ministry of Economy. Today, in 2015, the government of Dr. Mir Cerar made this wish come true. Far from being enough, this does not mean that it is enough, but it is certainly a shift in the right direction. I personally believe, and I believe that also colleagues in the SMC, that forest management must be necessary in direct connection with the wood-processing industry. Today, the greatest added value is that we make something out of our wood. Unfortunately, today, a truckload of logs is taken abroad, which then comes back at a higher price. I think that the tree cut in Slovenia must be cut down in Slovenia as a matter of urgency. Not only do we have to strive to process or process as much of this wood at home as possible; it is said that we are making final products. We already have a lot of good practices: skeletal building of wood, assembly houses that are largely made of wood, massive houses of wood, building furniture, it is said, houses, windows, doors, clock can be seen by a colleague, glasses, purses, jewelry, it is said, the idea is endless. I am pleased that I was able to attend an event at the Faculty of Architecture this year where students for architecture presented their ideas. You can't believe the ideas that came! The potential in Slovenia is absolute. However, it is necessary to ensure an appropriate environment, a business environment, in order to further develop this potential. High added value was mentioned. Personally, the high added value is certainly not that the truck takes everyone to Austria and then comes back to cut wood. This is not an added value. We have to do this at home, here, in Slovenia, because I know we know and we can. Yes, and indeed, domestic Slovenian wood certainly does not mean quality furniture. However, it is necessary to provide for those who have the idea of having a wire that deals with allowing them to have better conditions; it is said that wood is bought in Slovenia and for cheaper money. Another interesting information, where there is still great potential. Slovenia has a larger forest area per capita and cuts it by half less than Austria. So, there's still a lot of options. I support the current bill's proposal, especially in this work, in order to provide a comprehensive and transparent solution. The aim of the law, I stress, must primarily be to promote forest and forestry work. It is said that the emphasis is also on the start of forestry work, which is currently underdeveloped. We must no longer allow it to be earned only by the cold, but we do not care enough about the supply of Slovenian sawmills. Slovenia needs new jobs and we have an opportunity with this law and I therefore call on you to take advantage of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Mag, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, spoke. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Madam President. Just allow me to answer the questions that are often asked, even during today's debate, and these are questions about how the remaining denationalisation beneficiaries are being paid, as regards compensation for their inability to use. Not to talk about the law itself, why it happened, the marriage is like this, and it needs to be respected to the end. At this point, we have the following number available, and this is that we have 13 out-of-court claims, which are unresolved, of which 4 are still at a definitive level, but these claims have a value of 1.2 million euros. Then we have 18 requests from the parties, and these requests are, while the way is not yet completed, worth €22.8 million, totalling €24.1 million. These are applications for inability to use. At the moment, we also have on the special budget item from the current and previous years of operation the Fund deposited 28 million, so that in essence money is sufficient to cover it. In addition, if you have actually been paying attention to the draft law before you, it is first written that from the forest fund, where a percentage of the annual sales of the forest range are underway, the tasks that are under law are being carried out. We don't see any risk here. Then there were issues, the forest law and the state forest management law. It's not the same content. The forest law is about forest management, whether it's private or it's a state forest, and inside there are all the tasks that are important to sustain our sonar forest and this openness that we have. The Law on Management is essentially the law – the Austrians call it, but we too probably call it lex specialis – which is a special law because the economic society that manages the state forest represents a partial derogation from special law, economic law and therefore it is a special law. So when we talk today about the law on governance and management of the state forest, we are dealing with an economic law which is the basis for this society. In particular, that the society is in a way – and nevertheless, I ask you kindly, respected and respected – to be careful that it does not own the Slovenian state forest. The Slovenian state forest remains directly owned by the State and this company pays rent or charges, which is measured as a percentage of the annual realisation. That's important information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Jurša has the floor to prepare Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u80	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Nice greetings to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, as well as to fellow workers! The greeting also applies to all others who are or are in the hall. I didn't see anyone say any particulars at first. It is true that the minister spoke of the extent of the state forest, that there are some 240 thousand hectares of these forests owned by the state. I must also say that the annual possible slaughter in these forests is 1.5 million cubic metres of wood, that the annual income of concessionaires is €70 million. If we add wood industries here, it's 170 million euros. The concession fee amounted to €16 million last year, a net profit of about €5 million. Last year, this was €4.56 million. This is said to be a relatively high amount and very important data. This does not mean that this information cannot be significantly better with the new proposal of the law. I'm not going to talk about what's been done and what hasn't been done about the concessionaires. These are the findings of certain other bodies which must be the findings of certain other bodies. Today we are talking about the law on forest management owned by the State, and we have to define ourselves in some way in the parliamentary groups to this law. I can safely say that in our Group we are assessing that the concession method was not appropriate and that it has to be amended in some way. The proposal for a new law also defines this. The State, as owner of the forest, has found that there is not enough concession fees, that there is a shortage of quality wood from state forests and that there are increasingly fewer jobs in state forests. Some comparisons could be taken, but these comparisons are indeed worrying that so many jobs have been lost from the past in state forests. These shortcomings are also addressed by a new law. Of course, the solutions he offers are not appropriate or appropriate to all. Above all, those who want immediate and as great a profit as possible from the forest and wood do not see the other benefits of the forest in any case. Other benefits of the forest are also important. This kind of started for 20 years. Of course, no one who should have taken this into account in the past did. Members and Members of our delegation are convinced that it is in Slovenian forests, whether it is national or private forests, enough work for everyone, of course, with the right approach and organisation of forest management. In our view, the draft law, which is in the process of adoption, also makes this possible. By the way, let me mention the consequences of this year's massive cranial attack. In Slovenian spruce forests, many teams are eliminating the consequences of this disease from all over Slovenia. This is not enough, they are also from Austria, Croatia and Bulgaria, and we are still witnessing labour shortages and delays in the rehabilitation of these forests. Even in the years to come, it shows no significant difference. The biggest and most important novelty introduced by the law relates to the sale of wood. Over the past 20 years, wood has been sold by concessionaires, and in the future it would be most performed by representatives of the Slovenian state forest or by a company that is a Slovenian state forest. It is clear to all of us that business, money and profits are generated in the sale of wood. We also take into account the new model for the management of state forests and this law will be assessed on the basis of the effects of the sale of wood. And another advantage for warnings; the competence of the new company to sell timber eliminates a number of problems in the wood market. Wood from state forests will be available to all interested buyers under the same conditions, in quantities and quality desired. At the same time, security of supply and the possibility of long-term timber supply contracts are ensured. I did not mean to mention the wood processing industry or, as they are professionally called, the forest and forest chains. I must agree with all those who do not see enough commitments in the current bill to actually see something happen in the field of logging and the development of the processing industry in Slovenia. It is important to know that in the past the highest number of jobs have been lost here. Members and Members of our parliamentary group have been constantly alerting both the coalition partners and those responsible at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food and the Directorate for Wood at the Ministry of Economic Development. The starting points for the business plan of the new company Slovenian National Forests should also be finalized to ensure optimal conditions for the start-up and development of the woodworking industry in Slovenia. Members and Members of our parliamentary group will confirm this law at the first stage of the hearing by actively participating in the further discussion and completion of certain articles of this Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor. Let's get Mrs. Marinka Levicar ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u82	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Nice greetings to the Minister, the permanent invitees, colleagues and colleagues! Today there is much talk about the management of state forests, although we have about a million 184 thousand hectares of forests in Slovenia, of which only 240 thousand are owned by the country, about 19% and the other 81% are privately owned, about a quarter of all citizens of Slovenia, about 460 thousand, and some are owned by municipalities. The Blood Law is the Law on Forest Management, currently in force, under which concessions were granted almost 20 years ago and most concessions for the management of state forests expire in mid-2016. State forests are managed by concessionaires who employ approximately 300 to 500 people, and this contract runs over a good half year. In my opinion, the Ministry should first go to the amendment of this umbrella Forest Act, where it would simplify and modernise forest management – all in Slovenia. We know that we have about 100 employees in the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests, that we have over 700 employees in the Institute of Forests as a professional institution, of which about 400 are local, regional foresters, we have the Forest Institute and I don't know what else – many employees and very few results. It would be time for the government to take on these changes of the roofing law and also plan or arrange forest management to help those farmers who do not have only forests or are not just dealing with livestock, but to help them survive, even in the vicinity of forests owned by the state. That is why it seems inappropriate for us to see that the State or the Ministry is now dealing only with the management of state forests in this way – and in my opinion too late – because when a company is set up and before it acquires contractors under the Law on Public Procurement for logging in these forests, in practice it will also take up to one year and more to complete all procedures, and I am afraid that by mid-year or mid-term, these state forests will be without a controller and will be stopped by the end of the year and a thousand 300 to thousands of 500 workers will be without a proper job in the current concessionaires. That is why I believe that the ministry is now somehow in power and at night solving this situation that will arise next year. In fact, under the current law, the State or the Fund of Agricultural Lands should sign contracts with new concessionaires for a period of ten years, and of course this will not happen now, the State is solving this in a different way, as the Minister says or as the neighbouring countries do, but do not take into account our specifics as regards own fragmentation, agriculture, the agricultural development strategy in Slovenia. I am afraid that with these operators who will acquire them under the new law, that this company will only look at profit, that they will cut everything on average, and that where there is the greatest gain, there will not be any policy behind it that will allow better management of both municipalities and individual farmers, especially those altitudes that are already engaged in forestry, and that this will represent a small share of the economy, and that also because of the new rural development programme, where there are significantly fewer subsidies, they will not survive, and that the country will be able to help in this way to grant some concessions despite these farmers, so that, on the basis of a programme to be drawn up by the Agricultural Forestry Chamber with its advisory services, they will be able to provide both rural survival and survival in particular to these mountain farmers. In any case, I think that the government or the ministry is late by adopting a new forest management law that would change or modernise management with all the forests in Slovenia, not only with the state, but now we have been discussing here for a long time just about state forests as if they were the only ones to be saved. The country should also take care of those forests where the potential of these forests is underexploited, as they would follow a policy, would mitigate some economic damage, which is done by preventing wood growing up from being cut down and used for the right purpose. In addition, the ministry and the government should be aware that it is necessary to revive the wood processing industry, which, by adopting this law, by getting some more money from the cutting or the extraction, will continue to be exported and we will export the national wealth, not the added value. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia under the leadership of Janez Janša is 27. 6. 2012 adopted an action plan to increase the competitiveness of the forest forest forest chain in Slovenia by 2020 with the promotional slogan Les is beautiful. The document defines wood as the strategic raw material of Slovenia, the action plan on the basis of the analysis of the situation sets out the objectives, measures, indicators and deadlines for intensifying forest management and for the recovery and development of wood processing and the energy use of its residues. The activities of the government of Janez Janša were a decisive forecast for a programme change in the management of state forests. If the government of Janez Janša had not fallen in March 2012, programme changes would have been made in a legal and timely manner and would have coincided with the conclusion of concession contracts in 2016 – thus better management of state forests. After that time, however, the government did not continue with this project, and everything remained, and that is why we have come into the situation we are in. I cannot support this law in such content, but in general, to devote 20 million now to modernisation or to new cutting machines, if these 20 million were intended for wood processing, where added value would be added, I would be happy to confirm this law. However, it is equipment that is more than enough in the area of Slovenia for concessionaires and other private operators, and I do not know why the state is now fighting with another new company that will increase the capacity of cutting, cutting and scrapping, but nothing else, I think that these funds should be spent through the Ministry of Economy in the processing of this wood in order to have some strategic action plans. Even if the wood remains in the woods for some time, and partly the damage is done by the fact that the wood is ripe for cutting, the greater the damage is if this tree, which grows 50 and 100 years, is now in excess of its demand and we take it to export. That is why it seems to me that these measures or this law and this way of forest management are currently incorrect and that the Government – without having only more ministers on the supervisory board of this company – does not mean anything. It is necessary to make the right strategy, to have a vision, a strategy and to go into added value, to create as many new jobs as possible, so that we can only create or acquire more foreign operators, because companies will be registered outside and thus profit or added value will go into this basic job out of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The word is from the Minister of Magic. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u84	Thank you, Chairman. Let me answer a few questions. First of all, I agree that one of the previous governments has adopted the Les Action Plan is beautiful, and before that it must be said that it started before another government before that, namely that we were the initiators of the former Minister Mrs Radičev and I, and I am glad that the next government has accepted it. And the current government is also implementing it. How do you see that? Perhaps as an interesting thing, it is good to look at the business of the wood industry in 2014 and 2011, because there has been a conversion. It's not a bounce yet, but it's a twist. The industry is growing again, the industry is doing a good job again, and it is also increasingly exporting. Last year we have already come close to billions of euros in realisation, and these are trends that may also be the result of a new awareness of the importance of the forest forest chain. Also, only the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which is responsible for forestry, plus some very little forestry, as far as rural development allows, has invested in the forest and forestry chain through this programme – that is, this forestry work, mostly as a craftsmanship – over 100 different development projects. If we look at the new rural development programme for forestry and forestry, we are spending more money. Because anyway, we need a financial leverage to make investments and then some new products. That's a first. Secondly, what I would like to say is the question previously raised whether the new state forest company will also take into account the so-called environmental aspects. Here's what I'd like to say. The basic objectives of the company’s operation are to take into account the public interest and the objectives of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of nature conservation and awareness in relation to climate change. In view of the practice of similar companies in the European Union area, we can rightly expect the new company to become an example of good practices in the area of management of natural resources or all the goods and services of forest ecosystems. The company will have to manage forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with the objectives of the national forest programme. By the way, it was previously said that we do not have one; in Slovenia we have a national forest programme, existing legislation and forest management plans, which all together represents a sufficient protector or completely prevents any overexploitation of state forests. Before that, fear was also expressed about the timeline. It is true that I myself wanted this concrete law to be passed earlier, but it must be said that it also had to be taken into account that there was a need for coalition and other coordination. In the meantime, it was said that the law was formed in a narrow group, which is not entirely true. The stakeholders with whom the law has been coordinated and who have been very actively involved are the following: Ministry of Finance, Ministry of the Environment and the Free – if you want to, even specific names can be read – Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, Ministry of Law, Ministry of the Republic of Slovenia Inspectorate for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests, Institute of Forest Slovenia, Forestry Institute of Slovenia, Biotechnical Faculty – Department of Forestry, Slovenian State Holding, Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, Umanoter and so on. So the circle of those I hope to say are experts too was quite broad. How, though, can we now proceed with the management of this society? At 30. 6. The 2016 concession contracts for the bulk of state forests and with 1 shall expire. Seven. 2016 The company fully assumes management of forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia. In concession after 1. Seven. 2016 remains only 850 hectares of forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia, it is exclusively for concessions awarded under the invitation to tender for mountain and hill farms and two educational institutions, namely Šentjur School Centre and the Šentjur Central Forestry and Forestry School Postojna. The company will continue to obtain qualified operators for cutting and harvesting wood and for carrying out farming works and will organise the sale of wood itself, taking into account the public procurement system. As a result of the transition to a new system of state forest management in mid-2016, the reason for the termination of concession contracts will also be adjusted to two parts. The first part, the second half of 2016, for felling and harvesting of wood will remain in the forests only individual objects which represent the indicative right of the annual level of logging. Therefore, we expect that most of the cuts will likely develop in the so-called tree selling system. Tenders will be published before July 2016 and will be basically similar to those made by the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests to broadcast works in the so-called Non-Vulnerable Forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia. We anticipate that such a way will be maintained to a lesser extent later, but it will be used mainly in small and scattered parcels. In 2017 and later, the company will, subject to the rules of public procurement, provide work for the execution of the cut and bring wood to the trucking centre. In the invitation to tender, the company will determine the quantity of felling trees and the assembly of the spatial unit on which the cuts and harvesting will be carried out, the manner, conditions and criteria for the selection of operators in the transmission of individual parts of the national years. The company will sell the wood itself. We are aware that part of the forest and the sale of timber are key elements in the new organisation, with which we want to improve the management of state forests so far and create the conditions for the development of the wood industry in Slovenia. Therefore, the company will have to continue to draw up and publicly publish all the rules concerning the modalities and conditions and criteria for selecting operators for the submission of individual works in State forests and the ways and conditions for the sale of forest wood varieties. These rules shall be adopted by the company in agreement with the Minister responsible for Forestry and on the basis of the opinion of the Supervisory Board, since, as a company operating in state forests, it is committed to achieving all the objectives set out in the law and in addition to the narrower management of forests, to ensuring the development of rural areas and the conservation of farms, to ensuring the further development of the forest chain and to contributing to the conservation objectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marinka Levicar has the floor. Get Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister with his team, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! The new law governing the management of state forests is important for both the state and the municipality, especially for those municipalities that have many state forests in their area. There are 170 such municipalities in Slovenia, as my group leader Mr. Jurša has already said, and only these municipalities received €4.5 million on an annual basis from forest rent. The municipalities are expected to use most of these funds to build and maintain local roads, local infrastructure, which is very long in some municipalities, and therefore these funds are urgently needed. Let me mention, however, that the owners of private forests, 80 per cent of them in Slovenia, who also use these local and forest roads, do not contribute to this fund or pay the municipalities, which I do not think is right. Therefore, in our Group of Members, we will propose that this area also be regulated in the amendment of the comprehensive forest law to be considered next year. The Desus Group will and will endeavour to provide in the forest fund sufficient resources, the so-called forest rents, to repay its obligations to the municipalities, which means that the municipalities in which the state forests are located should receive at least the funds they have received from the rent so far. At least that's what I'm stressing. As a member, I was elected to the 4th constituency, which is in the municipality of Kočevje, the municipality which has the largest share of state forests among all Slovene municipalities. Unfortunately, this municipality also has the highest unemployment rate, which is 25% of this rate. Since a large part of the wood industry and woodworking industry in the municipality of Kočevina have collapsed in 20 years, the municipality of Kočev is particularly affected by this and advocates a better management of this area by means of a new law. The current concession model for managing the municipality, as I have already said, has not made any progress – quite the contrary! The only bright point is Sneznik, Kočevska Reka, which is also recognised by the State as a strategic investment and by this law includes it in the form of a capital investment by the State in the newly established Slovenian State Forests. Expectations in the congregation and among the people regarding this new law are high. In the municipality they are also trying to make a breakthrough in the direction of development and better use of wood in Kočevsko. These are the days where the one-week festival Les is more. The municipal councilors also urge the Government and the legislator to take account of these decisions and to draw up a law that will bring new jobs to this forest congregation and, consequently, the comprehensive development and establishment of this society. The establishment of a single state company is therefore a step in the right direction. However, in order for the company to be able to carry out all the tasks set out in the proposal for a law, it should be said at the time of its establishment, trust and do everything for a successful start and later work. The draft law defines the initial amount of capital that the State contributes to its establishment and operation. Financial mechanisms are also defined to help create the conditions for the establishment of a forest-forest chain to a certain extent. What escapes us in the Desus Group is the amount of the annual compensation that the company is supposed to pay in the forest fund. The amount of the annual refund is that criterion which explains the state's attitude and expectations towards the new company. Over-exhaustion of the company during its first years of operation will certainly lead to difficulties in its current business and hamper the expansion of its activities. In Desus, we believe that it is necessary to allow the company to consolidate financially and human resources in the first years of its operation. We have warned about this and will continue the process of adopting a law on forest management owned by Slovenia. This law must certainly be adopted, so we will unanimously support it, as we have already foretold. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Danilo Anton Ranc has the floor to prepare Mr Jan Škoberne. Here you go, Mr. Rance.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u88	President, thank you for your word. This time, I will be briefer because it is quite a time for my colleagues to discuss. Let me first say that I am surprised that, in fact, some of the Members we meet in the corridors have, in principle, repeatedly supported this law. I was already happy that there will finally be an economic theme on the agenda in Parliament that will produce a good result. However, I see from practice that with many conclusions on this issue, which the Committee on Agriculture has addressed, we have not come very far, and now, finally, one correct solution has come to the table, and again, the same Members, who point to this also in the corridors, are setting some dilemmas that are virtually non-existent. Let me just say that in the period from 2012 when Parliament first began to discuss this seriously, up to now, this has caused economic damage over a period of three years due to the inefficiency of management in this area of a billion 200. On the other hand, we're setting up various commissions of inquiry, we're spending money on photovoltaics, and here, when we have a real opportunity to make a difference, we're asking some questions that aren't practically necessary here. Of course, I am counting on the fact that I have also seen some opposition Members in the debate, that they see that something has to be done, that we will finally come to the right solution with some minor comments. Let me also point out that this has raised the question to Members of the groups of friendship with Austria, Germany, how they manage the forest. Of course, they immediately replied that wood was identified as a strategic natural raw material and not used for export and that they had reached consensus in this area because they considered the area of forestry and forestry to be a strategic issue for the economic system. The economic damage that I have been talking about is around €8.8 billion over the last 20 years, which is to be seen, taken into account and prevented from continuing this damage over the next 10 years and would totalled 12 billion damage in various areas: inefficient management, the collapse of the timber industry and so on. I would also say this, this large export of wood, this is a big problem, we export almost a million and a half cubic pounds of wood without value added, and then import wood back into the form of products and literally open jobs across the border abroad and become a mining mine for the exhaustion of wood. On the other hand, about 200 trucks a day that drive on our roads destroys our roads and burdens our budget. Finally, I would just like to point out that there are also several fellow Members in Parliament who worked in the wood industry and forestry industry to mention Mr Tank and Mr Pogačnik. I think it is time in Parliament for forestry and forestry to shrink species and in some way support, perhaps to supplement this law in a small way, and finally to adopt a law to record a good story in Parliament's history, that we have put the economic theme at the forefront of which we are all dependent, not just us, the whole of Slovenia. I think there's a great opportunity in wood and forestry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Jan Škoberne has the floor. Get Mr. Benedict Kopmeyer ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! The key thing in this law is to turn the story around, not only to talk about profit and economic objectives, but to talk about the forest as a single space; on the one hand, about its economic potential, and on the other hand, about the need to understand it as a living environment, so that we can also place biodiversity conservation as a part of the quality of life, the quality of a living environment, on the other hand. In the debate, it was said, not once, repeatedly, that a vision, strategy must be given and that without it it is not possible to put in place a good new measure, to develop some new societies that will be able to achieve the objectives that we all share in this Chamber. However, many times it has been forgotten to add that the strategy and vision must also be followed by a result, there must be some application, there must be some movement. And in the area of not exploiting but sustainable use of wood and sustainable management of Slovenian state forests, it is certainly a recent time for this movement to take place. Not only because of the economic effects that actually cannot be repeated, because we have heard more or less of them today in every debate, but mainly through the economic and social functions that the forest has as such. This raises a question or a dilemma as to why the state is dealing with this through a society, why the Government is taking on such an important responsibility in managing the forest it owns. Who else would do that? If we all find that this is one of the main sources that Slovenia has at its disposal – in addition to water and, for example, solar energy, which we find, among other things, that we have completely misunderstood and that maybe 2 billion have been over-exploited in energy subsidies that could be used differently or at least better to fertilize – it is, of course, only reasonable that the Government should go to show that it has access to wood, to forest, to potential, to its jobs and to the environment – not only our own but also to the living environment of plants and animals – the relationship it deserves. If a dilemma is raised, whether it should be managed or not, then this debate must be summarised and it must be established that there has been sufficient observation, that there has been sufficient reflection and that it is time for something to happen. And it's happening with this law, it's happening by taking responsibility and it's happening not to say that the task of the future manager is just cutting and harvesting wood, but that he has significantly broader tasks; it is necessary to encourage the chain, and then the task of this management, which is now to be unified, centralised, more efficient, with significantly greater possibilities for so-called Spillover effects, in order to achieve the other objectives. This is a relaunch of small trades related to wood, small economy and, above all, to preserve wood and not exhaust forests, so that we may increase this potential. Only strategies and paper actions do not do this. However, we can rightly hope for this measure, especially on the basis of the fact that the Government and ministers are directly burdened by an enormous burden of responsibility, so that the impact will be as recorded in these strategic documents today. What needs to be said in the end; if – little for a joke – little for a joke – the former Slovenianes building shows what potential the forest has in Slovenia and what potential the Slovenian trade in this title, as well as entrepreneurship, as well as larger companies, has, then it must be said, that we have tremendous expectations for this new society. As has been said several times, they don't just count the words, they count the acts. And this is an act to restore to the Slovenian forest and to the Slovenian woodworking industry what it once manifested through this extremely impressive building of former Sloveniales. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Benedict Kopmeyer has the floor. Get Mr. Simon Zajc ready. Here you go, Mr. Kopmeyer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. All in attendance, all in attendance! As a Korean Member, I would like to point out that in this part of Slovenia we also have a very high proportion of state forests, which are managed by two major concessionaires, namely the Forest Economy Slovenia Gradec and the Forestry Economy Maribor, totalling 35,000 hectares, which is about 10 percent of all state forests. That is why I am very interested in the good solutions that the new law on forest management will bring, I believe, also. There is no secret that the proximity of the Austrian border and the wood processing capacity on the Austrian Koroška magnet are exactly the same for forest economies and private people selling the best quality wood across the border, where the price of wood, payment conditions, the response of woodworkers is significantly better regulated than in Slovenia. In the process of drafting the bill, we keep alerting the proposers and coalition partners – and I must say that we have a very good response – to the importance of adopting such solutions that will contribute to the establishment, including the development of wood-processing chains in Slovenia. I therefore consider that the content of the law on economic activity is a suitable basis for the implementation of the objectives and tasks clearly defined in this law, and that the content relating to the establishment and development of forest and processing chains needs to be complemented both in the law itself and in the origins of the new company's business plan. According to the Directors of Wood at the Ministry of the Economy, such additions are already being prepared. I am confident that the new state forest management regime will allow for a new development momentum wherever the state forests lie, thus creating conditions for work, new jobs and equal access to work for current and future contractors. In particular in the field of timber processing. You can believe that in Koroška we know the mission of wood and forest. Some of this today was also plastic depicted by my two colleagues from Koroška with the products they presented. In the quality of wood – I must remind you, those who did not know this – Stradivari was also convinced, because for his famous violins he also purchased wood from us in Koroška, in the Machine called this area. Of course, I hope that, in the further discussion of the adoption of this law, we will also carry out our mission in the form of a Koror woodworking centre. That is why I also personally support this proposal of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Simon Zajc has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Alexander Kavčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u94	Thank you, Chairman. Nice greetings to the Minister with his associates. Dear Members and Members! Water and forest, this is what we have in Slovenia. The submersible is falling down every year according to Ars' warnings, but we'll be talking about water on another occasion. Today we are talking about the forest; today we are talking more precisely about those 20 percent of the forest owned by the country. This percentage will increase further, this is our strategy to increase the forest area to at least 25%, especially in the border band and where we can round up the property, because this makes sense because the management economy is more efficient. We have heard that in one direction the country should not be owned by forests at all, but to see where is the rakrana of Slovenian forest management. It is also in that we have over 400,000 private forest owners, some of whom do not even know that they have forests, some who know they have them, or are too old to manage them, or are not able to manage them. If these people could sell these woods to the state and then run this company, that's a good thing. In my opinion, the expansion of state forests is also a good thing in this respect that the forests managed by the State are in much better shape, at least in general, than those owned privately. Next year, at the end of June, most of the concessions we have had so far run. The question is how from now on. What do you do? There are immediate ideas to draw or extend concessions further until we figure out what to do. But look, the concessions were 20 years old. The result of these concessions is that we have lost some 30,000 jobs, and we all agree here today that concessions are not the most appropriate way to manage forests in state ownership. Then there is the idea that the existing institutions should manage this by recognizing that this can be a solution, but the Fund was set up for one purpose, due to denationalisation procedures. This denationalisation is slowly ending, but this company, which will be established if it works through it, is said to be not the main purpose of this company. Two things are important to us in the SMC, as far as this is concerned, this company and its operations. The first is, as we have heard many times today, the woodworking industry. Over the past 20 years, it's time to get those lost jobs, at least some of them, back. This company will help the wood chain by providing from now on a long-term supply, guaranteed supply, predictable supply to the wood industry. So now the wood industry will be able to know how much and what kind of wood they can expect for the next five years. Because this will be possible from now on. So far, it has been that each concessionaire has had its own sales routes, its priorities, and this has not affected the timber industry to a greater extent. That's changing now. However, we would like to see that in those parts where there is a wood industry, or in those parts where a private initiative will not cover wood processing, this hole will be filled by this company. This is what we think is absolutely necessary if we really want to achieve what we stand for, we call new jobs and the fact that the refrigeration does not go unprocessed out of Slovenia. No more log can go out without adding value to it in Slovenia – either this company or the private sector. Another thing that is important to us is the transparency of the operation of this company. Transparency must be ensured by ensuring that the whole government is watching over this company. Of course, the Ministry of Agriculture plays a major role here, and the role that must be played visibly is also the Ministry of Economy. In fact, if we are to achieve those goals to encourage the wood chain again, it is imperative that the Ministry of Economy and the whole Government play a greater role in controlling the business and asset management. Today, I have heard a good idea in the views of the Group of Members, and it is possible to consider that this Supervisory Board or company would also have an advisory body composed of NGOs. In my view, it is also wise to think in this direction, because it is a state forest, it is a matter of state-owned enterprises and it is recommended that, in my opinion, it is possible for NGOs and citizens to be heard. To conclude, today or now, we are at this turning point when there is little chance of taking one step forward in the right direction to reverse the negative trend that has been taking place over the last twenty years. So that we continue to manage forests well, because it has to be stressed that the state forests have been well-managed, they are in better condition than those in private ownership. However, it is important to achieve this change of law by creating a re-establishment of the forest and forest chain. For us now, this step is the right step and we will also confirm this law for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Alexander Kavčič, prepare Mr Matjaž German. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u96	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Minister with the team, fellow Members, fellow Members! Allow me to provide some information on our forests myself. With them is covered three fifths of our Slovenia, which means that almost every Slovenian place is near the forest. Slovenians are closely connected to the forest and many walkers can be found in the forest. Our forests consume about 7.5 million tons of carbon dioxide annually, some of which is attached to wood, and produce about 5.5 million tons of oxygen. On a global scale, they represent an important sink of carbon dioxide, and in light of this are the forests of our Slovenia's lungs. The main product of the forest is wood used today in many areas; it is used to make furniture, build houses, produce various tools and accessories, for decorative elements and also for heating. It was somehow said that in Slovenia almost no longer is a company using Slovenian wood as a raw material for the production of chairs. I must certainly point out the exceptional furniture company Murales, which has been fighting for many years in the Slovenian and foreign markets with exceptional high-quality chairs and tables and is certainly among the leading carpenter shops in this part of Europe. Of course, it is also possible to highlight Atrium, a furniture factory that produces top wood products in the area of interior furnishings of dwellings. However, I am pleased that in Slovenia too, the so-called stock exchange has been exposed. You have witnessed the sale on this stock exchange of tens of thousands of euros, which is an exceptional incentive for the entire forest-growing industry. Let me go a few more centuries into history, colleague Kopmajer said earlier that Master Stradivari had been looking for suitable spruce for making violins, and this was indeed found in Slovenian forests. They say there are spruce growing in Slovenia, which also satisfy the most exaggerated ostrich ear. Violin has been an instrument for centuries that requires the skill of designer and sculptor, the predictability of the know-it-all and the ear, which can and can judge when to find the substance, shape and content in the ideal artistic work in the nearest agreement. It is certainly the law presented that guarantees sustainability, co-naturality and multi-purposeness, and all of this is taken into account by the proposed law and, of course, I will also support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž German has the floor. Get Mr. Jože Tanko ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u98	Thank you, Madam President. Nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues! Not only Stradivari, the greatest art are Venice, forests – mainly from my places, coastal, Istrian, mountainous, ponds – have been used to make this monumental, historical and cultural centre, but now tourism, for sure. But we've always been in the debate, at least in recent years, looking for reasons why we don't succeed in one of our two natural resources, one in the form of water and one in the form of wood, somehow waking up to create some added value that would once be one of the leading economic sectors. We are talking about the number 40,000 in the past, some about 30,000, but the fact is that the wood, beside the water that we Social Democrats are trying to put into the constitution as a natural asset of "par excellence", is accessible to all; the wood is the one that can enable us to live a decent life. This is a great opportunity which the Social Democrats and President Dejan jeedan have embarked on in this mandate, as well as in the previous one. But it is time — and today we are here — to discuss, on a well-prepared basis, and to use this material good that we are given and is natural, for the well-being or well-being to which we all aspire. Today, much has already been said about the importance of wood, and I will focus on the importance of dialogue in order to find the right way to create such a basis that it will at least fit to a large extent. Somehow I noticed the contradiction between conservatives and socialists. Some say that everything should be in private hands, but some are not satisfied even if we create and establish a d.o.o., which is exclusively state-owned – I am talking about 20 percent of the forest – which, with the help of not only forests, especially products, create such added value that we know it. So it seems to me that this is the right way, perhaps with some adjustments that life will dictate, but it is a good basis for us to move what we all have been trying to do for so many years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye to all of you! In some of the discussions before me, there was some expectation of cooperation in this project that the profession in the National Assembly should be linked so as to connect others who were supposed to have ambitions to do something about this. Unfortunately, however, I must conclude that Minister Židan did not take advantage of the opportunity to make an effort to present the law in the parliamentary group. Now it is difficult to talk about some cooperation, some higher goals, some common interests, if so ignorantly the law is sent to the National Assembly and then the Minister and Coalition are expected to support any party from the opposition. It's an improper expectation. Secondly, I would expect the Minister to first identify the problems of the existing regime. Is this what was created as a result of the operation of Drnovskov's government and those who then led the Ministry of Agriculture's department when they negotiated with the current gegas about the award of concessions and set concessions for these forests? That maybe that's the problem? Is there a problem somewhere else? The fact that then Minister Smurf and then Secretary of State Booth were negotiating for such a low price of concession is probably a major problem. That's an indisputable fact. The problem is also likely because the government of Janez Drnovšk also burned it at the time. What we have in the field of forestry is one of Drnovskov's bad decisions, but it is not the only one. Everything that has happened in other areas as a result, not only in this reverification, but also in other areas, is the result of equally bad decisions. A whole bunch of chains, industrial chains, not just wooden chains, and others, failed because they were made in those years, there in 1994, 1996, 1998, bad political decisions that led to such matters. You might want to open up some area that's problematic. Over the Slovenian forest is the Institute of Forests; the Institute of Forests makes ten-year plans for all forest areas in Slovenia, makes annual plans, that is to say, where it will intersect, what will be cut, and probably also implements evidence in these areas. At the time of the implementation of the concessions, I do not recall that there would be any problem with the concessionaire anywhere so that the State and the state institution would not be involved. The Forest Office practically decides on everything, that is to say how much will be cut in the global area during the 10-year period, in which departments will be cut, in which ranges will be cut, and this is divided into millimetres. If you don't believe it, look at the forest plans for all the forest areas as well as the annual plans for the pollination. I don't know why, if it's all within a state institution that's subordinated to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, you're now dealing with someone who's doing what the concession gave him, that's what's called forest bickering, harvesting, afforestation, I don't know how to sell forest varieties. If the government has not been able to control the forest area, the forest sector, through its institutions, I do not know why it is now dealing with the concessionaires' business. What's the reason? Here I have heard and before that concessionaires who have obtained some credit from this because they are engaged in the forest invest in all kinds of things. Other companies, including those paying for water concessions, are also engaged in all possible activities and invest in what they then think will bring them some additional return. However, the government does not deal in this way with the use of thermal water, which is also a natural gift, even a profitable activity, obviously. Where problems relating to secession, links and control are problematic, this is entirely on the back of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food and its state institutions, which have an exclusive task of cancelling and controlling forestry activities. This is a problem because these things obviously don't work in the way they should. If these services do not work as they should, the additional problem is that now you want to add commercial activity to them in any way. What is proposed by the law you are proposing and by setting up this company, it is only an extension of one or two steps further into the forest and another commercial activity in this area. And we can see that if these are the problems you are talking about — there is no control in this area. Not in the forest work anymore. Mr Minister, if concessions were too low, you could arrange this by negotiating with existing concessionaires. After all, all these concessionaires would probably have an interest in extending the concession or running for new concessions. We'd probably have an interest, but it obviously didn't work out. And now this company that you gave them, which Drnovskov gave them, long-term concessions, is placed as a bad example, as bad lords of the Slovenian forest. They're an economic branch, they're an industrial activity. What's wrong with that is the state part that didn't work. That's the key problem. State's the problem. Now you are proposing to set up this company for the Slovenian National Forest or whatever it will be called, but in this plan of this law or accompanying documents, there is no record of what you will do with those 500,000 cubicles for which there is no industrial consumer in Slovenia today. He's not here. It's the best cold known as the coolant for a peeled and sliced veneer. This industry is not in Slovenia and there is no answer to what you will do with this quantity from the state forest. If there is no industry here, it means that if you use it for something else, it means grading the raw material. And there's no consumption from the state forest for about 500,000 cubic metres, which has status, I don't know, wood for cellulose, wood for plates and wood. This industry is no longer in Slovenia. So when you set up the Slovenian Forest State Company, you do not have an industrial consumer for these ranges, which means that it will be necessary again and that transport across the border will happen again to the north or to the west side, that is to say Austria and Italy. Or, if this is a veneer's cold, fuelled by ordinary cold, which means 40 per cent lower price effect, or if there is no consumption for roaches, if there is no consumption for wood panels, if there is no consumption for cellulose, it will rot in the forest if we do not sell across Slovenian borders. So, that's it. If you estimate that the state forest is about 20 per cent in Slovenia, this means that if we extend to the entire Slovenian forest, state and private, it means that five times that amount – there is no consumption in the Republic of Slovenia. There's no spending. Iverka in Slovenj Gradc is no longer OK. [[...]] A bunch of work; 50 percent of what it is, it is said, is not industry; Cellulose Krško is no longer one of the most voluminous customers of this bad wood, Iverke, Mebla, Nova Gorica, is probably gone and so on. Now tell us where we will direct this wood raw material from the state forest and from private forests. Those who propose this law should have these things worked out. If the law is based solely on woodwork or sawdust, that is part of the problem. Žagarska hlodina is one part of this, I don't know, about half an hour, there are other varieties left for which there is almost no or almost no industrial consumer in Slovenia. So, what's the effect of this marriage? What are we going to invest 20 million euros for? In order to make a new Iverka, a new factory of medians or lessonite plates, to make a new plant of cellulose or invest in something else? There is no answer to that question. The minister who presented the matter would have to answer these questions if a business plan had been drawn up and we knew where we were going. Now we're talking about Kočev or Ribnica as some of the locations that they are. In Kočev, the key factory that processed the beech varieties fell, that is LIK Kočevje, the entire chain collapsed in Kočev! Why this happened is a question. And it's not the only one that's gone down. Probably because it was among the classic commercial expositions, these were various trades, mercats, sidexies, genes and so on, through which this Slovenian export of wood and other industries had to be carried out, there must have been some other economic artificial society somewhere where profits were kept, and this caused the companies to fail. It's not just the wooden industry, it's the problem of all those industries that have failed. I am sorry that I cannot support this law because I think there are resources in this area, but the government is not getting them in the right way. The only viable or well-functioning in this system are the forest economies that clean up these things by tariffs negotiated with the government. We all know it was too low at the time, let alone now. But the governments that have been should pay some attention to this area and also find out why this has happened. We all know what concessions should be, everyone who has come to know this area at least a little. Why is this less than or four times less than it should be, and this is a question for those who negotiated at the time. I'd expect the minister to take care of these things, too. Not since yesterday, I think the third term is the minister, how long they've been, is the second question, but these things should be settled, gradually and so on. What the Government is proposing is an inadequate response to the problems I have said. We do not have problems or major problems in those who carry out concessions, we have problems further, it is said in the use of forest varieties in higher levels of processing, segmented by the veneer, by the cellulose and by the cold. How could a reasonable government deal with this problem? This law doesn't solve it right now. So my proposal would be that the State or the Minister first consider extending the concessions temporarily, in order to agree on a different concession for these concessions, it is said that this period would be extended by a year or two, and that at that time we would prepare what should already be on the table, this is not. This is said to be how and how we will solve those forest ranges for which currently there is no industry in Slovenia. How would we do that? One way, respected colleagues, is for concessionaires to commit themselves to raising the level of raw material processing in their establishments. More or less, all concessionaires have forest installations. That is to say, if they are now processing 30 percent of what they are cutting and cleaning, they should be raised and raised successfully with some structure. This is just one model, not said to be true, not said to match the expectations of citizens, but this is one way to do it, because this technology, this industry and this employment already exist. So we can do it this way in this area. The second thing I think it would be wise to do is a financial approach through the budget, which we had in previous mandates 2004-2008 when we carried out this tax reform, and these are tax incentives for investing in the timber industry. All those investing in the timber industry could be exempt from certain duties for ten years. This would, not bureaucraticly, not administratively, not in a national way, create conditions for development, and in those who have ambitions in these areas, and in those who already have, say, advanced technology, have an article, have a product and a market. In fact, in this way they would be able to expand without a public official directing who would be able to receive a subsidy or who would be able to obtain it on a public invitation to tender or not. However, those in this system that show an interest in investing, the State recognises some special tax relief. Apparently, this is the case with the Slovenian forest, said Slovenian national wealth, for an approach that could thus be regulated. And those final manufacturers of semi-products or finalised products could build their own technology, their activities and build on it, and also commit themselves to consuming, pumping or exploiting domestic wood raw materials. These would be certain approaches that could be applied, are not new, have already been applied and have proven effective. If you ask any economic operator what he needs or a public tender to run for some state aid or tax relief, everyone will say that the tax relief through the project will somehow apply through investment. In short, this desire of the Ministry and this current government to be almighty in some area is, in my opinion, a gravely flawed one. Strongly flawed because there is no business here at the back; it is said that nothing will happen, because once again state officials will regulate who will be able to obtain the refrigeration and who will not, there will be administrative divisions and quotas and there will be no business back there. In fact, the experience already there, Mr Minister, where you are more at home than here, does not work across the chain, agricultural or any other, otherwise it would not have failed without knowing how many tonnes of individual agricultural crops. I'm sorry. The less the country engages in an economic activity, the more likely it will be to succeed in this area. If you don't believe me, ask Mr. Restoring. If you were to do the same state-owned enterprise on its wells, which would also deal with tourism along with – this is the same activity, the garden concession, the state project at the end, and the country will pick up more, after this philosophy of yours – it is a big question whether you would pick up anything at all. This project of this Slovenian state forest also raises exactly the same issue. I think that it is necessary to let the market do what it has to do itself, that it is the task of the State to create conditions – a condition is not a state-owned enterprise, but a condition would be to stimulate these matters, to put in place control and to ensure the development of those already with resources through the tax system. The country will never invest any of these projects, any of them. The state-owned veneer company will fail, the state-owned cellulose company will fail, the state-owned thermal water pumping company will fail, because interests will be completely different, not commercial, but will deal in every way possible, as has been the case in Bernardino and elsewhere. So, rape with this project suggests that some people have a serious problem, they have severe appetites, but the project is completely incomplete and does not offer any good points for regulating this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magi Food has the floor. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u102	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, too, for all the questions raised. I am pleased that the Minister of Economic Affairs is also with us that he has confirmed to me that the company I come from is currently in 75 percent state ownership. I think that was a question, too. If I understand what's going on, it's going to work. I'm not going to read what I read at the beginning of this day about another government's coalition contract from 2012 to 2015, I'm not going to read, because I don't have it on me, which is what it says in some yellow book, and some hundred of the signs plus, minus, are mentioned somewhere, but that's what it says in those documents. But I'd like to explain this. The first question that has now arisen again is often: How do you comment on the establishment of a new economy in 100% state ownership? Then, at times, the question is: Is this in line with the OECD or European Commission recommendations on the withdrawal of the country from the economy? And here the answer is quite simple. There is a significant difference here between the direction that the government withdraws from the economy, from capital investments, and the necessity of management, management of natural resources or natural wealth owned by the Republic of Slovenia. In the management of forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia, these forests cannot be compared to state capital investments in the economy, as is the case with certain other sectors such as banks, telecommunications or the like. It is simply a matter of managing a natural resource, which, by its content, has distinctly different functions, has an economic, but not only economic, environmental and social area of management of natural resources, to which forests also belong, may constitute a normal or urgent exception, as is the case, for example, for a pervasive case of drinking water, where private corporations seek to pursue an appropriate business. Thus, the management of state forests and some other natural resources has many countries around us, including those we have as examples. Let me mention again, for example, the experience of Austria, which, I think, set up an Austrian forest company in 1995 or they say Österreichische Bundesforste and we have studied this society very much. We have also examined an example that is somewhat similar to that of Austria, since it was later made, this is a Bavarian case, and some other cases and this is also meaningfully summarised because some solutions, which are only in Slovenia or mostly only in Slovenia as specific, then in practice often prove to be inappropriate or beneficial to many others, only the country, and sometimes it is good to take an example of some good foreign practice. Then it's a question of which societies we've studied. I must tell you that we have studied very closely, and there will also be, for example, a minister, a system in Finland, Austria and in German federal countries, lastly Bavaria and Baden-Württemberg, and some systems in Italy, South Tyrol, Furlania-Julia. We also know all the different systems within the European Union and some outside the European Union, such as Canada and the United States of America. The system of Austria and Bavaria was shown to be the most appropriate for the Slovenian situation, with Bavarian reforming their system, which previously brought together public and business functions because their system is new and they had to follow European guidelines, taking Austria's regulation. It separates forestry administration and management with state forests, which is then organised in a society that is essentially owned by the land – there are land owners. Then let me ask you, in the meantime, what if the company were to deal with the loss. But here we have to answer right away. In view of the nature of the business, the company is virtually unable to lose, as it is essentially engaged in a forest exploitation activity where forest-economy plans decide on the extent of the cut, the rental of operators and the way in which it sells. The loss could only be caused by a very severe natural grip, significantly greater than it was, say, in 2014. Here, however, even if such a catch were to take place in the concession relations that we have so far, the state should still pay concessionaires, their costs, their cuts, their harvesting, the sale of timber and would also create a financial hole. Then it may be possible to ask what such an undertaking means for a wood market where a state-owned company will compete with other sellers and traders from private forests. Here is exactly what is important not to allow a state forestry company in any way to bear certain public functions. For example, in practice imagine how a system works, where a state-owned enterprise, which also has competitors in the private sector, that this state-owned company is the one that performs public works, including a reference, and some kind of control in its competitors. This is simply not the case, and this is probably the reason why the European Union does not allow it. A lot of other things, if you're interested, but I just want to say. We have made an economic simulation for the period N+5; so next year plus 5 further years. In this economic simulation, we have taken into account slightly lower or lower prices than on the market. We've taken into account some sort of minimal intervention, we haven't taken into account what we're going to come up with in a few years, if we're good at managing, that's 1.5 million cubicles, but the projection was done in a million to 1.2 million cubic meters. These numbers then also come from numbers intended to fill the forest fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u104	Thank you so much for saying that. I see you're some questions, Minister, which you wrote and answer to yourself because they weren't exposed here. Question, Mr Minister, you said that higher added value should be given to Slovenian forest varieties. I asked you what you would do with about half the attacks on forest ranges that are useful only in the cellulose industry, the board industry or the wood industry. In the state forest, there are about 500,000 cubic metres per year of existing cutting. If I take private forests again, it is times five, it is said, it is about 2 million cubic meters, two and a half, for which there is not a serious industrial consumer or processor in Slovenia right now to give higher added value. That was the question. The second question was, Mr. Minister, what about the veneering cold, which is the tip. In Slovenia, for venison, it is not for spruce, not beech, not maple, nor garlic of any industrial plant that would do this; not for cut or for peeled veneer. What's up with these ranges? Some 2 million and more cubits, which will have to be transported from Slovenia somewhere else, will still have added value. You're only talking about one small segment, I don't know, forest production, who's gonna run the concession in the woods. And I'm asking you, in what way this company, how are you going to guarantee what I asked you with this law? Two and a half million cubics of transit under this law will still be happening because these mass productions, processing in Slovenia are no longer or are almost no longer. And cars and trucks will travel from Slovenian territory, from Kočev or from anywhere else, out because these industries are not in Slovenia. This project, this marriage doesn't answer that. You only deal with what matters to raise concessions or higher income for the state budget. You can also do this with existing concessionaires and that jagari log. But as you stimulate the production of semi-products, there is no answer in this law. As you stimulate the extension to final production, there is absolutely no answer in this law. Mr. Secretary, you don't have a business plan to look into. You don't have the answers to that, and that's the key to that. Now you are dealing with this relationship between the state and state institutions and concessionaires who cut in the Slovenian forest in one way or another. If they're doing a bad job, it's the problem with the state, because it's got all the control. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u105	Replica, Mr. Tanko [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u106	over the system in this area. [[…]] But there are no answers to that. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u107	Mr. Jože Tanko, replica [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u108	And we need the answers to that, in particular. Three minutes and 15 seconds, ma'am, according to the rules of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magi Food has the floor. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u110	Thank you. Nevertheless, Mr Member, allow me to answer – for the first time, as far as percentages are concerned, because I have official statistical percentages here, and this is why it is important – what individual segments mean, ranges from the state forest according to Slovenia's current needs. Here it has to be said that logs cover 51 percent of Slovenian needs, I say state forest, leaves 74 percent, wood for cellulose and plates cover about 40 percent, but as you have found in cellulose and plates otherwise, that is over 105 percent, and wood for heating, that is by a minimum percentage, that is 11 percent. I have never claimed that this law saves everything that needs to be saved in the wood industry, because this law is quite similar to the laws in the countries that we keep telling us that we would like to be like them; even Bavaria, including a whole bunch of German countries, including Austria and so on. This law saves how to work in the state forest, that this is of greater benefit to the state and that this is a good basis for the forest and forest chain as a whole. This law is an extension for a good foundation because, in practice, I also meet with Slovenian and some foreigners, but also with Slovenian producers who want to invest – by the way, at this point Slovenian wood production is increasing for the third year in a row. I don't know if this is an accident or because this government is now in power, this is happening from 2013 and 2014 and even this year, if we talk to individual producers, it is growing. But they have a problem. This problem is quite simple, they say they would invest even more, but in fact they need a long-term contract on market terms only to have some preferential terms under market contracts, but they will invest 10, 20 or 30 million if they know they will have 200 or 100 or 150 thousand cubic metres of wood. Of course, it is clear that all these supplies cannot be delivered through the state forest, because there are only 20 per cent of them, but one part of them can. That's the first thing we're dealing with right now. In fact, we have an offer that can then be completed for those who need it and long-term initiatives. While the development of the wood industry itself must also be supported by some other activities, including the forest fund, which is a fund to be introduced, if this law is to be adopted, this will essentially be co-financed. Second of all, we still have a rural development programme, which spends more money on the forest and forest chain than ever before, as well as in the current period, however more than 100 projects have been supported, and we also have cohesion that will affect investment in the economy. What the state is doing is helping our wood industry open up some foreign markets that have a greater desire for wood products than Slovenia itself. I'm here to help myself. I know you don't like to hear the word China, but also Slovenian wood producers went to China, and they are now invited to Montenegro, and when we go to central European countries, they are always invited to join us, sometimes to simply open new doors, know-how, sometimes to make contracts. At the moment in Slovenia we already have some good cases, most of which are connected to the manufacturer of wooden houses. Individuals are even given orders that they are unable to service at the moment by the current production capacity. For example, these successful manufacturers have also supported this specific law through the Economic Chamber, because they have estimated that it will be one of the stones, but of course it will not be the only one, it takes a lot of steps, and not least this plan adopted by the Janšev government, and one government has prepared it before, so called Les is beautiful, is still being realized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Jože Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u112	Thank you very much. This growth of the wood market has taken place without this law. Clearly, this law was not the one that stimulated the matter, but apparently the market was the one that drew it. I have also asked you before, Mr Minister, how will you solve this problem, which has appeared several times here as an obvious that thousands of trucks and I do not know how many wagons of Slovenian goods, forest ranges are being driven out of the country. When will this end, for example, because there is no measure in this law to prevent this? I told you earlier that for half of Slovenian raw materials there is no industrial production at home. She's not here right now because she's gone. What is the state's response to giving added value to those ranges that are not what you're talking about now, this is happening through the opening of markets, like in all other areas, this is just a matter of the market, this was not a matter of systemic measures to stimulate exports of the timber industry. [[…]] No measure has been taken in such a way, except for those reliefs where someone invested at the time. The problem with this law is that it is placed in a very administrative area, while other areas are completely unsettled. I ask you about this, what will happen to these things, for which there is no industrial processing and no added value in Slovenia right now, but it is half the time of Slovenian forests or even more. This marriage does not answer; look, you can read it, you can look at it, I can not know what you do – there is no answer to it. If we want to turn this thing around differently, then we need to answer these questions and have some activity projection for both the cellulose industry, the cellulose wood, the plates and the veneer part. Now you only deal with sawdust, this is just one part, one segment of this question, how much real wood processing of a semi-product, such or different, in such or other performances of panels, profiles or anything for the next stages of processing. [[..]] There's no answer to that, Mr. Minister, I'm sorry. And you haven't said anything now, not about volume, not about transportation, not about investment in this segment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magi Food has the floor. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u114	Once again, maybe I'm being vague, and let me repeat myself. We have before us a law on governance and governance in the state forest, much like the laws in the countries that set an example for us. This law saves better governance in the state forest, gives good extensions for the development of the forest and forest chain. More answers to the development of the forest and forest chain will all be found together in a strategy called Les is beautiful and is also implemented. I have said at least four measures previously implemented by the State and I also assume that exports are actually increasing as a result of these measures. Those who are now growing are, of course, economic societies, because it is also appropriate, are the biggest supporters of this law because they find that such a law will enable them to grow, develop and export and produce for the Slovenian market faster. However, once again I would like to stress that when we observe the law on governance and management in the state forest, this law is essentially what it says, but this law is new. This novelty is quite a few good extensions also for the development of the entire forest-forest chain. You must understand, however, that the state forest law cannot answer questions about how many beds we will make in Slovenia in autumn, how many veneer boards we will make in Slovenia because it is part of industrial policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. Part of the possible response to this discussion may also be when an undertaking that will control the total weight of wood in the state forests becomes operational, it is certainly much more accurate to predict the quantities involved and the type of wood involved in this case. And when you have all this data gathered, of course, you have to look at the market for companies that are interested in each type of wood. Here it is very important that we may first really provide those companies that are doing very well in Slovenia today, namely wood processing companies that are doing very well but are purchasing wood abroad. This is probably the first goal we can make by offering such companies exactly the kind of wood they need in their production, and today they are buying it abroad. The second question is, what about companies that have either failed or are on the verge of doing well? It is certainly very important if we can conclude, and this is also the purpose, including multi-annual contracts with the woodworking industry. If you have a guaranteed amount of wood under known conditions for many years, then you can also restructure your debt if you have it, and the woodworking industry usually has it, and things get easier. As regards areas where, for example, these wood processing has failed, as is the case with Kočevska, it is certainly very important that this area also has the status of a problem area, for which anyone who can invest has an investment tax benefit, also has employment benefits, i.e. paying social contributions and other employee benefits. This is certainly one of the opportunities that can be turned into a priority within the area, which is the richest in Slovenia with national forests, because the country or government has already decided to invest in areas with the status of problem areas. This tax mechanism is also a day here, and all of this can be used in a very short time. Of course, it is also a fact that it will be very important how funds will be classified, which are also intended as concrete financial resources, to make this company as efficient as possible. In addition to the capital injection already mentioned today, by Sneznik, which is strategically important for the country, this strategic importance can also be applied in this way in Kočevska River to the former premises of this company, which rationalised its production, i.e. to the former premises of this company, to the establishment of a new company. So the country has no costs with new premises, in fact it only takes over the premises currently in the Institute of Forests of the Republic of Slovenia and can immediately be established with the minimum costs of its seat in the Kočevska River. The whole range of mechanisms is ready in Kočevska to make a breakthrough in the woodworking industry, and this company will establish if the interest of both the Ministry of Economic Development and the Ministry of Labour is to step together for finance and further strengthen all these financial mechanisms that are available for problem areas so that we can revive the woodworking industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Primož Hainz has the floor. Get Mr. Tomaž Lisec ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u118	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Nice hello to you all! In the Desus Group, we are convinced that this is an important law. We know that with the concession system, some people are getting rich, and I'm not going to use the word shake, because I think it's pessimism, which is a little premature. However, it is some who have literally caused, as some experts say, that the woodworking industry has failed. The fundamental conflict or opposition to this law is very simple: we have simply some who think that everything needs to be privatized — that is, if possible sold to foreigners — and are or are some of us who think that the state must have some property in its possession in order to save social transfers or to create new jobs. But it is true, as Mr Židan once said, that the supervisory authorities have to do their role. Although we have poor experience with these supervisory authorities, I think we will have to put an end to this scratch. This law or this company will certainly be one point at which, I hope, we will end up with this practice so that the supervisory committees will assume their legal obligations, as they must, including property, as required by the law. What was coming on Desus, if I may say so, to the parliamentary group, were the powers of the denationalising beneficiaries. There was something about those letters. Indeed, they fear that the denationalisation beneficiaries will be affected. However, I believe that this proposal is "lex specialis" as the Minister says in Articles 31 and 34 that this law solves this problem and guarantees denationalising beneficiaries that they will not be harmed. And in Desus, of course, we recommend a more friendly negotiation with the other side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u120	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear guests, colleagues, colleagues, last time a nice greeting! When I listened to this debate, I cannot help feeling that for some who have read this law in some optimistic way, this law will save everything. It will not only save state forests, it will also reach into private forests and it will try to save something there to reach into the woodworking industry and it will save that and so on. I have to say that I am a little bit happy, but at least the Minister may have a little bit of these over-optimists, put them on solid real ground and said that everything is probably not going to be ideal, optimal, but we are trying to do something new. I also felt that concessions were now to blame, on the other hand, and for everything that was bad both in the forest industry and also in the timber industry in general. I think that it is true that some have decided to pursue the concession model, that they have probably pursued private rather than public interest, but the 20-year period is behind us, and we have a new state-owned company ahead of us, according to today's expressed support. Most of all, when I processed this law, I looked at the financial structure. I really hope that these 20 million plus 20 million guarantees will make the distinguished representatives of the Ministry look a little more realistic on this world and these costs. Earlier, colleague Weber had said that they had something ready in Kočev, or I would not consider it to be part of the lobbying, but rather as a well-intentioned observation, but when I look at the estimates: the cost of stocking – 9 million. It might still be possible, although on average the price of land is estimated at 50 euro square meters. For my understanding, from where I come from, we'd be happy to offer you lower prices for warehouses. Then investments in business premises and computer equipment. As we have already heard, we have a Forestry Institute, we have a Fund of Agricultural Lands, some employees will go there, they have their premises, but we will still need a business space of 5,000 square meters, the estimated cost of EUR 6.5 million and the upgrade, the addition of computer and software to be transferred from the Fund – an estimate of EUR 1.8 million. I wonder what the devil's equipment is now on the Fund, whether they don't have it or not. For 1 million euros, my dears, those who know little about IT can get a huge, not just computers, licensed equipment and everything else, so sometimes I get the feeling that we're going to get another state cloud that we're going to call a forest cloud. Above all, what I am concerned about in this law, in addition to the financial structure of course, is also the issue of supervision and records. Unwittingly speaking of concessions, as well as the transition to a new period, this reminds me of the subject that has not yet been resolved and should be up to 1. 1. 2016 — the area of chimneys. We're all talking about surveillance, records, and that's not in practice. I have a similar fear that it will be similar with the new state-owned company. Sometimes I feel like we don't even know when we're talking about this state-owned company that the market is the one that regulates, whether it's a state-owned company or a private company. Offer and demand. So, Your Honor, the market is the one that regulates and we can write in the draft law what is the ideal desire, what is the price of wood, what costs and so on, but what is the supply and demand. If they still drive wood to Austria, some say even to Romania and so on, then – what have we done? The state company, in which we have thrown 20 million, will hire some people and some will boast about how we have done something new, good for the state forests, and in the end everything will turn out to be a bad marketing reception. As I'm more of a time-consumer, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, you wrote, "we're going to need at least six regional centres." Now, at least six is so tell me if you already have them on paper: one, two, three, four, five, six or so will be eight and so on. [[…]] Unfortunately, there's no trace of this here. Also, this phrase, "annual compensation to municipalities up to 25%". Do! It's the same as the sentence in the "may" law. What's arbitrary: this mayor is ours – 25 percent, this is SDS, and this is my lord – 2 percent. Or how that's gonna work, I'm really interested. I am also disturbed by the fact that the systematisation act is prepared by the Director, so probably this person already exists in practice with the name and surname that will, too, I have heard one name that is very circular, which is supposed to smile at this director's chair. That's what I'm interested in. However, I must say that I am interested in the transitional and final provisions, why we will only get the first deployment plan by the end of 2016. Then we could have a transitional period, but for the first year, we'll be hanging something in the air like this with science, including the other organs. To the conclusion. Ladies and gentlemen, if you are seriously considering a serious state society in this area, we suggest that you read again what we have already said in the introduction, that you will also allow not only two employees and four representatives of the ministry to participate in the composition of the authorities, but also to whom more broadly, I hope that the opposition, because you know, the opposition is changing and the control must remain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u121	Thank you very much. We are moving to the conclusion and the Secretary of State, Mr Miha Marence, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u122	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, a very nice greeting on my behalf as well. In particular, I thank you for the constructive debate, the debate, also for some concrete proposals, which we can then make in the future when we talk about the amendments, in the very proposal of our law. Maybe if we start all over again; when our country was established, we decided on a different system than we had in the former Yugoslavia. So, we have set up a public forestry service in the form of the Slovenian Institute for Forests, which, regardless of the ownership of the direction, regulates, plans Slovenian forests. On the other hand, we awarded concessions to forestry companies, which we gave them the right to use and also to sell timber varieties. Some have taken advantage of this in a way that some further steps in the forest and forest chains have been set up or done alone and some have only sold forest and forest varieties. What may not have been quite clear today, but I think it is important to stress at this outset, is that the law you discussed today – and even in the future, I hope that we will – in no way interfere with that existing basic forest management system, this is the Law on Forests. This law is intended by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia because we believe that after 23, 24 years of experience it should also be changed. I am also pleased that we have all acknowledged together that forests, water, are what we have; finally, water depends heavily on the quality of our forests, because forests retain water, clean it and so on. Therefore, in the strategy of the Republic of Slovenia itself, it must be that we increase the area of forests in Slovenia, because this is what not only performs economic functions, but also ecologically and socially, as has been said many times today. And if you have this in your possession, then you can stop the idea that it's just an economic function. And that is why we have also made a withdrawal to the Assembly, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia; not SDH. SDH or Slovenian State Holding, when we are talking about capital investments, is only looking here through the business balance sheet. But when we talk about forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia, I hope we understand that we are not just looking at stories through financial operations, but that we are looking at the story more broadly. It is therefore right that there are also people on the Supervisory Board who come from different areas — strictly linked to forests, of course. They are not only foresters, they are also naturalists, or those who deal with the environment, they are also economists and, of course, the Ministry of Finance, because they know why. When we talk about the forest-forest chain, I would like to point out that this is not a law that will tell how it will save the forest-forest chain; it is a law that helps this forest-forest chain. Why? Now that we are dealing only with the concessionary system, we are talking about one big flaw. It was widely said that concession fees were too low. We can agree, we can have a longer, separate debate on this. However, the key, which may not have been exposed, is that the cut, harvesting and sale were broken down into several smaller entities. Here, the Republic of Slovenia, the government and the state had no leverage, in what way this timber mass could target the economy; because the state does not want to interfere with the economy but wants to help. In particular, he wants to help out by allowing me this expression when he is able to supply a timber chain or industry with long-term contracts. Yeah, well, unfortunately today it's no longer in the form it was, but once it's got to start somewhere. And certainly this is one of the steps in regulating the management of state forests, so that we can supply a forest and forest chain, because, of course, this chain will not be built at the time of the establishment or adoption of this law or establishment of a company. But some of the extensions are given to allow wood processors to make a business plan in terms of – I have the raw material, now I can go to the investment or I can look for a strategic partner. In this context, it is the key to aid in this economic segment. There were quite a few questions about the creation of capital. Any company that starts to operate needs an establishment capital. Initially, the divisional balance between the Fund of Agricultural Lands and the forests of the Republic of Slovenia was also meant in monetary terms, and we have already heard today that these funds are necessary for payments to denationalising beneficiaries, so we have made a financial construct for the value that this company will need; but not by dividing the balance sheet of the fund, but by drawing on a specific budget item. Why is all this money going to be needed? At the beginning, when the company starts to operate, the system will first have to be put in place in a way that will ensure that the work in the forests is delivered and that the wood is sold. During that transitional period, a company needs certain capital to operate. The company needs some storage facilities so that it can control or sell wood into a chain. Up to 6 centres, up to 8 centres, a map of the so-called weights in Slovenia is made, where wood from Slovenian forests is made of gravity. But if we look at the whole map, then we see that these surfaces or plots are to a relatively large extent very scattered, so it's hard to say at this point whether it's going to be like that or not, because we want the red thread of the law to remain, but we still don't know exactly how the law is going to be drawn up. That is why we want to have the basic thread of the mission that we wanted to build with this law, but we have it; the story below goes on to draw up a business plan where the supervisory committee will be involved. We've prepared the starting points, your starting points are in the government building. The drafts of this business plan are those of the company itself or of the director’s V.D. – by the way, to answer, there is much talk about names, and yet we do not have them; we will have them when he is appointed. Then there was a conversation about business premises. It should be said that the current fund does not have its premises except where the central unit is. It is therefore necessary to provide for the financial means of renting or buying-in. Financial resources should also be provided for the information system, as the system now has the Fund needs to be upgraded or completely new. There was also talk of an input into the mechanism. It is clear that most of the works will be awarded to potential bidders through invitations, but some part, for various reasons, may be due to some rapid intervention, as we know in the snow forests or at the Castle of Snow White, where this procurement process is precisely prolonging a story so that we cannot intervene. Therefore, the company also needs some of its basic resources. There was a lot of talk about extending concessions. We wanted to be able to extend concessions at least by the end of the year, which is probably for business reasons very reasonable for the company to start operating with 1. 1.; also from a balance sheet point of view. Nevertheless, the answer was that we cannot extend concessions. We can decide on a new system or we respect a regulation that speaks of a call for 10 years. However, if we find that the concession system in a classical sense, as we know it today, is not the real one; then it is probably reasonable to start with a new model. Is this model appropriate or inappropriate? It has already been said that in 2012 different models were, say, made SWOT analysis. [[…]] And based on current experience, based on foreign practices, of which much has been said today, the proposal you have on the tables, honourable Members and Members has, to the greatest extent possible, justified the appropriateness of further management or, to say the least, management. As has already been said, we are only talking about how the country will direct management. Monitoring, planning and so on is, of course, the task of other institutions. And certainly not all forestry institutions can be combined into one, but someone is engaged in public tasks such as planning, someone with management, someone with research. There were also questions about local communities. In drafting this law, we wanted to look at the effects that the current regulation has on the current legislation, i.e. the Fund Act, up to the local communities themselves. We wanted these effects, which we recognized were largely positive, to be maintained. It is mainly three effects to answer the question in concrete terms. The first is that for the construction of public infrastructure, such as schools and the like, land can be transferred to the local community or to the local community. Secondly, to grant free sharing where these lands, i.e. owned by the Republic of Slovenia, are built by some infrastructure such as remote heating, water supply and so on. And the last thing you've talked about today is compensation for the use of forest or local infrastructure. Here we wanted this amount of value to remain similar; the same – we cannot guarantee exactly the same because between municipalities and even between years this value fluctuated because the January was different, which was done in a particular area or in a particular municipality. But the percentage is different in this law, as it is now determined, but the final value is the same. Nevertheless, we can also ask ourselves whether local infrastructure is burdened only in local communities or municipalities where forests lie, as these trucks are also driven through other local communities; we particularly want this money to go from the forest fund to the municipalities to be built, to rebuild their infrastructure. The question was also how to deal with concessionaires. The fact is that for 20 years it is known that it is a 20-year contract and that one day the system will probably be different. And today we are talking about a different system, and yet we do not want Slovenian people not to work in Slovenian forests. But we can't do this in this way in marriage and we can't write it down, there's a really important article here that talks about how we're going to choose or what criteria there will be for selecting those who will work in the woods, and what will be the criteria for selling wood assortments that we all own together. There, however, we can write down certain things that are also permitted by the Public Procurement Act, which you have already adopted. And because a million, a million 200 thousand – and we hope to be able to talk about a million and a half in 2020 – someone in Slovenian forests will still have to cut and have to clean or drive to the truck. And these are those who are already qualified, not only qualified, but also equipped. So from this point of view, we do not see undue anxiety. I would like to point out once again and thank you for a constructive conversation. From this interview, we estimate from your responses that the law, in its essence and in red, does not meet what the government has imposed. I am pleased that we will be able to complement the law further with concrete comments through the amendment form, which I believe will raise its value. I want us to do this as soon as possible so that the company can also start its operation and its entire mission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u123	Thank you very much. We've got some time left. I know there's still a desire to discuss it. Now, I would just like to warn you that the Ministry's representative will make a new statement for the word not with his hand, but by pressing the key on the microphone. So everyone with a key, including a government representative. I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u124	Wood is our key natural asset. I don't think it's a clever comparison from the vine if we compare forest and wood, that for Slovenia it represents something like oil, oil for many African countries. Unfortunately, we can also see that the ransom from the natural wealth produced by Slovenia is very similar to what African countries derive from their natural wealth. Not much too much. For this reason, one of the fundamental issues that this Parliament must also address is how to improve the exploitation of our natural wealth in a way that will be sustainable and that at the same time the citizens will have some of it; in terms of jobs, jobs and so on. The Minister has developed a system of reorganisation of governance with state forests. I think we can all agree that the current system of concessions has been ineffective or that the country has received less than it could have received. Following the responses of a number of wood processors spoken to by our parliamentary group, this natural raw material did not reach our woodworking industry, but was being sold on the outside. Many have warned us that millions are involved and that so - called gegeists are led by very powerful people who can achieve many things; and that they will not just give up their money, their earnings, and their profits. Perhaps for the newer Members, I don't know if you know, but that famous broadcast of Uroš Slaka was cancelled precisely because it revealed the background and the way in which these gays function, which means that it is an extremely influential group. I have to say directly and frankly that I do not like this solution proposed by the Minister; and I do not think it is good that it is not rational. The Minister says that at least €20 million will be spent by the state-owned company to set up a mechanism in the right places; in short, businesses will be launched. I just rationally ask myself how the state, if it already wants to set up its own company, has not chosen to purchase existing forest holdings, which are more or less of a shareholding company. Recently, the Maribor forest economy was sold for about a million and a half euros. If the state bought all the forest economies throughout the territory, it would have been less than 20 million to buy the entire infrastructure, the facility, the people, the knowledge, everything that belongs to it. And that's why it's really hard to understand the decision to create a new company, given that we already have some infrastructure. It is difficult to understand any logic, especially when the Secretary of State spoke earlier in the debates that most of the work on the tenders would be done anyway. The logic is that we will spend more than 20 million euros to set up a new company that will do a smaller part of the job; most of the work will be put on call, which means that those who have these capabilities today are existing forest economies. If you draw the line below it all, you can find that virtually nothing will change, that obviously the boys and gentlemen who have served well today will continue to receive jobs through the tenders and do these things; and the country will give 20 million euros for the camouflage to set up another company. It doesn't make sense, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u126	President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to Minister Židan, also to Minister Počvalšk from the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology! As I listen to this debate today, I have said once before that I am finally pleased that I have finally come to Parliament with an important topic, a topic in the field of economy, forestry and the timber industry. I have repeatedly stressed in the debates that we do not pay much attention to Parliament's committees, even in Parliament's economy. I advocate the idea that this country will be saved by a strong economy, a strong Ministry of Economy, that is what creates added value. And once the economy is able to move to even higher installations, we will also have more to share and we will talk more about the state budget. If I look at the story of the forest-forest chain or these two industries, I have repeatedly encountered the issue of the links between these two activities in my experience. I think that this law is the real answer to these dilemmas that have arisen in the economic space when these two sectors have sometimes come together and were not connected. This law offers all solutions for synergies in forestry and the wood industry and that our greatest wealth of wood, which we have in abundance and do not know how to use it as it could; that these two industries together can answer the question of how to create greater value added in the Slovenian economy and be a country as a whole richer. That is why today I am a bit distracted by the debate of some Members when we sometimes talk in the corridors, when many people are attached, to let us do something in the field of forestry and the wood industry. Even when I looked back at the conclusions, I saw a lot of the conclusions of the Committee on Agriculture and other committees, and we talked in Parliament about the need to do something about this. The solution has now come to the table, this is the Law on Forests, which, personally as a Member and also the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, supports. However, some of the issues and dilemmas that have arisen today are still possible to be incorporated into this law and to develop a framework that will produce good results in the long run, for the benefit of all of us. On the basis of today's debate, however, I am optimistic that we will overcome what my fellow Members from Austria have said when we met with a group of friends. They said that they had reached a state-wide consensus in this area, that they had pooled the powers and forces of environmentalists, foresters, foresters, foresters, economists and created conditions for a country that could maximize its yield from this wealth. Similar models are available in Finland and Scandinavian countries. Of course, I am surprised by some questions when they already want answers to all the questions about how many employees there will be, how many, not to say, cleaners in a company. Today, this law creates the framework for the development of forestry and forestry activities. I think we have enough forest experts and wood industries in Slovenia, and they have already been tasked with clarifying this business model to create a business model that will follow the basic guidelines of the law. I cannot imagine that the National Assembly would take on the role of the Supervisory Board and today consider a business plan. This is not our job, we must create conditions for better management. And I think that we are on the right track today, in the framework of the smaller amendments and additions law, we should also arrange this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr. Marko Ferruga has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u128	Thank you so much for saying that. Greetings to both ministers and their teams and everyone else! The fact is that today we are talking about a very interesting topic that we have all said more or less about as a common denominator – that it is one of our most important raw materials. We need to be aware of that and we need to build on it. Why am I saying this? Our two driving forces in SMC, Ivan and Danilo, who are very persistently taking this forest issue – and we are, of course, following them with great joy and pride – today they both have, if you have noticed, a butterfly made of wood, which means that the wood is really alive, but not only alive, but also beautiful and useful. Why am I saying this? With all the problems we always see, and the fears we always have, and with all the negatives I see in this marriage, as Danilo said, I see one step forward, that's one thing. Secondly, I see a foundation, one fence on which it is possible to build our beloved Slovenia. I also see an enormous potential, given that we have almost unlimited raw material, this is our wood. Why am I talking about this added value? We must not forget that on this basis we have very good designers who have made quite some excellent products that are already being sold on the international market. Let me not forget to mention the kickstarters with whom certain young boys got jobs and jobs. Another matter, which is very important, has been shown to be the breadth of wood. Not only are we talking about large buildings, but we're talking about details like I mentioned earlier, they're real butterflies, ties, cameras, wheels, speakers. All of this is for sale – and the glasses, clearly, I have not forgotten, I have not yet bought them, but they are extremely interesting – and also the design is complete. And here is this added value that I see in Slovenia and between us Slovenians when I have this ingenuity from which we can make a lot of things, but we are not aware. We need to actually let this innovation out of ours, and that is why it is good, because it will also be appropriate to start developing a neglected education, as far as forestry is concerned. [[…]] Jobs will also be gradually opening up. And here's just an upgrade to what we're all wondering, how to start some development, the moment this wave starts. I think that wood is one of the really important industries and therefore I am very pleased that a wood directorate has been set up at MGRT to give added weight and added value to it; and also to this government, clearly, to this end, to profile the main development axes; and these are wood, water and, of course, natural details and tourism. I think the government is turning its circle of future and success in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Škodnik has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u130	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister – Mr Restoršek and Mr Židan – with the teams! I must say that with the debate that took place today in the National Assembly, I am fully satisfied; in this form I also expected it, perhaps even more positively than I saw it a few days ago. I think that this law, which is somehow prepared or drafted, in this National Assembly, we need to reach such a level that this state-owned company can live as we thought it would, and that this state-owned company will launch a forest-forest chain and make a breakthrough in the field of forestry. We must be aware that these are new jobs that have been lost in the past. This is not only about foresters, but it is about the jobs of foresters, architects, economists. Last week, Daniel and I were at the opening of the Ambient furniture fair in Ljubljana. And I have to say, when I remember 30 years ago, what a fair it was to be very disappointed. In the first part, when we walked around the hall, we saw nothing special and there was no real will in those who represented certain companies. But in one part of the hall, we were satisfied when we ran into a group of young architects who showed their ideas in the form of unique products. They were so interested, they had such a will that you couldn't describe it. Five years ago, in the field of architecture, they did not train and educate young architects in terms of the use and installation of wood. This has only happened in the last five years. Previously they have installed other materials, and now we have this advantage, the chance that we can also install this wood to increase consumption and employ young people. And frankly, if we now renounce those young people who are driven and want to do something, then we will make a serious mistake; we must not afford it. In the past, as I mentioned earlier, we brought together two workshops and worked when we called on students and students of architecture, I cannot forget what cooperation it was. The students were coming into production, where the students were making products, on the one hand and on the other, and then when they made them, they were very sad, who would do it now, there was no real support. Many young people, including architects, go abroad. If we want to be good to them, I'd like to ask that we really get together, finish this marriage. And I don't mean that when some people say that the coalition is very strong, this law will adopt, overthrow, the company will set up; and then what happens will happen. Believe me, that's not the point, but the goal of this beginning is to make a breakthrough in the wood industry. We will gradually reach quality and those demanding products. Today, it has also been said where this law mentions how we will make difficult products. Listen, because it doesn't work that fast; when you start again, demanding products come in years. I will relate to tourism, they have been building tourism in Austria for more than 300 years; we are comparing ourselves with why laufa tourism is up there and not in Slovenia. It's a very similar thing, you have to work, you have to learn, and then you get the result. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister or two Minister! I am pleased that Minister Restoration has also joined us. I believe, I sincerely believe that the intentions of Minister Jewn are good, that with the 20% of the forests we have in Slovenia, I mean the surface, we actually make bigger purchases. Of course, there is now an immediate question to be asked here, but what about 80% of the area that is privately owned or someone will help the private. The question arises how hunting is regulated in this law or in these state forests. There is much to ask, but I am bitterly aware that one opportunity is missed, and this is coordination with the entire political spectrum in the National Assembly. This opportunity is delayed and that is why we will immediately, if the decision on the suitability of this law is adopted in the National Assembly, propose a call for a public presentation of opinions on the Proposal for a Law on Forest Management owned by the Republic of Slovenia. This proposal will be addressed to the Agriculture Committee. Colleagues, colleagues from the coalition, here will now demonstrate your honesty, of course also to the minister, whether you will support this proposal or not. If not, then I'm going to repeat now, you're going to assume absolute responsibility, you're going to somehow move away the professional public who couldn't until today, there's no way that she could say anything here. One of the questions we will propose is: Is the establishment of a state-owned enterprise considered in the light of the planned contribution of the Republic of Slovenia of EUR 20 million to be used to purchase mechanisms and equipment to provide business, storage and service facilities and to start the company? We already have all these resources in Slovenia, which are already held by gegeists, shareholders. And if a private bought a maribor gege for a million and a half, I wonder why the state wouldn't pick up this geyser. Does this seem too easy? Now, somehow from nothing, we need 20 million from the coordinate base and we go to buy machinery; sometimes we criticize farmers, because they have too many mechanisms depending on the size of the working area in our country. Next question – how is supervision of the company provided? This company will probably, as I said before, some cluster will probably go to several levels, probably some kind of holding company and then under this holding company a lot of d. o. Or how? We don't know. We don't know because we weren't there. Therefore, we propose and ask here, on behalf of New Slovenia, to support this proposal for a public presentation of opinions, if you are already saying that this is probably one of the most important laws of this coalition in this mandate. If so, then it is probably necessary to open up here all the democratic possibilities that our Rules of Procedure and the Constitution allow. There's a lot of questions. There's no point in me reading them. All these questions, which we and the professional public are asking, would also be good for the public to reconsider and get answers to all these questions. Thank you, my friend Daniel, and thank you, my colleague Ivan, for bringing some products today and for putting on wooden butterflies, they are beautiful. Ladies and gentlemen, we talk so much about Slovenian wealth, about wood – how many protocol gifts do we already have from wood?Oh, my God! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magi Food has the floor. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u134	Thank you, Madam President. Once again, greetings, Members and Members of Parliament! I can't answer for the country as a whole. At the Ministry, you know why it's different. The initiative, however, is one that I fully support. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank you for today's debate, which I understand as extremely well-intentioned. I've also seen a lot of support for our plans to make a difference, because, like now, it's bad. It is a matter of exhausting the public good in a way that does not benefit the State; it does, however, have a private interest. Allow me to tell you what I have been thinking about during today's debate; I am myself as a agricultural, forestry, fisheries, hunting and food minister, often witnessing debates in this national assembly, why we do not have a system as regulated as it is in the countries to which we are trying to be similar. Why do we not have a system arranged as it is in Austria? Why do we not have an orderly system, such as Bavaria or Finland? And that's why I'm very surprised. However, when we want to do the system as it is in countries where it is proven that this system works well, the typical Slovenian concerns arise again – we want to do otherwise, we want to take into account the Slovenian specifics. I understand all of this, but the search for so many specialties has in our history for the past 24 years proved to be mostly very bad. And in the management and management of the state forest, there is an opportunity for all of us to follow the paths of the countries that have already set foot here before us and where this system is working in evidence. I believe it doesn't take much courage to go this way. Today we have talked not only about the management of the state forest, quite rightly, but because we are all aware that there are really quality jobs, jobs that have more added value, jobs that have a multiplier significantly greater than in forestry itself, where wood processing is. The higher we go in the processing of wood, the more quality places with the most added value are present. It is right when we talk about the law on governance and management of the state forest, we are discussing the basis for how to build the entire chain. However, we must be aware that the foundation of the chain is also good governance with the state forest, so I hope that we will adopt this law. True, what you have learned if it were possible to adopt such a law three years ago would have been a little easier for us. But looking back is no excuse for not working forward. We're in the state we're in. In my opinion, the law has already been sufficiently harmonised. It was not coordinated only within the political public; it was coordinated with non-governmental organisations, with professional institutions, where we reached a broad consensus, where we also received a lot of guidance. In professional institutions, if you are very careful about what they say, at least in most, their opinion is simple – a system like this is impossible. That's the first conclusion. The second conclusion, often communicated to us by the professional institutions, we would like to know that because of the smallness of Slovenia, everything is within a single organisation. But that's not going to work. If we want to have an economic society that is well-governed, we cannot have planning within it and, in particular, not control. Even if it were just up to us, I believe we can't find out. However, because we are part of the European acquis and we cannot formally do so. I am aware of something else, a lot of good initiative has been given here today by the types of my coalition, including my opposition and our opposition. And it is the minds of politicians to listen to such opinions; and I believe that we will listen to them as much as possible. But I would just like to do something, please don't do this by deliberately blocking, blocking and blocking and trying to push the system into extending existing concessions that are harmful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u135	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the meeting's time frame, tomorrow, 24. 11. 2015, in the context of the votes I'm breaking the 35th item of the agenda. We're moving to 36. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the participation of workers in profit in the first defence. The draft law was tabled by a group of two Members and Members with the first-signed Dr. Bojan Dobovšek. With regard to this bill, the Group of 11 Members and Members with the first-signed Dr Bojan Dobovski requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. Alenki Brother.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Vice President. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Why share profits with employees? Profit is a reward for capital owners for the risk they take by investing; and workers receive an agreed payment for the work they have done. So why share the profits with the employees? Employers also note that the link between the remuneration of workers and the performance of the business is an effective stimulation of employees to create even better work results, which has a bearing on the company's efficiency and thus on the greater competitiveness of the company in the market. The success of the business and the profits of the employer become a common objective of capital owners, employers and employees. Many of the positive effects brought about by the participation of employees in the results of society are the reason that this way of motivating employees in the world is increasingly being pursued. The positive effects are reflected at several levels: at economic level as a whole, in the form of better functioning of the labour market and increased social cohesion; at company level, in the form of increased productivity due to increased employee motivation; at employee level, in the form of greater identification with the company, which affects greater business participation; and also in the form of an increase in the personal property of workers. The fact is that the law currently in force, which was adopted in February 2008, did not come to life as it should. There are probably more reasons or factors for this. Firstly, the complex administrative procedure for the registration of a contract conducted by the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology; secondly, probably the economic crisis, which also hit Slovenia just after 2008, and the result was also low profit in companies. According to our assessment, thirdly, also poor promotion and awareness of the legal possibility. From 2008 to September 2015 only 58 companies registered a contract and a scheme under which participation in profits is paid. And this is proof that the law really did not come to life in practice. However, since it seems good for us to see workers taking part in profit, with the proposed change we want to encourage owners to share more of the profits among the workers as well. The new law is very short; the two key changes that I will now make. The first, extremely important, is that the profit paid or the intended profit on the basis of the new law before you is considered to be a cost to the company and therefore not subject to taxation. According to our assessment, this would certainly further encourage owners to share some of the profits with workers. Secondly, the limits on payment are already stated in the law. We raise them slightly – two limits – 30% of the projected profit per year can be distributed among workers. And we are also restricting one worker to a maximum of one sixth of gross annual income in the last year. In the case of an average salary, this would mean a maximum of EUR 3 000 per employee in one business year. I also think it is important to stress that all employees are involved in the scheme; the fact is that this is also true today. According to our assessment, everyone, workers and owners will gain from our proposal; the only country should give up a few million, which should not be a problem in this economic situation. In view of the above, I hope that you will support us in other parliamentary groups; and that we will finally move from words to actions.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u137	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Zdravek Počvalšk, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u138	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Government has received a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the participation of workers in the profit made in the legislative procedure of 29. Ten. 2015 tabled by the Group of Members and Members with the first signed by Dr Bojan Dobovška. The proposal for a law allows the payment of participation in profits to workers on the basis of the intended profit of the single amount according to the criteria laid down by management. The company can pay workers a maximum of 30 % of the profit of the business year and the worker could receive a maximum of one sixth of the gross amount of wages paid over the last 12 months. The company would be considered to be the eligible cost of the company and would be considered a capital income for workers. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia agrees with the proposals of the proposed law that the current Law on the Participation of Workers in Profit, in view of the number of contracts registered since 2008, has not come to life and has not achieved its purpose. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has decided, in view of the shortcomings identified in the Law on the participation of workers in profit, to address the shortcomings of that law systematically and comprehensively in the context of tax reform; to increase the competitiveness of the business environment and reduce labour burdens and to take account of public financial burdens. The Ministry of Finance is 10. 11. 2015 has sent to the public a proposal for a law on the specific tax treatment of the award of the performance of workers, which significantly relieves the remuneration of employees. Since the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is already preparing a systematic and comprehensive tax reform with a neutral impact on public finances, the proposal for a law on the participation of workers in profits submitted by a group of Members and Members with the initial signed by Dr. Bojan Dobovski cannot be supported and is proposing to the National Assembly the adoption of a decision that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u139	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, in its name mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u140	Thank you very much and thank you very much again! I don't know, Minister, why I'm not surprised that the government will seek a systemic solution. In each opinion, when the Minister stands here and explains why certain things we propose in the opposition are not acceptable, point out that you will find, at least you will try to find a systemic solution; despite the fact that we are right that the law has not achieved its purpose. And you know, respectable colleagues and colleagues, what this system of regulations is like – you end the law, the division of profits among workers will be no more. This is the systemic solution you're proposing. Even in much more capitalist countries, the case of the United States of America, about 25% of businesses share profits among workers. We'll put an end to this. And this is equal to 13 or 14, which is something else entirely. This, Your Honor, is the systemic solution you were talking about. I am glad that you are with us today, because I hope you will tell us something about this systemic solution, after all this law is to stop paying the profits of workers, even in public treatment. And I'd be happy to hear your opinion, too. In our parliamentary group, we will support this amendment, as we have also tabled the law, there is no doubt. I would just like to tell you once again those two key changes that we are introducing with this proposal. Firstly, that the profit paid if paid by the company under the proposal of the novel would not be subject to taxation, but would make it easier. And secondly, that companies can't speculate in any way, we stay on the limit. It is true that the limitation on individual payments is raised to one-sixth of gross annual income; and the maximum profit that can be paid on the basis of the proposal you have before you is 30% of the profit per year. And once again, respected colleagues and colleagues, with our proposal, workers and owners will win. The only country would give up a few million dollars, according to our calculation of about 30 million euros. At your last meeting or last week, on Wednesday, you raised VAT for an indefinite period of time, permanently; you wrote in your explanation that we are making room for manoeuvres so that we can unload people or the economy elsewhere. And once again, now is the time to show that not only do you speak, but then do some of it. As I have already said, in our Group of Members, we will support this proposal, which only brings nothing to everyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, on her behalf Mrs Andreja Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u142	Honourable President, Honourable Minister and Honourable Colleagues and Fellow Members! We have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the participation of workers in profits. On 29 February 2008, the National Assembly adopted the law. Until the adoption of the law, the participation of workers in profits was possible, but it was not encouraged by tax or otherwise. The Act amended this by regulating the participation of workers or workers in the company's profits and participation in company ownership, the profit participation contract, the contract procedure for the conclusion of the contract, the cash and equity scheme, and the conditions for obtaining social security benefits. The law is based on the principle of voluntaryness and non-transferability, so that participation in profits is voluntary for workers and society, and also the right is not transferable to other entities. The principle of equality prohibits the equal participation of all workers, but must not affect the right already acquired from the working relationship. All participants and bodies involved in the preparation and participation of profits must deal with the care of a good economic operator. The same principles also contain a new proposal for the Law of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. The company and the workers may agree on a monetary or share scheme for participation in profits. The establishment of the scheme shall be one of the mandatory components of the contract concluded by the parties and forwarded to the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology for approval and registration. Only the contract entered into the register offers the possibility of applying tax reliefs and reliefs to social security contributions. The monetary scheme gives workers the right to pay the corresponding amount of profits in money; and the equity scheme in the form of shares. Unfortunately, only 56 companies in the Republic of Slovenia took advantage of the possibility offered by the existing law. Therefore, there is an urgent need for amendments in the field of regulation. However, not in the manner set out in the bill under consideration. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has decided to regulate the issue of the applicable Law on the participation of workers in profits systematically with the aim of increasing competitiveness and reducing labour burdens and taking into account public financial burdens. The Ministry of Finance is already 10. 11. 2015 has sent to the public a draft of three tax laws, namely the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation of the Income of Legal Persons and the Proposal for a Law on Special Treatment of the Rewarding of Workers. Therefore, in the SMC Group, we decided not to support the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Participation of Workers in Profit, as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has prepared a systematic and comprehensive tax reform with a neutral impact on public finances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The Member Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Franz Breznik, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u144	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Minister of Economy! The legal basis for facilitating the participation of workers in the distribution of profits by companies was highlighted by the Law on the participation of workers in profits adopted by the National Assembly at its meeting on 29 February 2008. Prior to the adoption of the Law on the participation of workers in profits, the participation of workers in profits was possible, but it was not taxed and otherwise encouraged. By September 2015, only 56 contracts had been entered in the register of contracts maintained by the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, of which 8 contracts for the participation of employees in profit were registered in 2008, 16 contracts in 2009, 6 contracts in 2010, 3 contracts in 2011, 9 contracts in 2012, 2 contracts in 2013, 6 contracts in 2014 and 6 contracts in 2015 and only 6 contracts in September 2015. The analysis of the implementation of the Law on the participation of workers in profits shows that the expected number of companies did not decide to conclude a contract on the participation of workers in profit. Also, companies with the largest proportion of employees in Slovenia did not choose to participate in profit. The latter can be attributed to environmental factors, in particular the impact of the global economic crisis, which has had a severe impact on the Slovenian economy, the under-stimulating tax treatment of monetary and share schemes and the insufficient promotion of the measure between Slovenian companies. The analysis of the implementation of the law shows that companies did not decide to conclude contracts for the participation of workers in profits, also due to the high administrative burden associated with the mandatory registration of a contract for the participation of workers in profits at the Ministry of Economic Development. One of the tax measures to achieve the upper limit of the economic policy objective is the restructuring of the burden of public duties. With the aim of increasing the competitiveness of the Slovenian business environment and reducing the workload and taking into account the public financial measurement, it is necessary to redefine the tax burden between consumption, income and property. If we also look at the statements of those companies that did not decide on the participation of workers in profit; if we just list some of the contracts that were signed – they signed in the first phase, i.e. in 2008 and 2009, BTC, IZI mobile, Workhouse, Elektroservis, Intereuropa, Hit, Domplan, Photona, Kladvar Žiri, Pekarna Pecjak, Casino Kobarid, XLAB and some other companies. The BTC has come out of this scheme due to the non-stimulating effect on the one it has paid. The statement by Telekom Slovenije is also interesting, even in S.mobile estimates that awarding through the scheme is insufficiently linked to the results of the work of individuals, so it has its annual and quarterly award system, which is more dependent on the commitment and effectiveness of employees. Let me mention the statement they made in S.mobile, which we are the most domestic of the Slovenian Democratic Party – that incentive award is necessary for those workers who have shown themselves most. Most very successful companies have not decided to join the scheme. For example, in Krk, where the success prize is paid in two parts, it is estimated that their existing way of awarding is appropriate and stimulating and that there is no need for change. That's what they said in Krka. The proposal for a new law submitted by Members and Members with their first-signed colleague, Bojan Dobovšek, shows that the bill allows for the payment of participation in the profits of workers on the basis of the so-called intended profit. The draft law defines the intended profit as a net profit as defined by the law governing the company and provides for the management of the company not more than one month before the end of the accounting period. According to the proposal, the company can pay the worker a maximum of 30 % of the profit of the business year and the worker could receive a maximum of one sixth of the gross amount of salary paid over the last 12 months. The company would be considered to be the eligible cost of the company, the payment of employees' participation in the intended profit would be considered to be income from capital measured and paid at the same rate, in the same way as dividends. The envisaged profit would be determined by management first one month before the end of the accounting period and would be paid to the employee in a single amount according to the criteria laid down by the management. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, as regards the shortcomings identified, in particular bureaucratic obstacles, namely those to be presented to the Ministry of Economic Development, as well as the indications given by certain companies which have shown profits and have made it clear and clear that such a measure is instimulating; and that they themselves have better internal incentive measures than those paid for the performance of an undertaking, i.e. internally on the basis of their schemes. I must admit that, on the basis of such schemes, a number of companies operate in Germany as well. I once mentioned the Porsche company here, and they have about that kind of scheme. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, in addressing the shortcomings of the law, it has systematically and in the context of the overall tax reform, with the aim of increasing competitiveness, repeating, the competitiveness of the business environment and the zero burden of work, and taking into account public financial burdens. [[Incomprehensible]] The aim of the amendments should be to encourage employers to reward workers from a positive business outcome, to which these workers have contributed in some way, which can contribute to greater productivity, profitability and the competitiveness of businesses and thus open new jobs with higher added value. Rewarding prospective and successful workers provides greater motivation and strengthening capital and labour connectivity. It is clear from the above that, in our view, it is also necessary to take a systematic approach to the Slovenian Democratic Party through a comprehensive tax reform with a neutral impact on public finances. I could say that we are thinking in the same way as the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, as the Minister of the Economy had previously stated; of course, I am not giving green light to that mini-tax reform, which is already on the horizon, so that certain facilitations in research and development are being reduced because we believe that Slovenian companies are to a large extent at an extremely low level of development, that we need a breakthrough, that we need a stimulating environment, in particular research and development of high technologies, that is, the introduction of high technologies. We also believe that the amendment of the Law on the participation of workers in profits must on the one hand act as an incentive in the internal work process and as a strengthening of the company's so-called organisational culture. That is why I am also giving the Members and Members who have put this law into consideration with their first-signed colleague Dobovsk; also what the Magi has proposed. Alenka Bratusek. On the one hand, only a change in the articles of law is insufficiently stimulating for this law. We will not oppose this bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, nor will we support it in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Tomaž Gantar, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'm a good-bye! In the Desus Group, we believe that this is a welcome proposal for a new law drafted by the opposition, but in our Group we support the preparation of a comprehensive system of remuneration or profit sharing. Moreover, it is also difficult to support a decision at this time, which means an additional deficit in the state budget after the adoption of the budget. Therefore, I can already point out in the introduction that today's proposal for a law in our Member State will be rejected. I will list a few more arguments on the weakness of the proposal and support our decision. The basic difference resulting from the proposed solutions is that the participation of workers in profits relates to the intended and not the firm's found profits, which we find to be a very pointless provision. It is unlikely that the company’s director will decide to pay the profits even before the profits have been realised, since if it turns out that the profits have not actually been paid, it is not considered to be a tax relief to the employees already paid. Which director would choose such an illogical move. On the other hand, the proposal for a law is based on the principle of volunteering, and there is no way that we can influence the decision of management, regardless of the incentive effect these incentives have. Unfortunately, we live in times when large amounts of profits are very rare and mostly remain in the owners' pockets. And right here is the problem, so far there have been such companies that have decided to share joint success with employees, very little. Of course, we also have positive examples in Slovenia, which, in our view, are still too few stories of success. You know, those who end up as they should – by dividing profits among employees, who ultimately deserve the profit to be made. There are still good employers who are aware of the importance of a satisfied and motivated worker, which undoubtedly leads to the success of the company. In such cases, it is not necessary to wait for opportunities for better regulation to share profits, but employees are respected and valued during the whole business year in a way that allows them fair pay for work done, regress, Christmas, stimulation and so on. For example, in their buildings, some companies already have premises for the protection of the children of employees, common areas for association, release and exchange of ideas. In Slovenia we are still mostly far from such trends. Next, we need to find a common language on the legal regime and the way in which workers will be able to participate in the profits according to the company's business outcome. Aware of all the above in the Desus Group, we believe that a greater value added will be achieved for businesses and also for employees through a comprehensive system regime. And as I have already announced in the introduction, in the Desus Group, we feel that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Honourable Minister, proposer, colleague and colleague! The key question of this law is how to create more, how to create a fair distribution and, of course, how to increase on one side the efficiency of the work done, while ensuring that people can not only live a decent but also a good life from work done. The bill before us today is a problem that we have not succeeded in many attempts in Slovenia for a long time and we have not yet settled it satisfactorily. We are talking about how to encourage employers to share at least part of their profits with their employees. It is crucial that they recognize in this tool motivation and the framework for strategic management of personnel. In the core itself, this debate is a reflection on the dilemma of how to address the issue of the fair burden of this amount – tax profits and contributions. Finally, the sharing of profits among employees needs to be seen primarily as a measure to increase the effectiveness of achieving economic objectives; at the level of the entire economy of the whole country. Of course, this must be done in agreement and with at least the majority consent of employers, without whom it is not wise to take such measures, which in fact change the social and economic realities of our country. The reality that we are living today is a picture where the involvement of workers in the sharing of profits by the existing system does not yield satisfactory results. The payment of profits to workers for legal persons constitutes a tax relief for corporate income tax as of today. In 2014, however, all companies in Slovenia implemented less than half a million Euros of this tax relief. Thus, the existing law has not been in effect for a long time or since its beginning, nor has it achieved its purpose. We wanted to change this existing reality from the time of Borut Pahor's government when, at the proposal of Bojan Kontic, we proposed a mandatory share of profits among employees, which we believe today is the best way to actually achieve the transformation of Slovenian society and economy. Unfortunately, this has not been successful in 2010, so we welcome the decision of the current government to approach the best possible solution to this challenge at this time and prepare a coordinated solution to employee participation in profit – a solution that will be developed in dialogue with employers, capital owners and, of course, employees. We think that social dialogue is the only way in which this socio-economic measure can be successfully regulated in Slovenia. As a step towards opening the debate, however, we also understand the existing proposal of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, which, according to our assessment, has been written in an important part in such a way that it does not achieve the objectives we want to achieve. Article 32 of the existing novel provides that the remuneration of the worker is the income from the labour relationship, which the proposal of the law does not change and thus retains the basis irrespective of the new Article 26c, so that Furs can treat this division as income from the work and tax it. In other words, in our view, paragraphs 26c and 32 are also in conflict. However, it is not possible to say that it will change the reality substantially or at all, so that in Slovenia profit sharing among employees could be expected. However, there is a significant uncertainty that remains in the mechanism of division. It allows for the interpretation that 30% of the profits can be distributed and that an individual worker cannot get more than one sixth of the gross salary, which in practice means that those with a lower salary receive less profits and those with a higher salary more. We do not want social democrats to agree to this because we estimate that if profits are shared, it is important that all employees receive the same share of this profit. But if we wanted to be even more righteous, we would reverse what is proposed in the novel. Since we believe that an agreement is needed for the future and because we do not recognize the desired solution in this law, we expect the government to fulfil the task outlined and to prepare a law on the sharing of profits among employees, which we will be able to support by assessing that it is ready for implementation; and that, as a key measure of strengthening solidarity and economic development, it can also be effective and viable and that, above all, it will be able to achieve the purpose of its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Joint Left Group, Mr Miha Kordiš on its behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u150	Thank you for your word, Madam President. In the Group of the United Left, any attempt to open a public debate on the sharing of profits even among those who actually create it can be said to be among the workers, just welcome. In recent years, it will soon be a full decade; in this Chamber too, as a way out of the crisis, it was mainly a cost cut in the public and private sectors. The harmfulness of cost-cutting measures in the public sector has already become almost negotiable. It is no less harmful than lowering costs in the private sector, whether in terms of wages or investments. In any case, the already low level of aggregate demand is further declining, and economic growth is also declining. This predominant logic, followed by the current government, even though it has been addressed by all of us so far, must be turned to its head. Wages, at least those of the lowest and medium, are too low and taxed, at least compared to capital taxation. They need to be raised up and thus stimulated by common demand and show workers that work is not necessarily just one cancellation; that the company in which they are employed is not only an opponent who sees them solely as a cost; and that they can also participate in its success. The principle of employee participation in profits, whether in the form of income or shares, may be part of this savings logic facility to promote growth, from which everyone would have something. How to better connect workers with their businesses, how to motivate them to become more driven, to innovate the production process and the products themselves, and to increase their satisfaction and well-being, and to ensure a fairer sharing of created ones, we have heard more than once. However, there is also a compelling macroeconomic argument in favour of the participation of workers in profit. According to economists, today's economic growth has driven mainly exports. Let's take a look at the timing. At the peak of pre-crisis, in the second half of 2008, exports were 70 % higher than in the first quarter of 2004 and 82 % higher at the beginning of this year. On the other hand, before the crisis, total gross investment was 50% higher than at the beginning of 2004 and is now 17% lower. Similarly to household consumption, which has managed to grow by 13% in eleven years. And what role could the participation of workers play in the recovery of this situation? If it were mandatory, as we suggest in the United Left Group, the sharing of profits would, on the one hand, ensure a fair sharing of what has been created and thus contribute to the growth of household consumption. On the other hand, the compulsory sharing of the profits of the owners would encourage investments in the development of the company instead of sharing it among shareholders. Thus, it also helped to increase investment. So not only would the participation of workers in the profits of the economy not endanger the business, but we can even view it as an important counter-crisis measure. The participation of workers in profit would have very positive macroeconomic effects, but – here again – it needs to be stressed – especially if the division of profits is mandatory for businesses. As evidenced by the current regulation of 2008, its volunteerism in practice is completely lifeless, at least if our objective is to actually implement the law and not just refer to it when it is politically opportunistic for us. In the years since its entry into force, only a few ten companies have applied the law in force, since the decision to share profits between workers was solely in the hands of the management of companies and their owners. The proposed law and conceptually similar proposals from the past have tried to resolve this by encouraging businesses to volunteer to share profits. This is done in one way or another, and most often with tax reliefs. Let the incentives be as broad and precise as possible, the fact that the objective of capitalism is as much a profit as possible with a view to reinvesting it or dividing it between capital owners cannot be avoided. Capitalism does not concern its employees who create profit at all, but does not care about the environment and the basic social subsystems that are willing to give up if it only improves its final balance. The solution of the government coalition, which it also presented in its comment on this bill's proposal, goes even further in its naivety. Otherwise, it recognises the practical limitations of the existing law, but it would not solve them at its most pressing point, so that the principle of volunteering would be replaced by the principle of compulsory profit sharing, but by the termination of the law, by its repeal. They would place the Act on specific tax treatment of remuneration for the performance of workers, which, as the name already says, would really leave only the vulnerability of capital to tax incentives. The possibility that, without a completely new law, some alternative proposals for a profit-sharing regime could be introduced would be abolished and the existing proven non-functional system would be cemented. The compulsory participation of workers in profits, as advocated by the Joint Left Group, would be bypassed by a simple decree. Of course, there should still be a way in which the part of the profits that would go to workers would not be even more taxed than the part that would go to the owners; the tax system should, in the first place, encourage investment. However, the compulsory sharing of the profits of the investment is encouraging in itself, since the owners of uninvested profits would not be able to simply divert them to dividends; at the same time, if workers were entitled to a sufficiently high share of the already paid profits, they would avoid irrational consumption and create a fairer distribution of profits. And this is another important aspect of the compulsory participation of workers in profit. Not only would capitalism help to defend against its irrationality and prevent it from cutting consumption of households and investments, as it is now, when we do not know whether we are yet another year of economic growth or perhaps before the recession, but also its own foundations. The compulsory distribution of profits could also be a building block of a new social contract, in which not only those with the highest income and wealth would not have something of economic growth, but would be evenly distributed among all those who help to create it. In the Group of the United Left, we are pleased that we are not the only ones who feel that the Law on the participation of workers in profit is being amended; at the same time, we are not the only ones who do not want to simply repeal the law, as the government coalition intends to do. But if we really want the law to live in practice and not just a dead letter on paper than the last seven years, then we need to be more decisive in our proposals and go beyond the proposal of this law. Social justice and economic rationality must not remain privileges depending on the flies of capital; they must become an obligation to which we should also be bound by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u151	Thank you very much. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, in its name Mag, has the word. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u152	Dear Members and Members! Experience in the economy teaches us that the best worker is the one who also gets fair and good pay for honest and well done work. And if the workers are very motivated, they are doing even more and better and they are making more profits with this company. The employer, who divides part of the generated profit among those who also create it, well knows that he has done a great deal for the company. Of course, this process does not go hand in hand with the role of a country that rewards such an employer with less tax pay, and thus the circle of a good and competitive economy is concluded. What about this in Slovenia? From year to year, we are witnessing higher taxes, compared to European countries, we are collecting an over-average share of taxes on labour and consumption taxes. The amount of taxes that our country collects from labour and consumption, as measured, of course, in the proportion of GDP, is very high. The rewards of workers, except for rare exceptions, are almost unknown. On the contrary, the worker is increasingly becoming a tool for employers to achieve their small, small business results; many times he does not get a salary or a reward for what he has done. It is perfectly logical that the company will be interested in paying profits when it also pays less taxes for this; therefore, if the company is also strongly stimulated for such an action. In New Slovenia, we advocate a social market economy, which puts people at the centre, so we welcome the proposal to reduce the corporate income tax rate; we also advocate the taxation of awards and profits at the same rate. Indeed, the Act on the participation of workers in the profits adopted in 2008 already makes it possible for workers to participate in the profits generated by them. Participation for workers and employers is voluntary under the previous law, a contract must be concluded for payment and entered into the register of contracts with the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. The purpose of the law was good, solutions would allow for higher productivity, higher motivation and consequently higher profitability of companies; unfortunately, in these seven years few enterprises have voluntarily joined the conclusion of those contracts and distributed profits among workers. If we look at the register of these contracts, we see that there are not many of the 55 registered companies with the highest proportion of employees in the country. And what is the reason for this – in particular the administrative complexity of the current division of profits and the one-year or three-year decision to pay for the enforcement of tax reliefs. So it's our classic bureaucracy again. And even when the opposition, like today, offers the coalition a hand and wants to reduce individual procedures with concrete proposals, it is unfortunately rejected by classical winged – we will prepare a better system solution. It will also be evident today that the government, despite identifying the same shortcomings in the enforcement of the law and agreeing with all the suggestions made by the applicants, rejects their proposal. That logic is hard to understand. The proposal is not intended to be suitable for further consideration only because the government is preparing its tax reform in this area, under which a proposal for a law on specific tax treatment of the remuneration of workers will also be prepared. With its entry into force, the current Law on the Participation of Workers in Profit will cease to apply. What if the government coalition and government changed this order and instead of the winged "we will reject you and prepare a systemic measure" said – we will adopt your law at first reading and upgrade it in second and third reading. Why does the government coalition not take such a constructive approach? Let me add that it is difficult to believe in two things: that the government attaches to all the arguments of opposition candidates, but does not want to deal with them further. In fact, so far, it has not reached out to any extent, and we doubt that it will also be when it comes to the sharing of profits among employees. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that today's proposal for a new law could help in the short term to ensure that, on the basis of the expected profits, several companies choose to pay their profits. Certainly, this proposal is not without mistakes and would be applied in some sections and proposals to complement it. It is not right, however, that such an initiative and such a proposal should already be eliminated in the cassation itself and that the law is not suitable for further consideration. It is precisely because of such things that Parliament is aware of the three-phase treatment so that in further procedures possible errors can be remedied or that, due to our debate and our debates, individual laws can be improved. And since we were expecting a different coalition approach, I can only conclude that we are disappointed that this law is likely to be rejected at first reading. The recipe for successful companies is relatively simple, and every successful entrepreneur knows that, for the first time, he must have satisfactory workers and, for the second time, invest in development. If there are no successful or satisfied workers, it is difficult to produce good products. However, if it does not invest in development, it is behind competition and suddenly its products are no longer sold. And today's bill refers to point one, that's how to increase the satisfaction of workers. In New Slovenia, we will give the bill a chance, we will support it to continue its journey to the next reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u153	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. The text shall be by the proposer of the Magi. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u154	Thank you very much. This is how I can summarise the opinions of the groups of Members. We all agree that the existing law does not produce results. So we probably also agree that something has to be done. I think we're very united here. From here on out, we have one big breakthrough. We have made additions to the law, we propose amendments to increase the number of businesses that would pay profits to workers. Worse than it is, it can't be; I don't know why we wouldn't give that opportunity. You, the vast majority, especially the government coalition, just talk. This is a big difference and a gap between us and you. Ten. 11. Indeed, a mini-tax reform has come to public attention, but I hope, colleagues and colleagues, that in these twelve days you have managed to see what is done systematically with this law. What is the system’s arrangement, and how is the system’s payment of profits made to workers? It's off. This is the systemic solution proposed by the government coalition. And so don't sell to people – because we would, for that, we're still in favour of a mandatory profit sharing; but you don't give the marriage, as I said, no harm can be done, it can only be a benefit. And I've been talking to a few entrepreneurs. And with this proposal, we introduce that this payment can be considered a relief. And that's stimulation, say entrepreneurs; but no, you're going to say no, systemic rescue I don't know until when, respected colleagues and colleagues. Even from the minister who is with us today, I don't know if I can expect an answer on how he assesses the system's solution to the abolition of workers' profits, when European recommendations have been made for many years, but I have already mentioned a far more capitalist country than Slovenia, these are the United States of America, where businesses pay significantly more profits. We in the opposition can't do more than propose. If you're up against it, you're up against it. At the end of the year, when nothing will be done, because it is the practice of this coalition and this government to promise a systemic solution, and then for at least one year to do nothing, I can tell you, for example, the Energy Act, which we have also tabled and promised to seek systemic solutions, is withdrawn; but people in this country cannot live. It needs to be made up. If you're against it, you're against it; tell me why. But not to support everything we write; but – for the time being, we will do it systematically. Those of you who really want to at least try to increase the number of businesses and the number of workers paid off will at least give this law an opportunity to improve it and to adopt it together. The system solution can still improve further. This is not an argument that the law we proposed could not enter into force with 1. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Your system solution is likely to turn out somewhere in 2020 if you continue to do so. I can only ask for thought or ask you to reconsider whether it is really difficult to support the proposal because it comes from the opposition; although in some ways everyone knows that it is better than it is today.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr Tillen Christmas has the floor to prepare Mr Janko Weber, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u156	Thank you for your word. There seems to have been a little excitement about this proposal, as quite a few people were mentioned before me; but good, we are going to the content. As far as this proposal is concerned, the first thing that I think is different between what the ministry has put into public debate and what is on the table here is that this law, even as a machine, is dealing with profit sharing. The other is a little bit more focused on the way employees are rewarded, which is basically two little different concepts. The other thing that I think we should talk a little bit more about is that the current variant assumes that you have a share and you have a cash scheme in the old law. A share scheme is possible for those who have a shareholding company, logically. And then there's a third option, which is much simpler when I look at it comparatively in relation to the other two variants. And then there's the question of whether these two can even be up to date. Maybe this is the first question. How was it possible that those other two might not have tried to adjust in order to come to the same ground? Because somehow it seems to me that the sharing of profits among workers, regardless of how we deal with them, should be under roughly the same conditions as the employer or companies should then decide on one of the systems. In the end, they will have the same effect, but they will find their own in terms of how they want to stimulate employees. Whether this is a share option, or a share scheme, is a partial variant of some options because it is a prohibition of possession three years after the allocation and similar; or monetary; or for any other. Secondly, I dealt with this, this was adopted in 2008. Under that legislation, as laid down, this could in fact not be counted for 2009, which means that we are talking about a decision in the second half of 2010, which means the first division in 2011 or under the conditions met in 2013, which already had a very large time horizon. Your solution narrows it down a little bit, but again, it's a question of why it doesn't interfere with those two solutions that have already been. The advantage of this — then as a tax advisor — was to a large extent limited to tax advisers because companies called and asked: Does this pay us, what can we do, how can we set up a scheme to reward employees? Of course, even through these consultations, in most cases it was found that such a way of awarding was most likely, at least in those policies that had already been set up in some way, and given what they wanted to achieve with the award, it was almost impossible to tailor them to some of the wishes or some of the guidelines that society had already adopted. And also this result, you said it nicely, Mrs Bratušek, how much interest there was, was actually lower than was expected at the time when this law was passed; you could say in some way even negligible. There are some weaknesses in this old marriage that have not been opened, and I find this to be somewhat problematic. I see two things here. First, inside is defined for the time when you do not get, for those other two schemes that you are entitled to interest. And then interest is considered to be interest on deposit. And what you determine for yourself is what the interest rate will be, but it must not be lower than the deposit rate. Some society, if it were so innovative, would say – okay, 100% interest rate, if I hold it for more than three years, we don't tax it. It is said that this law has such a hole in it and a hole that is likely to somehow have to be addressed; for the most beautiful thing is, when you put — at least in tax legislation — a limit that is unlimited from the bottom up or unlimited from the top down. This, in turn, allows for a more imaginative freeway and tax planning. And the additional issue is this administrative complication. Because the administrative complexity of this law is of great interest. We are talking about what the timeframes are here, because you have different deadlines, different actions that need to be done – from notification, to calculation, how it should be done, to recognition of some share of the costs, how this is accepted, how an agreement between employees, during management, finally between owners, of which more than 50% must agree. Then it must be placed in the company's statute. Then it is necessary to inform the employee in a precise manner that he has this right for this year and for all years. There is also a specific rule on how to obtain this application and entry into the register; it is precisely the specification of how this must be done. Here we go to such philosophies and details that we do not reach the end. For example, within 30 days you must be informed that a decision has been taken to share this profit. Within 60 days, there may be a request; and all these matters. These hands are really exciting, bureaucratic. And if we move on now, I have a few little questions. As far as these conditions are concerned, you've already said in the introduction, if I understand you correctly, you assume that 30% and then two wages. You've somehow ruled out all the other conditions, as if you were referring to the other two schemes, cash and equity, if I understand correctly. That's all I care about. As far as these shortcomings are concerned, I wonder if you're worried about them being addressed. For example, from the interest I have mentioned to one point, Article 27 states that the Ministry is responsible for supervision. Which one? Probably one of the ministries. That kind of thing's in there. I was wondering if you had devoted yourself to it or how you could improve it. The general thought I have here is that the other two schemes are putting themselves in a situation which is significantly worse. For my understanding, when a solution is being made when dealing with profit sharing, it is necessary to come up with the same option, regardless of whether you will share the future profit as you say it, some assessment of future profits; whether we will talk about shares that will be given to employees; or whether we will talk about another cash scheme that is also envisaged here with some delay. If we look at another matter that's in here. I would also like to make remarks on what you said by repealing this law, which was provided for by the Ministry. I do not think that this would stop the participation of workers in profits because it is envisaged by the GAG and also by the Labour Relations Act. It is true, however, that this would eliminate preferential tax treatment and probably make it less interesting. However, I do not think it is true – given that our legislation allows profit to be shared – that this would be abolished, because the division of profits would of course be possible, but would normally be taxed as income from the labour relationship; with all the contributions and taxes that belong to it. And from here on out, one more thing. You mentioned that, according to your concept, it will not be a relief, but a tax-recognition or, I apologize, "the profit paid is not a subject of taxation, but a relief". [[…]] I think that in your case it is quite the opposite; you have proposed that this would be a tax-recognised expense from the point of view of corporate income tax; but it is not a relief, as is the case with other reliefs. But these are small things. Now here is the last thing I want to know – if we are going to look at marginal tax rates on income. If you are in some income class to receive a little more than a minimum wage, your final tax rate or the marginal tax rate you are meeting would be around 32.9% because it contains contributions. If you are in the 16% class – 43.6; if you are in the 27% – 51, if you are in the 41% – 60.5; if you are in the 50% – 66.5. At 100 extra euros, if you're in the 50% class, the country takes 66 away from you, you get 33. According to your proposal, as I see it, you are supposed to be taxed as a dividend, so this is a 25% rate, not included together in the income. If the company errs in its assessment of the amount of this profit to be shared, then this is still taxed on the income of legal persons. We come to some marginal tax rate or, in this case, an effective, 37 percent or more. It is said to fall somewhere between those with a 0 per cent class or the first income class of 16 per cent. After this concept, as set out, I suppose that companies would take the initiative to predict if they want to share an enormous profit, regardless of whether they ever reach it; because if we look at all the other classes, it's 16-, 27-, 41-, 50-percent tax grade, in any case, the division of that profit would be less than if we gave it over pay. I just want to know what your thinking would be or how you put it in that ranking. I look at it this way if you predict in advance that this is such a low tax rate, even though it would have stimulated someone to give too much advice, because it would be better for him than if he didn't tell anything or less; if there might be a better solution here, such that you don't stimulate them to predict wrong data. At this stage, that would be all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u157	Thank you very much. The text shall be by the proposer of the Magi. Alenka Bratusek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u158	Thank you very much. I will try to answer no matter what, Mr Christmas, that you have already said in advance that you will vote against it. I agree with the initial statement, we should talk more about it. And if this law were to be further discussed, we would be talking at the committee, at the second reading and at the third reading, we would have talked a lot about it, and we would probably be able to resolve a lot of things. Here you asked me about the existing law, where Article 27 states, "The Ministry is responsible for overseeing the implementation of other provisions of this law." It is necessary to reverse one side where the fifth paragraph of Article 21 reads as follows: "The Ministry responsible for the economy (hereinafter referred to as the Ministry)..." It seems clear, although I did not write the basic law, but I think it is quite clear that this ministry is responsible for the economy. Why haven't we stopped the other two schemes? Simply because for those companies that fit them, I don't know why we should restrict them. We have added another one which, according to our assessment, is more stimulating for businesses. That's the only reason I don't know why. For 56 companies, obviously this way, which currently exists, is enough. And I don't know why we should make them go the third way now. We have estimated, as I said, that we have also talked to quite a few entrepreneurs that our third path is better than others and, above all, more stimulating. The advantage is for everyone, for the owner and for the employee. Yes, we have decided that this is not considered to be a wage, but it is another tax category; again, also because we think it is more stimulating for the company and for the worker. And you can trust me that the month before companies give out their balance sheets, they know exactly what the business outcome will be, how good it will be. This is not determined in June, but a month before the issue of the balance sheet. I think that this is totally acceptable and I do not know why employers or owners would have a greater interest in showing more profits than in the end. Because if it is true, then also with those – I will now say in quotations that you will not hold me to the floor – by relief, they will not pay the tax, they have no interest in deceiving themselves because they are deceiving themselves. In short, we add a third option because we estimate that with small, medium and large enterprises, we also have three categories here, the pool can be expanded; and with one interest in dividing more profits among workers. And I really don't know why it's so hard to understand.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u159	Thank you very much. The replica has Mr. Tillen Christmas, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u160	In one part, I was a little misunderstood. I know that companies already know very well how much profits there is before the end of the year, but my question went in this direction, given how you put the issue that the tax rate will be even if they predict wrong, is actually worth predicting wrong. That was my thought. Then why do we go in this direction if it pays to predict wrongly so that we do not find a slightly different solution? It's not about them deceiving themselves, it's just to make it worth their while. It is worth telling them that instead of 100,000 euros they will have a million profits; at an additional 900 000 euros they will then still pay significantly less taxes, it is worth the contributions and income they would pay if they paid their salaries. Then there's an interesting door open here that likes to happen. It's like that when you squeeze it, then it goes somewhere and into all the holes you didn't close before. Then comes the next situation, so that the wages start to flow there, it's called a mass of wages, some mass for the prize. Then there is one advantageous option where this money could be somewhat uncontrolled, because such matters cannot be calculated as accurately as other matters, so that the effect they would achieve would then be unexpected; and in a negative direction. Since we still have a situation when we stay in the cash registers, it is to say, when we talk about a health treasury where there is no possibility of transfers, we lose money. My controversy has somehow gone in this direction, not without them not knowing what it is or how much to deceive themselves in publishing profits; but to make it worth their while.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mr Jožef Horvat, then Mrs Andreja Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u162	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! I think that today's law is an example of finding that, if I may say so, we pay little attention when we adopt the law, how this law is implemented in practice as well. And when we talk about the Law on the Participation of Workers in Profit, which was adopted in 2008, and when we find that, according to the data provided by the applicant, it is up to 20. Ten. 2015 in the register of contracts entered into only 55 companies, then it was really a long time ago before trying to point out this problem, which obviously is. To talk about a systemic solution, the fact is that in this law that is currently in force, we have a systemic solution. But obviously this system solution does not work in practice or works to a very small extent. Is it really necessary to open a debate on a new system solution, or would it not be good to examine the shortcomings of existing legislation, including the proposal of the proposers? What does that actually mean in practice? And then talk about what to do in the future. When we look at the comparative implementation of legislation in dividing the profits of workers in different countries, it is interesting that in France we are successfully implementing several different schemes, as we somehow do in our system law. In 2003, for example, after what was written in the text, EUR 4.9 billion was distributed to 0.8 million employees on the basis of the distribution of savings in France. I use France because it also encouraged me to think about information – when they celebrated the 40th anniversary of Revoz's operation, the workers received a doughnut for this purpose. You are surprised that it is not possible to take advantage of the existing law to allow workers to participate in profits and thus to give them one really good incentive to work in advance. In general, however, I think it is necessary to find out that people in Slovenia are extremely willing to work and work extremely hard. And as much as people as people in Slovenia, there is virtually no place to meet, even within European countries, within the European Union. We find that we are Slovenians among the most cautious. Everything that would happen in the direction of sharing profits between employees, between workers and workers will certainly not be lost money; but will be deliberately put forward. But of course, the shapes are different. As has been said, none of the current forms are abolished; a new one is added, and perhaps it would already apply within these open articles, to consider whether a new system solution, which the government is considering, should be incorporated into this law. I must admit that I do not know this systemic solution that has been discussed; perhaps we could hear more about this topic at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Mrs Andreja Potočnik should be prepared for her, Mr Franc Laj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues! As stated in the position of the Group of Members, we and, of course, will vote in person by amending the Law on the Participation of Workers in Profit to give an opportunity for a further parliamentary procedure. We, as you know, walk around the field, visit micro, small, medium-sized enterprises, family farms and so on. We have wonderful, very successful companies that regularly pay their workers regress, Christmas. We hear repeated statements on the ground in different regions such as: we are a small family company, we have 90 employees, we work with 40 countries and our workers have no right to buy a yacht as a director. That is why I would like to see a rhetoric disappear from our discussions once and for all, from which it is generally understood that employers are the tyrants who extort workers. That's not true. Of course, there are deviations, of course there are irregularities and illegalities; but please, we must not generalize them. I must say, I am pleased that distinguished colleague Alenka Bratušek recalled that this law was passed on 29 February 2008. At that time, I recall a meeting of the parliamentary group, where the then finance minister Dr. Andrej Bajuk, who drew the law from a drawer where he had been for 11 years, and since 1997, the law has been in the drawer. Dr. Bajuk brought it to the parliamentary office and then within the SDS, SLS, NSI and Desus coalition we agreed to move forward with this law; and it was adopted. It is interesting that usually workers’ participation in profit is more often spoken of by politicians from the left political province; but they only speak and make those from the right. They do something good for the workers. The question is whether it makes sense to wait for a systemic solution that I see on the other hand, colleagues and colleagues. If we are talking about the participation of workers in profit, we need to work on this, create such a business environment to make this profit as much as possible; then it will also be possible to share this profit among workers. That's what we're talking about. In what way? It's a matter of technique. Or with the proposed law – we see that the existing law, of course because it did not force it, does not work, does not work. So something has to be done. I think it would work if we had more profits without companies having such liquidity problems as they have because there is no payment discipline and so on. That's what this is about. Today's debate should be at least half the time in this direction to increase the profit category. Of course, it's not a matter of this law, it's a matter of the whole business environment, it's a very complex matter. Many times, New Slovenia – to Christian Democrats, you are the one protecting the capital. The answer is yes, we are protecting capital because we are advocating a social market model for the economy where man is at the forefront and man is the most important capital. So we're protecting the man, that's what this is about. Yeah, we're protecting capital, so, man, that's what this is about. And only for that. And once again, I show our programme where the headline says Christian Democratic Economic Policy – the social market economy. Social market economy; not just market economy. And we are convinced that Slovenia's path to success is under pressure from lower taxes, simple procedures and an open economy; it also says on the front page. Unfortunately, we do not have enough political power in this mandate to be able to realize everything we have written here, even with the help of external competent people. Today, the mini-tax reform announced by Mr Maramor has already been mentioned. This has raised a lot of dust, no one is satisfied with it, we don't know it yet because it hasn't come into the parliamentary procedure. They're not happy, as I hear, they're not happy with the unions, they're not happy with the employers. And one of the important characteristics of the business environment is tax stability. Why would a foreign investor come to us and invest here – and of course a domestic investor – if he doesn't know what will happen in two years. He doesn't know at what rate, at what rate the capital will be taxed. He doesn't know. Therefore, tax stability and, of course, political stability are needed to enable the investor to see what will happen to his capital. If I can only briefly assess this projected tax reform, which is not the main topic of this agenda item, it is certainly important because we are talking about the participation of workers in profits. We need to talk about the profit category. And these profits are not, or are, too low, in general, too low. Despite economic growth and so on, profits are too low. And then it is no wonder that this law, which we have since February 10 and March 10, 2008 was published in the Official Journal, is not implemented. No wonder there's nothing to share if, of course, we take creative accounting into account; you know what I mean. And with this new tax reform, companies, such an expert assessment, would lose half of the development and investment benefits. Reform is also all the more so as an incentive to revive the already sleepy capital market, which has suffered a severe blow due to the vagabond of privatisation, mostly state-owned companies. As the tax rate after years of securities ownership will not decrease, if this Marble proposal is adopted, only long-term savers will be punished. This is not a political assessment of the opposition, it is an expert's assessment. And I simply trust them because they are not people who are who they are; they are people who know something about taxes, about the business environment and so on. There are many such matters in this mini reform, which is proposed for a person to be able to assess that he has no contact with real life. And now it is likely that we will be forced to accept new laws in the last days of this calendar year, since it makes sense, of course, that the new laws, the new laws, will begin to apply with 1. 1. the following year. If this mini-tax reform is enforced, we will – I am sure – have a large movement of capital abroad. Well, that's what high school students know, that capital is a bird's wing. And that capital, expressed in money, or capital as a man with knowledge, with competences. We know that. The young educated are leaving us. I don't know if this reptile has stopped yet. I'd like to have official information that the brain drain plasma has stopped. I don't have that information yet. And also capital in a narrower sense is a shy bird. And so just to say that capital is undertaxed, capital needs to be taxed and so on – yes, capital will fly away, it will simply fly abroad because you do this today. It is therefore necessary to pursue tax reforms, the business environment and, in the sense that businesses will be better able to realise that basic entrepreneurial passion, which is the growth of the business. And as businesses grow, more jobs will also be opened. We have heard before, we would like to have with Slovenian wood, when we know better how to exploit it, so that we can get between 10,000 and 20,000 new jobs. Yeah, I'll be the first one to congratulate all those who can do it a little bit. I regret that the majority in this House have indicated the disfavor of the amendment to the Law on the Participation of Workers in Profit. I think we should give him a chance to clean it in second reading, adapt it, improve it, there are options. It is not ideal; but if it were the right will, we could turn this will into an improvement of the law. That would be, believe me, a very good signal for the workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u165	Thank you very much. The text shall be by the proposer of the Magi. Alenka Bratusek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Today is November 23rd, and we are hearing about a systemic solution to the division of profits for workers. Dear Minister, I ask you to tell us on November 23rd, because tax laws usually apply from November 1. 1. that it is clear to businesses what will be expected in the next business year, what will be the systemic solution; or make it clear that it will not be in the next year. That's the first thing. Second thing. I absolutely agree with Mr Horvato on tax stability. Predicting tax reform before you know what it's gonna be is irresponsible. Now all of Slovenia is in the air. I am convinced that this government coalition is operating on the basis of a public opinion that at the end of this, there will be nothing, because nobody supports this mini reform. Finally, there will be a public opinion against and you will put it in the drawer and it will be over. Dear colleagues and colleagues, those who really care about getting more workers, here in particular I appeal to the United Left, SD, Desus and also to those in the SMC who understand this subject, let us support this law at first reading. I agree that he is not perfect, and that is why we have a multi-stage adoption of laws in the National Assembly. Although my colleague Christmas is not here, I will tell him that I am still convinced that, on the basis of the proposal we have tabled, there is nothing to suggest that the owners show greater profits. If this fear exists and is justified, of course, the amendment can be arranged further. I am pleased that we are having a meaningful conversation, but even more substantively, solutions could be sought in the next steps. Despite the fact that you've all announced your opposition to this law in the government coalition, I appeal once again that by tomorrow when there is a vote, you see that there is nothing terrible in this law. You yourself said that by raising VAT you have made room for manoeuvre or for changes in the field of other taxes; and this is certainly one of those. It won't cost that much the state budget. As they say - where there is will, there is also the way. If there's no will, there's no way to find it. But not to say how you feel about the workers, not to say how good it is to give them more; but not now, we will systematically in no way know how many years we have been looking for this. Except, Minister, if you can serve us today with a concrete system solution, which you will propose and will enter into force with 1. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This is what we propose with this novel.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mrs Andreja Potočnik has the floor to prepare Mr Franc Laj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u168	President, thank you for your word. As has been said several times and also found at the beginning of the debate, we also find that the current Law on the Participation of Workers in Profit has not come to life in the Group of the Modern Centre Party. In particular, two obstacles have been identified, the first is an administrative obstacle and the second is an obstacle to a one-year or three-year suspension of payment for the implementation of tax reliefs. I personally strongly agree with the need to reward successful workers. Emphasis would be given to successful workers, particularly those who enable the biggest growth of the company, those who make the biggest added value in the company, and those who actually contribute to the biggest growth of our country's GDP. This reward, however, makes sense if it is more tax-friendly. As you have already heard, there was a public debate of 10. 11 days so-called mini-tax reform. Yes, the affection of the current public does not indicate the best. It was mentioned earlier that the minimum tax reform repeals this law. Yes, but you forgot to add something else, namely to provide for a new law called the Special Tax Treatment Act. This law is supposed to replace the current law, which we find has not been brought to life. And it is not right to stress that this law is abolished and that nothing is done for workers. This law stipulates that there is no need to pay social contributions from the prizes; it says that only half of the income paid for income is included in the tax base for income. This means that employers will be able to be rewarded without high taxes, while also making it easier for profitable companies to attract successful staff because we always find that the problem is successful in Slovenia, says those who have some engineering knowledge that has some higher technological knowledge. Then they run abroad, where they're more valued and where they can get higher wages. As regards the burden, the proposal states that some 30 million are foreseen for the financial implications of the state budget. That's relative. If we say it's small or large, it depends. At this time in which we are, in this financial situation, 30 million is not so little money, that is my personal assessment. And from this point of view, because of these financial consequences of this law, I cannot support it. I expect or believe that we will not wait a year for a new system proposal; but that it will happen soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u169	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Alenka Bratusek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u170	I hope we know the difference between rewarding the worker's performance during the flight. You absolutely have my support for the so-called 13th and 14th wages to relieve the charge. Tomorrow, don't wait till New Year's Eve, we'll do it tomorrow. I can tell you that I had calculations on the table; and if one government had stood before, that would have been the first thing. Second thing, profit sharing is something else. This is where the owners give up something to get the workers. Not to compare these things. There are already 13 and 14 salaries and profit payments. So we're canceling the payout, and we're gonna unload that part a little bit. This is the essence of the so-called mini-tax reform. The fact is, the payout is cancelled. And I don't know if Slovenia will be the only European country that doesn't know it. Take a look at European practices and also the recommendations of the European Commission, not yesterday, but a few years ago. I think we mentioned them in this proposal of the law. As for the tax effects, let me remind you that for the last time, with one quick swing and a push on the button, you increased your debt by 61 million without a problem. No problem. That says 30 is half the size of it. Nor is such a problem, I agree, is a problem; but it is not such a problem, if 61 million can just like that, here you have fought like lions for it, then even if it does, it can be less effective. If you have anything to do with this, do not look for arguments against it, but try to find the will to support this law, we will continue to improve it. When you come up with systemic solutions, if they're better, I'll tell you now that you have my voice for the same marriage, if we accept it, to end it; just make sure they're better and keep them on the table. Not just teaching us what it's gonna be like once, but now you have concrete suggestions on the table. As I have said many times today, they count actions and not words. People can't live with words. And by the way, I have already said, more payouts have also had a positive impact through spending on economic growth, with which you would like to boast. If you really mean what you say, but then you end up adding – but I can't, I can't, I don't know, I don't know. With that but stop, support, fix it further, I agree. We are three Members, five people in the National Assembly are still working for us, one is still at our party, we are less than ten, so you understand that we cannot prepare systemic solutions as a ministry. We are willing to talk and do things so that they will be as good as possible for workers and for people; show yourself willingly; you need nothing else at this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Laj has the floor to prepare Mr Ivan Škodnik. Here you go, Mr. Ly.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u172	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I think we are very easily discussing this subject, which is very important, because we need to be aware of who decides to share the profits. Colleague, the owners are those who take decisions at the assembly, what share of the profits will be distributed and what share of the profits will remain for the further development of the company. This law, which is currently in force, is seen from publicly available data, has not achieved its purpose and purpose, but we have to ask ourselves why. Where are the main causes, the underlying reasons that things haven't come to fruition? Let me say, perhaps even from practice, that certain solutions are good. Let's say, as far as the tax aspect is concerned, after three years, if it comes from a monetary scheme registered by the Ministry of the Economy and valid, after that period, the worker can raise the money or pay the share without tax. But the problem is that it takes three years to wait; and what can happen in these years. That's the next problem. In particular, this law has benefited large companies and companies that have not suffered liquidity problems that have made it easier to obtain money, liquidity in capital markets. That is why we see that, above all, medium-sized enterprises and small enterprises have fallen out of this system. That is why I also call on the government and the competent ministries in some way to live with this right to abolish these bureaucratic, particularly complex procedures, based on these analyses, which show these weaknesses in order for more businesses to do so. As far as the tax aspect is concerned, that part of the cash scheme should look at what can be done, to what extent it can be optimised to such an extent that the sustainable public financial negative effects are also acceptable. I think that's the most important thing. Everything else about whether our business environment is competitive or not, we have said about it, we have to get absolutely close to all the systems we meet in the targeted markets, that we are sustainable, that we are competitive. I apologize, the Austrian Prime Minister, when they have 13 and 14 salaries, this is something else again, as the colleague also mentioned, the division of profits; this is again another matter, a completely different category. I think that we are all aware of the most important fact that the integration of labour and capital is extremely important in achieving good business results, in achieving higher added value and in ensuring the stable growth of a certain economic society. And this is the only way out and this is where we think about where to look for these solutions, so that there will be a sustainable situation for the economy on the one hand and for public finances on the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u173	Thank you very much. I give the word "magic." Alenka Bratusek, as we call it today.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u174	Thank you. Thank you, Comrade Laj, for confirming that there are two categories. One is the 13th and 14th wages; but your colleague convinced me that it didn't matter. And also this mini-tax reform, it all mixes up a little bit. It is true, I agree, that the owners are the owners – and they must remain, in my opinion – who decide to share the profits. We just want to create a slightly more stimulating environment with this novel than today in order for workers to get more. That's all. Is that really so hard to understand?Oh, my God! And somewhere else I'm going to challenge you in some way. Large companies have not benefited from the payment of profits under this law. Just a big one. And no matter who took advantage of them or those 56 companies, we are still leaving this option and adding a third. By tomorrow, it's still time to think about changing your mind. Despite having 20 minutes of time, the Minister does not want to reveal to us the secrets of the system's solution in the area of sharing the profits of workers; I'm sorry, but okay. You can wait for the system solution and then support it. A solution that doesn't hurt at all, but it only brings an extra open door, but it's on your desk. It's really so hard to support something that didn't come out of the government's fingers or the ruling coalition. Consider if this is really a big enough reason for you to reject the good thing.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mrs. Andreja Potočnik has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u176	Thank you for your word. I just want to point out that I was misunderstood. I didn't say these were the same categories. I argued that you, Mrs Bratušek, said that this law was being abolished in the mini-tax reform; but you forgot to add that we were preparing something else. And I never said it was the same thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Ly has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u178	Certainly, colleague Alenka, very large companies have taken advantage of these opportunities by law. Why? Because they could also afford these procedures, because it's just an extra cost. Small businesses and medium-sized enterprises were largely left out of this. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mr. Jan Škoberne has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u180	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! In some ways it is uncomfortable to follow the debate on such an important law in such an empty hall. Speaking up, we were being debated, or we're going to be 5 out of about 25 reported. If I understand correctly, this is less than 8% of the entire assembly, although it is probably not among the less important topics and despite the fact that the substantive part of the debate that took place is that we have something to discuss and that it is something to say; it is either what Mr Bozič said, which said that there is a great deal of question, whether it is possible to enforce the law in such a way that there is no tax abuse, or whether we are talking about what colleague Bratušek says, that there is a need to say, what and how the law should be done better if we assess that it is not appropriate for further consideration at this point. But well, that's how Monday developed. Usually Mondays are like that. The fact that it is essential for the Social Democrats is true, it remains another day. As you have understood through your position, we have taken the right to think about this before the vote. In our position, we have said that there are two things that are substantively problematic for us at this point, namely, the question of how this divided profit is dealt with at all, and the question of how it is shared. According to the existing proposal of the novel, which is unacceptable for us at this point, if we have 10 units of profits and 10 employees, we could divide each unit; however, depending on how much of the employees in the workplace already earn their salaries, they will receive a proportionate share of the profits. This means that those with the lowest wages will also receive a relatively minimum share of this profit. This is one of the issues that should be addressed and answered and worth discussing. I am not saying that the best solution is reversed, it is said that those with the highest wages would get a lower share of profits, and those with the lowest possible higher; and they would try to achieve some solidarity, some social cohesion through this. Perhaps the most just solution would be for everyone to get the same piece. But these are the substantive things that should be discussed here today. Also about how the novelty is acceptable to the economy, to capital owners, to companies. I must be honest to say that I am missing the opinion of the representative chambers here, who would probably have something to say. It is difficult to talk about such important things if no one wants to talk or if no one talks about alternatives. We Social Democrats already proposed a law in 2010, if I recall correctly, in 2010, with the idea that the sharing of profits between employees must be compulsory. I am still on my own, and I think that the majority of our parliamentary group, too, are most fond of this solution. But political reality is such, and I believe that even the reality in the economy, in society, is less likely to be able to accept such a proposal, so the key question is how the next alternative is. One of these is the one represented today by colleague Bratušek. For us, at several points, there is a flaw and we cannot give him support in this form; but it is not impossible to improve. Perhaps I will join the view of those who rightly ask themselves today where the government's position on this issue is. I would also like to see the trifle of a more narrow debate, not just from the Minister for the Economy, because this law is significantly broader by its effects and by its substantive framework. Therefore, in some way, he asks the proposer or Mrs Bratusek, on behalf of the proposaler, to define up to the concerns we have in the Group of Social Democrats, based on the presentation of the Group's position. And on the other hand, perhaps at least the expectation that at the conclusion, the minister would also say a word or two [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr Zdravko Restoršek, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u182	Thank you, Chairman. Ambassadors and Members of Parliament, distinguished candidate! I've listened to the criticism all along, in short, never to listen to your proposal. You know that our ministry has already accepted one of your proposals, we have agreed and put it through, although this was either a proposal or one of the issues that was part of my programme at the time of the Ministry's performance. We can also listen to the opposition's proposals. It is a proposal to re-establish the Slovenian Tourism Organisation. Let me get back to the subject we're discussing today. We are all aware that the economy is the engine that drives us; within this export-oriented economy. Our job at the Ministry of the Economy is primarily to enable this engine to better compete with conditions that will enable it to work successfully on foreign markets in particular, because we said that we are successful in this field. In this area, the three main tasks we are dealing with in the ministry are to reduce administrative obstacles, flexible labour legislation towards a number of fixed-term and third contracts, which we are talking about today or what your proposal is talking about, at least I understand it, is the cost of labour, where we find that we are competitive in lower-level pay grade; we have problems in the upper part. And as part of this reform, at the beginning of the year, our ministry approached the drafting of the law, when it was a proposal for a law on the award of the performance of profit workers. However, since we wanted to extend the range of awards not only to companies but also to espies and others, we have come to the conclusion that a law on specific tax treatment of the remuneration of workers, which has one condition – the condition that a legal entity wishing to enforce this law has a profit. On the inside, we have identified or prepared a proposal to share no more than 20% of the profits, that this is the upper limit that I hope we will complete; 5,000 euros, no more than two salaries, exemption from social contributions, at the expense of only 50% of the income. These are the key issues of this proposal, which is part of this small tax reform. Why the part? Since, due to the public financial situation, every intervention in public cash must be balanced. We think and also believe that there will need to be another run-off and another run-off on the relief segment that you have talked about; the substantive proposal of this law is short, clear and useful in contrast to the law that we now have in 2008 and in which I agree with everything that you have said about this law. I am dissatisfied with the dynamics we have achieved in this area, but I apologize for the need to achieve a balanced public financial approach; also for this law, which will be one step forward and allow employers to reward more successful workers more rationally; and for workers who are successful, it will also bring greater satisfaction. Therefore, I believe that, within a really short period of time, we will make further efforts and that this law, which I believe does not need any upgrades, will place this balanced public financial situation to the point that it will be realized. You asked me when. I believe that there will be an effort to make this happen this year, but you must be aware that this solution will only be done if it is satisfied in the economy. We're not gonna force someone to do something that's wrong. We're not gonna do it. However, I believe that the law, once again, is the product of almost an annual debate with the economy, with all its organisations, with large and small entities. As I said, it went into this form of special tax treatment because we wanted to extend the number of entities from businesses to espouses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u183	Thank you very much. In the final part, I invite more mags to the word. Alenko Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Thank you, too, Minister. I thought I would have to say as in one beautiful Slovenian story – Minister Zdravko nothing. But what you said doesn't inspire me with optimism. I believe that you have a lot of contacts with your colleagues from the economy and that they have also made comments to you on the so-called mini tax reform that I – and it was – have understood as a package. It's all or nothing. It will not be possible to get out of contexts 13 and 14 without contributions if I say according to homework, which I can tell you right now is that I absolutely support. I would appeal to you once again to consider whether it really makes sense in this part to limit this only to profit-making companies. The cost of work is a cost to the company and their profits are reduced. Maybe it doesn't make any sense. Once again, pay and reward for work is one thing, and profit sharing is another thing. And don't stop what the world practically knows. Once again, today's debate has shown that we all agree that the existing solution does not work and that changes are needed. More than that, I have prepared the law, and once again I appeal to my colleagues and colleagues to make this small change, if it is not systemic, support in the light of the fact that we give companies the opportunity, not the obligation, but the possibility of paying workers more. Believe that this will also be known positively in economic growth. In the end, I think it is a decade — not a word, but the actions are what will be better in our country. From words, from beautiful words, unfortunately, people can't live. By tomorrow, you still have time to consider whether this law is really so bad, so negative that it can be corrected in further consideration and on the committee to the extent that it is acceptable to the ruling coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u185	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the debaters' proposals. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much, then I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to decide that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the course of the meeting, tomorrow, 24 November, in the framework of the votes. I'm breaking up with this 36th item of the agenda. I am also adjourning the 13th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you very much.
