ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the 9th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Tanja Zink, Mrs. Ludmila Novak, Mrs. Iva Dimic from 2 p.m. on, mag. Margareta Guček Zakošek from 16:00 on, Dr. Milan Brglez from 18:00 on, mag. Marko Pogačnik, Dr Matej T. Vatovec, Mr Jan Mahnic from 2 p.m. on, Mr Ivan Škodnik and Mr Igor Zorčič from 12 p.m. on. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 13. At the end of the day, this is on the proposal of a law on the supplementation of the law on retirement and invalidity insurance in the first defence. The draft law was tabled by a group of 21 Members and Members with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 21 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Mr Zvonk Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u2	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose to supplement the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. The Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which was adopted on 20 July 1983, provided for insurance for farmers and members of their households in Articles 10 and 11. It was stipulated that farmers and members of their holdings who are engaged in agricultural activities as their sole and principal profession in the Socialist Republic of Slovenia and have the property of a united farmer under the rules on the association of farmers were to be insured. The combined farmers, who were protected from a base not lower than the amount of the lowest full-time pension, were insured as workers in the combined work. Other farmers and members of their households who are engaged in agricultural activities in the Socialist Republic of Slovenia as their sole or principal profession have also been obliged to work with the means on which they are entitled. The method of determining the characteristics of the insurance undertaking, the manner in which the insurance is applied, the manner in which the contributions are paid and the taxpayers are paid has been determined by the Community by means of a self-administrative general act. Those laws provided that the combined farmers could be protected from a base which was not lower than the amount of the lowest pension for the full pension of the worker in the combined work; and thus were protected for the full scope of the rights. Or they were insured for a smaller amount of rights in the event that they were protected from a base lower than the minimum amount of full pension and had the scope of rights than other farmers for which the law did not provide, to what extent they were insured and from which pension bases. In practice, it has been so often that insurance undertakings were registered as other farmers or their family members and paid contributions from a base which was not lower than the amount of the lowest pension for the full pension period. However, they were granted only that they were protected for a narrower scope of rights and to the extent that they were workers in the combined work. Thus, they paid as high contributions as the combined farmers or the combined workers and only were granted insurance for a narrower range of rights. This could have occurred for several reasons. At that time, the rules limited that only the holder of the farm could be insured as a united farmer; all others who worked on the farm were only like other farmers, irrespective of the amount of contributions paid to the insurance system. In addition, errors may have occurred in the entry into the insurance system and farmers paid contributions as joint farmers, even though they were led as other farmers. However, whatever the reasons, there is a fact that certain insurers who have paid the same contributions as others are recognised for different levels of entitlement in pension and disability insurance. That fact means unequal treatment of the right to social protection, which should be eliminated by 31 at the latest. 12. On the basis of Article 1 of the Constitutional Law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which provides that the rules and other general acts which were in force on the date of the promulgation of this Constitution shall remain in force. Certain provisions which do not comply with this Constitution shall be aligned with it by 31 at the latest. 12. 1993. On the basis of the 1992 pension and disability insurance arrangements, the insurers had the opportunity to choose for themselves the extent to which they would be insured; and they adequately paid the amount of the contribution. Notwithstanding this, this provision did not apply backwards, although, in terms of equality in the right to pensions and other social rights, it should apply at least to any debtor who, after the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, applied for the right to a pension; or should also be aligned with those who received the right to a pension before the adoption of the Constitution, regardless of the amount of the contribution they paid in order to be equal to those who paid the contributions paid. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose, on the basis of the proposals that we have received from the field, that there be an injustice, that we correct this injustice by supplementing this law and that pensions be calculated on the basis of paid contributions.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u3	For an introductory explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities for Mr Peter Pogačar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u4	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! With regard to the proposal for the law of the Group of Members, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia introductoryly emphasises that the proposal does not support the law. With regard to the matter in question, we would like to point out that, in all the procedures so far, the assessment of pensions in such cases has never been complemented by insurance under Article 11 of the 1983 ZPIZ, during the period from 1 January 1984 to 31 March 1992. This practice of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance has also been tested and confirmed in judicial proceedings, including in the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. During the whole period of application of those rules, unconstitutionality has also never been established in terms of infringement of the principle of equal treatment. Notwithstanding the fact that two different legal bases for the insurance of persons carrying out the same agricultural activity have been established by the 1983 Act, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has already decided on the case of one of the complainants belonging to the so-called other farmers and has paid the same contributions as other insurers. Since he paid the same contributions and was secured only for a narrower scope, while they remained for the same contributions and were secured from the same insurance base for a wider scope of rights, the complainant claimed in the proceedings a violation of the principle of equality. His constitutional complaint was not accepted as the Constitutional Court took the view that individual groups of insurers could not automatically be equated. The Constitutional Court explicitly stated in its explanation of the case: "The principles of equality cannot be understood as the general equality of all but as an equal treatment of the same factual conditions." All pension and disability insurance laws from 1992 onwards have determined the extent to which the recognition and assessment of the rights on entry into force were based on the determination of the predominantity of the insurance in a narrower or wider scale. In doing so, it is pointed out that there are differences in the amount of the pension only in certain cases. The combined farmers, who paid low contributions and were secured for a narrower range of rights, had the same rights and the same low pensions as other farmers who paid the same contributions. On the contrary, other farmers who paid higher contributions had as high pensions as the combined farmers because their pension exceeded the minimum pension for the full pension period. In view of the above, it is noted that there was no unequal treatment in that case, since these two categories were never in the same starting position. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia also points out that the status, as established in the period to which the supplementary pension period relates, is generally maintained for the recognition of rights, even if the pension is administered under later rules which no longer know such distinction. At the same time, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia also points out that the proposal in question does not regulate sufficiently to repeal or amend the final decisions already issued. We can only understand from the proposal that the regulation in question applies to all pensioners, regardless of when the right was exercised, or regardless of when the right was decided. In addition to this, it is also noted that, even if the whole of the scheme in question is to be introduced, the proposal of the law in question does not regulate in its entirety and sufficiently, since Articles 1 and 2 are partially incomprehensible because the consequences or the procedure to be carried out are not produced. With regard to the financial consequences of the law, however, we oppose the opinion of the proposer, which states that the funds will not be provided from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, as this is not the case. The contributions of the pension fund are no longer sufficient to cover the expenditure of this treasury, which is why a certain part of the funding to cover the deficit is always provided from the State budget. The adoption of this law would increase the expenditure of the pension fund and consequently budgetary expenditure; bearing in mind that the increase in the financial implications cannot be assessed. We also point out that the PPIZ-2 supplement in question is not justified, and it does not follow the trend of regulating pension insurance in the Republic of Slovenia, as, for economic and social reasons, the conditions for retirement are increasingly tightened and, at the same time, there is an increasing dependence on the level of the pension on the contributions paid. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u5	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word shall be given by the Allies' Group, in its name mag. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! Today, a general discussion is under way on the additions of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which seeks to ensure that farmers will receive pensions according to the actual amount of contributions paid. Applicants want to ensure that insurance from agricultural activities registered in insurance as other farmers or their family members is granted full rights insurance by paying contributions from a base which was not lower than the amount of the lowest pension for the full pension period. According to the 1983 law, this possibility was available to farmers who were insured as joint farmers. At first glance, the SDS proposal seems to like it. However, it is true that some farmers have paid as high contributions as the combined farmers and have been granted insurance for a narrower range of rights. This, however, should be inconsistent with the principle of equality, so that the essential equal situations are treated differently. Despite the fact that this is a professional and legal issue, we cannot shake the impression that the backdrop of the proposal is also the political agenda of the SDS for the correction of the injustices that the previous regime is supposed to have committed. Today, the provisions of the 1983 law may seem incomprehensible to us; however, we must be aware that farmers were not included in the single pension and disability insurance system until 1984. Finally, in the case of pension and disability insurance, the social system began to recognise different social statuses to groups such as farmers, craftsmen, lawyers, artists and others. According to his then dominant social paradigm, he also recognised special status within such a narrow group to the united farmers, who today could be called cooperative farmers. He thus encouraged the association of farmers or the formation of the then organizations we now call cooperatives. In the Alliance, we are wondering why, after 31 years of retroactively, the relationship and the legal regime that was adapted to the then social regulation should be regulated. As you know, after the independence and change of the social system in 1992, we decided on a new pension law. The new law was adopted in 1992 by the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia at the meetings of the Society of Political Assembly, the Assembly of Municipalities and the Assembly of Joint Labour. Since then, legislation has no longer separated these insurers in the same way as before. These have the option to choose the extent of the insurance, followed by the amount of the contributions. It is logical, however, that the new legislation in the new social system applies only further. It is worth noting, however, that the new 1992 legislation makes it clear in the transitional provisions that any exercise of the rights set out in this Title for the period under the previous social regime is subject to the rules which were in force pending the entry into force of the new. No one objected to this in 1992 or later. Similar or comparable solutions that no one has proposed to a group of insured persons from the previous social system on a new basis during the entire self-sustainment period, i.e. in 23 years, not to date – not to a Member or Members, nor to a type of SDS, nor to a government. So far, no one has successfully challenged the arrangements on the way or before the Constitutional Court. In the Alliance, we agree with the Government, which points out that the principle of equality cannot be understood as a general equality of all; rather, as an equal treatment of the same factual conditions. And in the previous social regulation, the then legislator decided to encourage what we today call a partnership by fixing the amount of pension insurance. But the insurance companies had the chance to accept it, or they didn't. In the Alliance, therefore, we do not understand why and how we should change the previous system of pension insurance on the basis of the current regime and today's vats. In addition, the SDS had an excellent opportunity to do so when the last pension reform of 2012 was adopted, supported by the Members of the Alliance. However, if the SDS really wants to do something for this group of insurers or farmers, it should actively approach the complications brought about by the last pension reform. Indeed, the implementation of the last pension reform has brought about a new way of determining the insurance base for farmers, according to which the inclusion in the insurance base is no longer defined as defined in the previous pension and disability insurance law; it is individual. And it is in these days that the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia warns that the rules governing the establishment of the insurance base should be regulated in a way that reflects the real income of farms. In the Alliance, we will not support the completion of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u7	The text shall be given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, Mr Simon Zajc, on its behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all, Members and Members! When we are talking about the standard of living of farmers in relation to their social security, it is parallel to the material that deals with the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, it should be pointed out that the circumstances which today encourage farmers to be included in the pension and disability insurance scheme are different from those in 1983, to which the proposal for a law also applies. In 1983, the Pension and Disability Insurance Act separated farmers into two categories, namely united farmers and other individual farmers. At that time, the law stipulated that farmers and members of their holdings who are engaged in agricultural activities in Slovenia as their sole and principal profession and have the property of a united farmer under the rules on the association of farmers. The combined farmers could choose from which basis they could pay their contributions and could be secured for a narrower or wider scope of rights. Other farmers were also able to choose from which basis they would be protected, but not for what extent of rights. In other words, two different administrative categories of insurers, farmers received for the exact same contribution a different range of rights, in favour of so-called united farmers. But the story is not uniform. If we look at the development of pension insurance for farmers, we will find very quickly that almost all laws governing this area have separated farmers into two categories within the individual scheme from 1972 to 1992 and thus have given them different rights and benefits. The 1972 Law on the Age Insurance of Farmers meant the beginning of the pension insurance of farmers, but outside the pension and disability insurance system, since it was not a real pension insurance, but a special form of insurance for farmers for old age. This form of insurance was introduced in order to ensure the minimum social security of farmers in accordance with their economic capacity and the insurance was compulsory. The law then divided farmers into two categories — cooperative farmers and ordinary farmers. The law also defined the minimum circle of insurers. Only a farmer whose agricultural activity was the sole or principal profession or the principal or sole source of earnings could be included in old age insurance. However, other family members or members of the farm economy were not included in the circle of insured persons, although working on the farm was also their only source of survival. The distinction between the rights granted to farmers on the basis of different status is already shown here, although both categories of farmers met the same condition as regards the profession and the source of survival. In addition, farmers who were insured by age were granted only a minimum amount of rights, this is only the right to an old-age pension. The Pension and Disability Insurance Act of 1972 introduced some novelties and assigned that only farmers co-operators had the right to choose insurance. They may have chosen between whether the insured will be insured under the Age Insurance of Farmers Act; or whether they will voluntarily be insured as persons in a working relationship under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. Which meant that they had the same rights as workers and could be enforced under the same conditions, except the right to a protective allowance; the farmer chose the basics between the five bases under which he was insured and therefore also bought the pension period. He followed the Maintenance Protection Act of 1979, which, in addition to the age insurance of farmers and the possibility of including cooperative farmers in the pension and disability insurance scheme, gave farmers an opportunity to improve their social situation by exercising the rights of farmers. Since this insurance was based solely on self-financing, the economic weakness of the farmers themselves has never really brought it to fruition. In 1983 a new Law on Pension and Disability Insurance was passed, which is what we are discussing today, on the basis of which farmers were first included in a single system of pension and disability insurance. The new law referred to the then cooperative farmers as united farmers; the other farmers as individual farmers or other farmers. Compulsory insurance has been introduced for joint and individual farmers or other farmers, although sanctions for those who have not entered into the compulsory insurance scheme have not been defined. In practice, this meant that the insurance depended on the insurer’s will. This is therefore a period during which differences have been demonstrated, as mentioned above, within the scope of the rights of both farmers' status despite the level of contributions paid. A different treatment of two different administrative categories of farmers was carried out by the 1992 Pension and Disability Insurance Act. He's brought three important news. He has abolished the separation of farmers into joint farmers and other farmers, introduced compulsory and voluntary pension insurance, and identified who is even a farmer. Compulsoryly insured farmers could be insured for all insurance cases, a wider scope of entitlements if they paid contributions at least from the insurance base at the level of the lowest pension base. Others who paid contributions from the lowest insurance bases were secured only for a narrower scope of rights, and we are also talking about the 1983 law. In the chronological review of the forms of pension insurance for farmers from 1972 to 1992, it should be pointed out that the country has, in different periods, implemented various incentives for the integration of farmers and related benefits through the legal provisions. The 1983 system of pension and disability insurance also promoted the integration of farmers. It should also be mentioned that it is very important that the Constitutional Court, in its 1997 judgment, has already ruled in the case of so-called other farmers and has taken the view that individual groups of insurers cannot be equated. On the basis of a given review of past forms - I hope that I did not bore you with this - the pension insurance for farmers and the limited decision of the 1997 Constitutional Court of Justice of the Law on the Supplementation of the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, by which the applicant proposes to equalise the level of insurance rights according to the amount of contributions paid in a specific way, we will not support the SMC Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u9	The Member Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Bojan Podkoršek, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u10	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, a good day on my behalf as well! Let me present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group on the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which was adopted in 1983 in the Official Journal of the Socialist Republic of Slovenia 27/1983 and where the debtors may be as joint farmers after the full-time pension period to the extent that they are workers in the combined work. [[…]] Other farmers and members of their holdings who were engaged in agricultural activities in Slovenia as their only and main profession were also able to be insured. Other insured farmers were also, under Article 11 of the Act, those who paid the same amount of insurance contributions as the combined farmers, but are now recognised by the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance as less insurance rights than for all others. Insurers for the full scope of insurance rights, some insurers have also applied to a court which has granted an application and has recognised the full scope of insurance rights because they have paid full contributions. The reason for the adoption of the law is the equivalence of the scope of insurance rights under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act according to the amount of contributions paid, irrespective of the administrative categories of the debtor. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposed law, and we sincerely wish that this law is taken seriously by the other parliamentary groups; for it is a matter of injustice that has been from the past and goes to the benefit of the Slovenes and the Slovenians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u11	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Uroš Prikl, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u12	Dear President, distinguished colleagues, respected colleagues! Allow me to brief you on the position of the Desus Group on the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. We do not support this proposal in the Desus Group. While we understand the situation or intent that this law is intended to solve with the applicant; but as the government says, and we are deeply in agreement with the government's interpretation this time, a key argument against this proposal is the legislator's intention at the time the regulation came into existence — 30 years ago. This is a 1983 law which classified farmers in two categories, namely the category of so-called narrower and wider insurance, with the insurer opting for the option and, consequently, the method of insurance itself. The combined farmers had the option of being insured for a narrower or wider set of entitlements, which in fact meant the option of choosing between insurance from a base which was not lower than the amount of the lowest pension for the full pension period, which meant insurance for a wider scope; and during the insurance against a base which was lower than that, this meant insurance for a smaller amount. For the combined farmers, the difference between the narrower and the wider scope of the insurance was the height of the insurance base, whereas for the other farmer, the choice of the insurance base did not affect the extent of the insurance and had an impact on the amount of the premium pension. The so-called other farmers were insured on the same insurance basis and for a narrower scope of rights, regardless of how high insurance basic they chose. The pension provision of the former year 1983 encouraged the united farmer to provide insurance for more rights, as it was forced by the rules on the merger of farmers by permanent members of the cooperative organisation to combine personal work, agricultural and other land, labour, equipment and money and other resources; while it was not necessary for the other farmer to do so. The obligations of the Joint Farmers were so great that the legislator was justified, including by the different scope of rights in the pension and disability insurance scheme, that category of insurers separated from those who did the same activity, but were not prepared to undertake those obligations. In our parliamentary group, the Desus Group believes that this matter has not been or is not a matter of discrimination or unequal treatment. For certain and clear reasons, the legislator has established different groups of insurers, different conditions and the resulting scope, a set of rights. The Court also plays an important interpretative role in its decision-making in specific cases. From a comparable specific court decision and an accompanying argument, we have been able to read that individual groups of insurers cannot be equated. In general, we can also conclude from the decision-making of the competent courts that the principle of equality cannot be regarded as a general equality of all but as an equal treatment of the same factual situation. It is also important that, in all the procedures so far, there has never been a dispute over the number of insurance periods in the period 1983-1992 for a narrower scope of entitlements. All decisions of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia have been confirmed in judicial proceedings and also in the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. With no judgment has such a period of concern to the drafter of the law today been considered a broader scope of rights. In all periods of application of those rules, their unconstitutionality has also not been established to date. The content of our assessment is not acceptable. In addition, the law is further unacceptable due to a number of discrepants, such as a poorly regulated procedure for revoking decisions and issuing new decisions, a vague definition of beneficiaries, ambiguity of the effect of the recognition of rights. In particular, financial consequences are controversial or inappropriate, as the applicant points out that they will not be available for the budget; we believe that by adopting this law they would, of course, be. For the sake of all this, I conclude that, according to the opinion of the Desus Group, the law is not suitable for further consideration, and we will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u13	The word shall be given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Marija Bachič, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u14	Dear Mr President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow Members! Today we will have a first reading of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, which has been tabled by a group of Members and Members of Parliament in the legislative procedure. The reason for the adoption of the law and the objective to be achieved by the law is, after the proposalers have stated, the equivalence of the scope of the rights from the insurance of farmers and other insured persons under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act according to the amount of the contributions paid, irrespective of the administrative category of the debtor. In the view of the applicants, recognition and pensions are essentially dependent on the payment of contributions, and it is therefore inconsistent with the principle of equality that the essential equal situations are treated differently. In the case at hand, the calculation of pensions is treated differently by insurers who have paid equally high contributions but who are granted different amounts of insurance rights. Although we can attach this to the principled level, I must start by saying that the Social Democrats of the proposal conclude that the law is suitable for further consideration, we will not support it. Let us explain the reasons behind the decision. In the past, the legal arrangements for pension and disability insurance enabled farmers to be integrated into the scheme in question on different bases and to pay different amounts of contributions. The problem concerns farmers who have been included under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act of 1983 in a single system of compulsory pension and disability insurance. The legislator divided the farmers into two categories: the first category was the grouped farmers and the second category were the other farmers. The first had the option of being protected for a narrower or wider scope of rights, the difference between the two was the height of the insurance base. For other farmers, the level of the base they could choose was important only for the old-age pension, and regardless of the level of the base, they could only be secured for a narrower range of rights. Other farmers did not have the status of a united farmer and it was stipulated that due to the lower level of insurance they did not have a certain right, for example, they did not have the right to a pension benefit from the minimum pension base, to a pension and to a pension, to an early retirement allowance, to a partial pension, to a pension based on II. and III. categories of disability, rights to disability, allowance for assistance and service and an allowance for the recreation of pensioners. Other farmers therefore feel defrauded because they received fewer rights for the same contribution, stressing that the insured had the opportunity at the time and was able to decide for himself to join agricultural organisations and consequently also the method of insurance. In fact, the legislator encouraged the merged farmer with a greater level of rights, as it was only under the rules on the integration of farmers that the other members of the cooperative organisation were forced to combine personal work, agricultural and other land, labour and equipment and other funds; while the other farmer did not have to do so. The obligations of the Joint Farmers were so great that the legislator was also entitled from different levels of entitlements to pension and disability insurance schemes that the category of insurers separated from those who did the same activity, but were not prepared to accept those obligations. If such distinction were recognised as discrimination, such discrimination had in fact been abolished in 1992. In 1992, the new pension legislation introduced changes in this area in such a way that all insurers had the opportunity to choose their own extent of insurance, which was also appropriate in terms of the amount of contributions; however, the scheme in question was only applicable for the future. Indeed, there can be a difference in the amount of the pension today, but only in certain cases, which are few. This is the group of other farmers who have paid contributions at the border or a little over the border between the narrower and the wider range. In recognition of the grant of rights during the current period for the assessment of the scope of entitlements, the rules applicable at the time when the insurance period was completed shall apply. The status, as established during the period to which the supplementary pension period relates, is generally maintained for the recognition of rights, even if the pension is administered under later rules which no longer know the difference of status. Although a different way of taking account of the scope of rights can be established through the new law, it is only possible to move forward; it is not possible to do so in return, as proposed in the SDS. In view of all of this, we consider that the proposal to amend the law in the text before us is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u15	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, Mr Hanžek, on its behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u16	Thank you very much. In a pension system based on solidarity between people with different incomes, the amount of pensions and the extent of entitlements cannot depend solely on the contribution rate or contributions paid. This criterion, referred to in the explanatory memorandum, cannot be accepted as being generally applicable. Even now, the highest pension is limited up, while a minimum pension is set to ensure a decent life for the pensioners and the disabled. As the number of pensioners increases and, on the other hand, the proportion of pensioners with very low pensions increases, consideration will have to be given to reducing the maximum pension, the minimum increase. Above all, it will be necessary to increase and more fairly raise funds for the pension fund. A universal solution to problems such as the one we are talking about today can be addressed by maximising the equalisation of insurance rights. A few steps in this direction have already been taken. As of January 2014, it is no longer possible for voluntary inclusion in compulsory pension insurance for a narrower range of entitlements. It should be made clear that it was a pen, an unfair form of insurance, because it did not bring rights to a protective allowance, an allowance for foreign care and assistance, and even disability. If someone were to be a major part of their retirement age secured for a greater extent, they would be deprived of those rights, which in our view are an indispensable element of the basket of rights of each pensioner. The category of protection for a narrower range of rights has been eliminated since 2014 and this is the right way to avoid future confusion and unjustified differentiation. Residents expect compulsory insurance to provide a decent life for all at an old age or in the event of disability. Contributing rates must be adjusted to the situation and income of all insurers, not only employees on a regular basis. The unemployed were not protected for a narrower range of rights because they wanted to give up all rights, but because they had too little income. This leads to a particular problem. In the 1980s, there were two categories of farmers who were in different situations. The Joint Farmers are supposed to be associated with the Joint Organisations; this has given them certain obligations regarding the common use of land, money and labour resources. In return, they had the possibility of certain benefits in pension insurance which other farmers did not have in principle. In fact, three categories of rural pensioners have emerged. The first category was farmers who paid contributions from Class 1 to Class 3. These farmers all have the same height or better – equally low pensions, whether they were united or not. The second category is farmers who paid higher contributions, i.e. from 6th to 10th grade. Even in this category there is no difference between the combined and the other farmers. Everyone has the same high pension. However, there is a third category, where there is a difference in the amount of the pension between the combined and other farmers. The government says it's those insurance companies that were at the border between the wider and the smaller, i.e. in the 4th and 5th classes. Other farmers have a lower pension than the combined one because they are obviously set aside from the actual base; not from the minimum base applicable to normal old-age pensions. With regard to such cases, it appears that there is a case-law all the way to the Supreme and Constitutional Court. The courts dismissed the complaints of other farmers who had a weighted lower pension. They decided that, because of the different legal and factual situation, such distinction was permitted by the combined and other farmers. Maybe legally, but that's not a satisfactory answer. The state authority cannot say that someone is at the border between one and the other categories. For each insured person, it is necessary to know which category he belongs to and what his rights are. If the 5th Contributing Class provides one farmer with a certain amount of pension, it will also have to be given to another, such as classes 1 to 3 and 6 to 10. Since obviously the 8th Contributing Class also provides non-United Farmers with the same treatment as the combined ones, that is to say, as if someone had a wider scope of rights; therefore, at least what we expect the Government to clarify this simple question – which contributing class guarantees rights from a wider scale, whether it is 4, 5, or 6. I understand that some insurers may have changed the amount of contributions, but for each insurer, the authority had to uniquely determine where it belonged. In fact, it is not the work of Members to resolve administrative issues, but to provide political guidance and guidance. Our general orientation is that in these cases both categories of farmers should be treated in the same way. How someone was categorized between 1980 and 1993 is now irrelevant. No one can re-use the system or speculate, because the fact remains that they have paid equally high contributions; and that is enough. I expect that the government, as in the case of the seizure of the property of the recipients of social assistance, will argue that there is an unjustified poverty of the pension fund. She will probably play again to place one category of disadvantaged people against the other; but look, this is a pensioner's farm, for those of them who usually receive very low pensions. Former united farmers will be no worse off if other farmers align themselves with them. Moreover, in all these years such pensioners are probably not enough to significantly increase the expenditure of the pension fund. In the United Left, we will support the proposal unless the government clearly proves in the debate that the distinction between this narrow category of pensioners who have paid as high contributions as the others is justified; if it proves that they were in any way superior to the united farmers. We also expect the government to address the shortcomings that would have led to the failure to support the law in this form in the second reading. Indeed, in the Government's view, the law is impracticable because it does not provide sufficient clear guidance to the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance. But this can still be corrected in the process, so we will support the law in the United Left at first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u17	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, in its name Mag, has the word. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u18	Dear fellows and fellows, welcome and a beautiful good day! In our country, we still have first and second-class citizens in many areas. Various injustices have been brought from the previous socialist system, when some social groups, such as independent entrepreneurs, religious people or farmers, have been quite undesirable. Farmers were divided into two groups in the previous regime into so-called united farmers and other farmers. To put it a little bit simpler, those farmers who joined socialist organisations and those who didn't. Applicants with this novel, which is before us today, point out that these matters need to be settled. In the past, the legal arrangements for pension and disability insurance enabled the integration of farmers on different bases and at different levels of contributions. Farmers who were not included in socialist organisations were able to pay as high contributions as those in socialist organisations, but were granted only insurance for a narrower range of rights. Thus, despite the same amount of contributions paid, they are recognised for different levels of entitlements in pension and disability insurance. Christian Democrats agree with the motioners that such a distinction between those in the same situation is unacceptable and must be addressed without delay. Such an opinion is also the Agricultural Forestry Chamber, which in some ways today represents Slovenian farmers, who wrote that if insurers have paid the same contributions as others, they must be recognised the same extent of rights. It would also be worth noting that the Agricultural Forestry Chamber would have to recognise, by means of this amendment, the rights of insurance to a wider extent than those currently in force. In accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, this means no later than 31. 12. 1993 further; not until this possible novel, which I hope at least will be adopted this year. I must admit that we are surprised by the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which recognises that farmers have been divided into two unequal categories since 1984; however, the proposal does not support the law. This preserves the principle of first- and second-class farmers, which is not appropriate in a democratic and European country. According to our assessment, the country has a duty to create a level playing field for all citizens, so we support the proposed novel.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u19	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. The first is Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u20	President, thank you so much for your word. When I listened to the views of various political parties and the position of the largest political party. Zajc, a colleague, explained all the legislation, all the discrimination since 1972, as far as farmers are concerned. We know that the previous regime has despised farmers for their independence. We know that by 1950, we had a mandatory show to collect their crops, empty their jaws, and there was nothing anyone could do to help. Then they began to discriminate against one and the other farmers. Those who had already joined or listened to this socialist regime had greater rights than those of others who could not participate because of their scale were second-rate farmers. I think the government has also misled political parties in its position, explaining that various courts have already decided that it was the same as it was. We know that the Supreme Court also ruled without evidence, and then it fell to the Constitutional Court. That this case, cited by the Constitutional Court, is not comparable to this case. Why? The Constitutional Court has explained that the principle of equality cannot be understood as a general equality of all but as an equal treatment of the same factual conditions. The Constitutional Court adopted this decision when different groups were compared when other farmers compared themselves with architects, artists and I do not know who else. In this case, where the government has failed, it is a matter of dealing with the same situations. This is a case where in one agricultural holding only one of them could be insured as a united farmer, it has a wider scope of rights; the other — a spouse, a son or a descendant — does not, even though they paid the same amount of contributions. Inside the united farmer as a farm, not two farmers, and one another as a united farmer; and the other as not a united farmer who was another farmer. And that's how she seduced, I think, the parliamentary groups. Why did we come to this case? I was approached by a farmer with a case like this. Father was a united farmer, and the other farmer’s son and both of them paid the same amount of contributions, the fourth grade. Why 4th grade? Here you explained that there were ten classes and that the first three were only a narrower range of rights; 4 and 5 were already a wider range of rights. For the united farmers, it is said that for one farmer on the farm, for a wife no more, for a son no more, there was already another farmer, he had a narrower scope of rights. What, though, has brought a narrower range of rights, what is the difference? Why did most pay — because of the difficulty of paying these contributions at the time — only the 4th or 5th grade? Because the wider scope of the rights brought recognised invalidity and sick leave. And that led to all these farmers being misled. This is said to be true if we compare work or workers in production, the husband and wife work in the company on tape the same work; the husband has a wider scope of rights and the wife has a narrower scope of rights, has no right to disability and has no right to a hospital. If we compare the farm with the company – and this is a real comparison; not the farmer who was united in the cooperative, but the other farmer who was not producing for himself, for his own purposes, or, say, sold in some other way. And there's a mistake. I think that the government has misled political parties and has also applied the Constitutional Court's decision wrongly because this is a matter of dealing with the same factual situation. Husband and wife in the farm. The husband has a wider range of rights; the wife has no rights; but the father has no son. In this case, which encouraged us to change this law, I also have real cases of how husband and son, both of them, signed a contract with the cooperative. The son bought the tractor through the cooperative on the basis of what he was broadcasting; not the father, because he was old; the son. They paid the same, but now that his son retired, he paid the 4th grade for a wider scale, he was calculated a pension of EUR 198. And if a wider range of rights were recognised, 50 euros could be more. When we have a lot of pensions where they didn't pay anything in pension and disability insurance, it's nothing; it's pensions that are thousands of euros and more. Here, however, it is a charity that the case has already been proved successfully in court, as I said before, this insured person wanted to have rights from a wider scope of disability recognition rights on certain occasions. He practically burned himself on the farm. And when he went to the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, they told him – you are insured as another farmer and it does not belong to you. And he went to court. He filed in 1996, in 1998, the Court granted him a wide range of rights on the basis of contributions paid and granted him a disability. Judgment. When he had his pension calculated, the Institute of Pensions and Disability Insurance calculated his pension on the basis of most of the paid area, i.e. an average of 12 years. The pension shall be calculated on the basis of the majority of the entitlements granted. He had less than three years of this work under this law, where there was a narrower scope of rights, and these three years outweighed the fact that he has a majority of his rights, a narrower part of his rights in 12 years. And after that calculated pension after a narrower part of the rights, that is to say a lower pension, although the Labour and Social Court has already recognised disability according to the scope of the wider part of the rights, it has already been recognised. Now he had to go back to court to be granted a pension from a wider part of the rights. We have legal practice. He turned to me because he says, "I know I'll get it because once I got it in court because it was an injustice because I was a second-rate farmer, my father a first-class farmer, we both had the same responsibilities as cooperatives and obligations." Why would a husband and wife, both protected for a wider range of rights, be the lowest possible rate, 4th or 5th grade; now the husband will receive a higher pension than the wife. The proverb says that women support three corners of the house; now they will have a lower pension. Isn't that discrimination if we're looking at this part? You're the one who showed us here that it's a group of farmers, and you're an alien. This is said to be two different farms. No, this is a distinction within a single agricultural economy. That's the problem. And it can't stand like that. He said: I know it, I know it, I got it in court; why should all the others who are in this case seek their right in court. When a lady called me for her parents' sake when she listened to my question and the answer then, the minister said: Will you reach? Will this injustice be rectified? I have a case like this at home. I said to her: I don't believe because the government's position is negative; and if it is the government's position, there will also be most coalitions; and you will have to prove it in court. And I said to her, "If your mother is in good health, it's probably worth it to you, but otherwise it's not; because before you do, the costs that will be higher than the difference between these rights that you will achieve in court." It's a case law. You just don't want to hear it. If the previous regime denied farmers, we know what happened after World War II. Today, too, it has been beautifully told how discrimination has continued throughout this period since 1972-1983. Let's get this over with. Let's stop! Whether pensions are an economic category or a social category, or waiting to be paid for some charity that we will sometimes get. Why would people then pay for pension and disability insurance if someone could make a political decision later — this does not belong to you. I warn you, the government here has failed with its position. I believe all those of us who have been elected in the countryside, that we are thinking properly and that this discrimination must end. And think again about these cases. We have in Zagorje, say, in the hills of Zagorje, when they have a tow truck, not for skiing, but for haystacking. And you know how — with the shoulder basket, the man and the wife, one with the full basket up there, is dragged by the one going up into the valley. And now my wife's getting a lower pension because she's got a smaller basket, or what?Oh, my God! By this law. And you say -- no, that's right. It's not the same and it can't be! And if you refuse this law today, we will continue to take action. This 1983 law failed all those who paid for the 4th and 5th classes in order to be given the opportunity, the right to a disability and the hospital, because the 1st, 2nd and 3rd classes did not allow it. And they thought they'd get the same rights from a wider scope for pensions, a pension bill. That's not what happened. Neither the invalidity was recognized nor the hospital, but the farmers of the hospital did not take it, so the case did not escalate earlier. In this particular case, when a man wanted to get a disability, he was told — no, you have no right because you are another farmer, your father is a united farmer, and you are another farmer, you have no right. And he's reached justice in court, now he's looking for a pension right in court. Once again, it is not possible to compare the decision of the Constitutional Court because different groups are comparing each other. It is the treatment of the same actual conditions – father, son, husband, wife on the same farm. And think, colleagues and colleagues, that this is the case, not the other case that stimulated or forced farmers into cooperatives to sell all their crops there; and the other farmers that didn't do it because they didn't produce enough to sell. That wasn't right. For this case that we're saying is correct, it's not right at all. But it is a continuation of discrimination that has been the entire time of the former regime. Consider again, read it, and I can copy the decision if you want; but here is the injustice. Let's fix it while it's still time.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u21	The State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Mr Peter Pogačar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Maybe a brief explanation. In its opinion, the Government does not delude itself by referring to the reasons for the Constitutional Court decision. We wanted to show, for example, that the Constitutional Court had said that only that two individuals of two different groups had different rights did not necessarily violate the principle of equality if their starting position was different. I would like to stress the following, let us not forget, each farmer had his own choice at that time, his right to choose whether to become a united farmer or to be called another farmer. And when he chose that, the other farmer had the right to choose one of the 10 classes from which he would pay his contributions. This is something that does not belong to any other group, that you can choose for yourself how much she will pay for her contributions. At the time he chose to be another farmer, the law granted him insurance for a narrower scope of rights, which meant less. This status has brought less rights than the full range of rights insurance. Let us remember a few years ago when we lifted insurance for a narrower scope of rights, what pressures were there to keep it. We were just trying to prove that insurance must remain only for the wider scope of rights, so that all pensioners will have full rights one day. It is the right to choose and any consequences arising out of it. As for the particular case you are referring to, honourable Member, I cannot comment on this particular case at this time because I do not know it because I have listened only to your explanation, so I really do not know what the case is. But from your explanation, I assume it's a matter of taking into account the predominant period of insurance. Let's not forget anything else. In the end, for example, a farmer or any part of his pension age is secured for a narrower scope of rights and one part for a wider scope of rights, and the law applies the principle of the gravity of insurance. This means that if you have only been insured for a day in your career for a wider range of rights, you will be entitled to rights for a wider range of rights, regardless of the fact that you have been insured for a narrower range of rights for 19 years and 11 months. It's the principle of gravity. I did not understand exactly what was going on in this case from your explanation, so you will understand that it is difficult to comment on a specific case. However, I propose that a specific individual address the Ministry with a concrete case and we can comment. However, it is difficult to comment from your debate on what actually happened in the event that such a Supreme Court judgment was reached. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u23	Mr Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u24	Mr. Secretary of State, it's not true. The other farmer as a member of the same agricultural holding had no choice, since only one could be a united farmer, only one in the agricultural holding. If he wanted to have the same rights, he had to pay, as Mr. Hanžek had already said, the 8th grade; he paid the 4th. So you can have the same pension if you're another farmer, you're just gonna pay after eighth grade. If you're paying so much, you better be, 'cause you're gonna pay so much. From 4th to 7th grade, this as the second member of the agricultural holding has no choice. Because the wider scope of his rights brings him sick and invalidity. He paid the same as his father, and he wasn't granted a disability, and he did it in court. Now he won't go to the government because he's already turned to the court. I doubt the court will decide otherwise than in that case. However, in order not to repeat this injustice for all those who do not know it or who do not know it, they did not seek the right to a disability, and the Pension and Disability Insurance Office will calculate their pension on a narrower scale, even though they paid a wider part of the rights, they will only know when they retire. When the husband and wife retire, they will have a different amount of pension because they come from the same farm and paid the same amount. But that's what I understand when you said earlier that the majority of the rights are taken into account for the calculation of the pension. Yes, because this is wrong, because despite the fact that there were only less than three years in the insurance company, this brings the advantage that the majority of the lower part of the rights and also the lower part of the pension.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u25	The State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Mr Peter Pogačar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u26	Your Honor! I accept your explanation, but you say that the other member of the farm had no right to choose. Your proposal for a law speaks of all those who were other farmers; not only this particular case, which was another member of the household. Your marriage extends this right to all those who had the status of another farmer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u27	Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor. Prepare Mr Joseph Horvat and Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u28	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Dear Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, once again a good day on my behalf! Today we are talking about this pension and disability law, where there is no such big change. But it's two key things. This is that some in the Republic of Slovenia retain these rights and that injustice in this area is abolished. When I listened to the views of fellow Members and fellow Members of the parliamentary groups earlier, I myself, the distinguished secretary, felt whether you did not get enough depth into this proposal of the law or whether the esteemed colleague and colleagues were seriously being misled. As a Member of State, I walk in Slovenia or I am in my constituency, people often bring the things they are tormenting today, especially many times the problems that are from the past. When we all live together in the Republic of Slovenia, which is the same for me everywhere, and from the border in Hungary to the Italian border from Austria to the border in Croatia, there is certainly a rich history of all. Surely everyone in this land has the credit for being as beautiful and orderly as this land is. But most of the time, when we touch people with problems, we come up with questions or answers that it's political, that it's like that, and that it's a burden on the state or some other budget. As a member of the National Assembly myself, I cannot agree with this when, on the other hand, the government – not only this one, but also the previous one – is burdening the economy, is burdening the employees. When we talk about helping Greece, people fight a little questions. We ask the economy a few times, or we listen to it, whether the value added tax goes up to the burden of the economy or not. But the government suggests it, and the coalition accepts it most of the time or always accepts it. But when it comes to such small things, to our citizens, to those who have experienced this injustice, or to those who wish to exercise this right, it is a problem. Once again, in the National Assembly, we begin to say that it is pleasing, that it is political, that it is possible to go to the account of any of the political parties. I'm sure I can't agree with that on my own. The law we're talking about today is minimal. This is a minimum, this could be one of our citizens or citizens for 50 or 100 euros. For people who have worked fairly in such or different fields for decades. Above all, we are talking about agriculture today. Every farm in the Republic of Slovenia is important. Every farm in this beautiful country gives a charm to the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, not all Ljubljana, we like to talk about Ljubljana the most. And if the countryside were grown today, surely Ljubljana would not have visited so many foreigners and could not treat this beautiful place, which I am proud of. Therefore, honourable Members and Members, the distinguished Secretary of State, who is not currently in the Chamber, I think that you should reconsider this. I also call on all parliamentary groups to discuss this minimum, which we can give to our citizens and citizens, to get their rights and not to be wronged. Surely this signal, which has been coming for a long time, would not have found a common language on any segment. Let us be aware that every part of Slovenia is the Republic of Slovenia and every citizen and citizen is part of this Slovenia. That is why I sincerely want this bill to be supported. If the Secretary of State or the Ministry still has doubts about this, I call for this important area to be re-examined and, in particular, informed of the parties in the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u29	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Prepare Mr Tomaž Lisec and Mrs Marinka Levičar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The rural population is at risk, although it has contributed greatly to the existence of farms, food production and preservation of cultural landscapes in our country of Slovenia, which is of great importance to our country and also to its inhabitants. As of 1 January 2009, the farmer's pension under the Age Insurance Act of 227.6 euros. Where a person receives an old-age pension of 187.43 euros, it means that such a person has been insured only for a narrower scope of rights and therefore does not have any other pension entitlement. The pension system in the Republic of Slovenia is based on solidarity, solidarity with everyone. And the pension system, the changes in the pension system, the improvement of the pension system, the National Assembly, which is an eminent political institution. If there was enough political will and there was more confidence, we could have better solutions in our country. We would also accept today's proposed solution from colleagues and colleagues of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Nothing but more trust and more political will. Anyone can be a Nobel laureate when it comes to political brats and excuses as to how something cannot be done. No way, it's not possible. Do we have privileged pensions in our country? Yes, we do. Who set them up and decided on them — politics or profession? My answer is politics. Politics has decided, and so is – and it does. She also took responsibility for this. But for farm animals, which is extremely important for every country, we never really have enough political power here. Probably not because we don't have a strong political peasant union. Why am I stressing political? As we today have certain trade unions run by eminent politicians in Slovenia, parliamentarians run them. In round – The State Council is part of the Slovenian parliamentary system. I'm not going to go through with this right now. And these unions run by politicians are very strong, politically strong, do not leave or pressure the National Assembly to accept certain things. And since this is a political debate, I would expect here today to be the first post in the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities; that is, the Minister. The Secretary of State, whom I highly appreciate, Mr Peter Pogačar is, above all, an expert, an excellent expert in the pension system, i.e. an expert. It is true that the Secretary of State is the Deputy Minister and is therefore also a political function. But I take him primarily as an expert in this field. The former system in the Socialist Republic of Slovenia and the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia had double lists of people. That's probably what we all agree with. That's why we wanted to go over the plebiscite and we went into a new, different system. There was also a double list of farmers in the previous system. We have heard this a number of times today, one of them being united farmers and then the rest of the farmers. And these joints had additional, different privileges. My colleague, the President of the Agriculture Committee, Mrs Iva Dimic, has repeatedly said that she remembers from her youth. Home was the farm, that it had a different medical certificate and that it was also treated differently. But let's leave. Perhaps just one short trip in the past and God forbid it to happen again, although some have great nostalgic appetites. When I was a child, my father bought a lawnmower from an Italian producer, BCS, which we all know. Two hours after the lawnmower came to the yard, a people's militia came and took Dad away. He had to explain where he got the foreign currency. For he was a farmer; he was a farmer. Where did he get the import fees to buy this lawnmower? It took a while to prove that his brother from Canada, my uncle, paid for this lawnmower. These were the beginnings of the agrotechnical revolution in Prekmur, as I call it, by the arrival of these lawn mowers. So he was on another list of farmers, not that better list. And I do not want to go into history now; I want us to take solutions for the present and for the future, for the future of Slovenian farmers. Here, in this national assembly, I want us to adopt an environment that will be kind enough to be seen as friendly by young farmers. I am glad that in my congregation, it happened last week, we got in the countryside, in Prekmurje, the first doctor of science at the farm. The case was that it was their farm that received a special award for the best business farm in Slovenia. So today, what was once valid is not valid — if you do not learn, but you will be a farmer. Today it's the other way around. At a farm with land processing or, rather, with food production, we have set very high standards in Europe, thank God; and I wish you would remain so, perhaps even higher. That's why today you have to have, yes, and in the future you have to have doctors of science. It may seem futuristic, but that's how I understand. We discussed a lot in this National Assembly how to make their work easier for farmers, i.e. production, food production; however, there was not too much political will, colleagues and colleagues. We recall only one meeting of the Committee on Agriculture proposed by the New Slovenia Group when we wanted to protect agricultural production in the north of Gorička, in the area of the fishing area with a special purpose, Kompas Peskovci. It didn't work out. Okay. The government, or Minister of Agriculture, proposed some measures that were not acceptable to farmers; they said they would not be taken. But politics did not believe farmers, it went as a bulldozer with its actions, and it said that it would and that we would once in September see whether these measures were taken, as they are said, or not. Well, we'll see. Surely a meeting of the Committee on Agriculture will be necessary again and we will draw a line and inventory and see whether there is still a need to destroy some farmers up to 90% of the crops. Up to 90%, then you grow when the game destroys 90% of your crops. It's not working. It's just not working. I would also like to talk more about the still incomplete Strategy for the Development of Slovenian, I stress the Slovenian agriculture written by Dr Jože Osterc in the early 1990s. He's based on a family farm. A lot of things are still unrealised and up to date, even though we are part of the European Union today and we have a common European agricultural policy, which also sets the family farm as one of the foundations of farming. We talk a lot and work hard, but unfortunately only verbally and rhetorically, about food self-sustainment in Slovenia. How are we doing here? It doesn't show much in terms of the data we get from the official institutes. We're not doing very well. We have to do something. We have to make a difference. If we have a diagnosis, if we see that the matter is not going in the right direction, then the policy must nevertheless respond to it and change something and trust more. The bureaucratic obstacles faced by agricultural producers today are catastrophic. It is true that some of them have been introduced by the European Union, the common agricultural policy, and that the Commissioner himself, responsible for the common agricultural policy, wants to abolish them. But you know, it takes years and years. Do you know that today, if you are a farmer and produce pumpkins, you get pumpkin seeds, you take pumpkin seeds to an oil factory that makes you out of a pumpkin seed oil, you pay a service; despite having a registered complementary activity, you cannot sell pumpkin oil on the market, because the inspection takes you deep and drives you; 400 euros will pay for the fines and you will have to clean those bottles and go home. You need to buy oil more – oil, not just a service, you need to buy oil in an oil factory – and only then can you sell this oil further. Mom like this, you'd say young. Farmers tell me because we walk around the field a lot and live in such an environment, and as a politician they read, appeal to me and say to me, "Let us, the politicians, go to the field and work, do not always impose new bureaucratic demands on us." Look, colleagues and colleagues, we really should not think about this once, because we know this, we have a diagnosis, we know what the situation is on the ground; but we should actually approach — and this as soon as possible — systemic solutions. I would not like to mention the names of individual farmers engaged in food production, tourism activity, registered complementary activity and so on; but the farmer in the farm economy spends between two and three hours a day to edit papers, but is still behind. And if he's caught behind by an inspection, it's worse for him. You know I'm telling the truth. A farmer from an organic farm in the Ljubljana Bar takes this work two days a week. And so bureaucracy, unproductive bureaucracy consumes their time. Some farmer is most disturbed by the fact that he has to pay his own bills. He is most disturbed by the fact that, as the holder of the farm, everything that came home sells to himself as the carrier of the complementary activities of tourism, not to the farm. As entry and exit VAT end up being calculated, it makes no sense to sell it to yourself. He says this – if he registered the S.P., he wouldn't waste time issuing bills for all domestic crops to himself; but that's not possible because I can't run a holiday farm through espionage when only a farm can register it as an additional activity. It goes on – our farm is a taxpayer and cannot be avoided by these papers. These are stories from a real, not an imaginary life. Again, the example of a farm where for two years they have not cooked their own fruit from their own orchard, because the crop is bad, but they have to report their excise data every month until 20.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u31	Comrade Horvath, return to the subject, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u32	This is actually a longer introduction to the debate ahead of me. In the whole context, we need to understand, in a broader context, what we need to understand is the current debate, because it is different for us to simply say who the farmers are and how many they are. They're not interesting voters, because we're talking about political decisions here, and they're not ours. The people's party went out anyway, the farmers did not help them, because somehow it was considered that the Slovenian People's Party here is a messenger of farmers. We must all be, colleagues and colleagues, left and right, all of us must be messengers of this farming population. And in this context, I appeal again primarily to those who represent the majority of this House; but we can also agree, as I have heard yesterday, on a project coalition and implement this project. The project is on the table, very simple, a few lines, and the effect is great. He won't know much at the pension register. It's more about moral support. Or we'll have to go to the field and ask farmers what kind of environment they live in, whether they're satisfied and so on. It was also a major mistake, especially in rural life, when Borut Pahor’s government abolished so-called state pensions. It is true that pensions were not in the right sense, since it took so long to retire, so many years to pay contributions. He was kind of a social fixer. This is actually a lot of momentum on the edge of survival. That's how people talk to me in my office. We have discussed this many times, and once again there is no political will to do anything to listen to them. I have a lot to tell you, but I'm afraid someone will understand that I don't understand the life of a farming population, and I have to say that I understand it very much. And I think that today's debate, or this bill that we are considering, is not so financial, but more moral support for a farmer's life. Therefore, as my colleague and colleague in the New Slovenia Group, I will support this solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u33	Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor. Prepare Mrs Marinka Levičar and Mr Jan Škoberne.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u34	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Representative of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! Every time we talk about the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, there's an interesting debate. I am following these debates about this law, whether it is the reforms of this law or the minimalist amendments, such as today's, for the last ten years in this national assembly, and it is always a fiery debate. I think it is also right, because for us, a small younger generation, the provisions of this law will soon come into force, not only in the first place, but also in the first place. And I hope once, to exploit these rights. I don't have the status of a farmer myself, so I don't have any problem talking on my conscience. I think that one of the Members read the objectives and principles of the law, two sentences, should be for this law; without sharing by party or political affiliation. The aim of the law is to achieve an equalization of the rights of farmers and other insured persons according to the amount of the contribution paid. Equal rights, equality, solidarity in the field of farmers. I would expect today, or if it is not already here, that, at least in the opinion of the Government, Minister Židan would be more actively involved, who is, in his words, a great advocate of farmers; but I have been warning that, when the action takes place, this fight for farmers will either be carried out through Savi or completely turned around. Above all, I would expect his support for this law because it is not really about some systemic reform, but, as we have already mentioned, probably for some small number of people who were wronged by some previous law between 1984 and 1992 because of the law. And many times when I meet farmers — where I live is such a majority population — they say that we have first-class citizens and second-class ones. Most of those average, good, fair farmers belong if they read the provisions of the legislation and the sub-laws that they feel that they are already second-rate. And this former legislation in this area has made two more categories within these second-class farmers; first-class farmers and, as stated in the law, other farmers. Some protected for a wider scope of rights and some for a narrower scope of rights. And only one within the family could be secured as a cooperative farmer for full or wider rights; and if the husband was a carrier, the wife was already discriminated against. Even if the father was 70 years old and the son was 40 and the father was the owner of the farm; although the son was likely to have done the main work on the farm, he was discriminated against because only one within the family could have a wider or full scale. That is why I really expected Members, because it is a small change, a small number of people, when a lot of mouthfuls of words are solidarity and equality, that we will all be able to support this law. It is a shame, I am very sad that Mr Židan has no spirit or hearing from him about this farmer; although I know that he belongs to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, but as a fighter for farmers in the National Assembly as well as a multiple minister. I expected him to say, but let's do it, regardless of the fact that the drafter of this law is the SDS Parliamentary Group, i.e. the opposition, and let's do one hook, correct certain discriminatory injustices from the past and make the law according to the measure of these people who have been violated by some rights. It saddens me very much when Alliance colleague Alenka Bratušek said that they had a problem with their support not to support him; the problem was that the injustices of the previous regime were being corrected. I think I wrote it right, I'm sorry, there's no magnetogram yet, but she said they have a problem with supporting this law because it's about correcting the injustices of the previous regime. They agree that this is about redressing the injustices, but because it's about redressing the injustices of the previous regime, we'll be in Alliance Alenka Bratusek against. Otherwise, I will not talk about the correction of injustices from the previous or from this regime or even from this year, because then we could go back to some debate about the left, right, upper, lower, ours and yours; but the injustice was done to a small group. My colleague Zvona Lah had a specific case, but even if he is one, it is worth taking care of. Why should we always set matters straight when it comes to the widest crowd? If we feel that injustice has been done to someone and if we as a legislator agree, we can also correct it through the correction of the law. Now there are some issues concerning the government's opinion, which is quite extensive, but the government itself recognises; I think it writes on the fourth page: "Only in certain cases, when other farms have chosen insurance bases that were for cooperative farmers on the border or slightly above the border between the narrower and wider scale could there be differences in the amount of the pension, which cannot be evaluated without individual accounts." So you could come. Why don't we fix it? But this is not the right when people get upset sometimes when we change some law in the National Assembly and change some censorship in some area. Someone says – look, for one euro, I'm under censorship and it's not fair. And if we were to lower this censorship once again for one euro, there would be again someone who would say, "Here I am, I too am under this censorship for just one euro and so on." In short, the Ministry simply writes that there could be differences in the amount that cannot be evaluated without individual calculations. I would like to remind you of the transitional and final decision of our proposal for a law, where we have written down: The recognition of rights from wider coverage insurance, the rights set out in Article 1 of this Act shall be decided by the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance in a procedure initiated on an official basis or at the request of the insurer. The solution is in marriage. And despite the fact that the ministry then writes, this is already a classic answer that the proposal of the law in question does not regulate fully and sufficiently – well, at least the word has been systematically omitted – we can, because in the first reading, in the second and third readings we can easily correct it. I believe that the law may be improved by nomotechnic means, but if we follow the same content, we should not really have problems supporting this law. In the end, allow for more financial implications. The government writes: "With regard to the financial consequences of the law itself, however, the applicant states that the funds are not provided from the budget, which is not entirely true, as pension funds are not sufficient to cover the expenses of this cash register." We already know this through, we are talking about a small segment of people here, but we have cases - pensioners, fighters, culturers, five years of working age, ex-members for example; one term or I think there were even two mandates at the time, and they were able to retire. We have fighters who were born in 91 and are not receiving because of their secured needs, they receive a pension. We have culturers who have created as part of the nation's prosperity. So on the thumb, someone could get a pension, but someone could not, because officials at the Ministry could decide on such and different criteria, and I'm not going to talk about political cases so that someone could get a cultural pension, but someone didn't. The last time we read about the notorious player's deplorable case, how he easily got his pension, not the lowest one that farms get, about 200 or 284 euros in pension. No, high. I believe the gentleman was good, but he's not a good farmer?Oh, my God! For my understanding, the ones I know will be left behind by those who probably use a subsidy only to slightly improve their standard of living on other segments; but I believe that farmers still apply in our country for the good inhabitants of our country. The government writes: "When the financial sustainability of the pension fund is threatened, the provision of pension funds from the budget, the reduction of rights, and so on, does not support the law." Former Minister Vizjak said: "Let the pension register go exclusively to what is paid for by work. The fighters fought. It's probably work. While many feel that they are not, they are easily beneficiaries of the STIZ. However, farmers who were wronged between 1984 and 1992, according to the majority opinion of representatives of coalition parties and one party from the opposition, are not eligible. And if these two, five, ten, fifty cases of farmers will ultimately jeopardize the financial sustainability of the pension fund, then we have a problem. Members of Desus and the SD must then ask themselves in particular whether they have done everything in their past mandates to ensure that the PPIZ, as it is now in force, is strong and stable enough to provide our pensioners with a serious and decent pension. I could be populism today, because some of us, or some of us, have publicly advocated how everyone should get a thousand euros in pensions. To a farmer, these same Members will today withdraw the support of a law which, under their official duty or on their proposal, could be lifted for the purpose of correcting the wrongs and not for a decision over the thumb. No, these same Members will be against and, in most cases, I am talking about one parliamentary group, it has been in the government since 2002 or ever, but always the pension reform fits them according to their functioning, not the work of all other citizens. In short, to conclude, I think that the government's opinion, where it has itself determined that there may have been rights, that between the second and third readings we can nominally correct this law if there is a political will to resolve those small problems in our country. If you'll excuse me, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u35	Mrs. Marinka Levicar has the floor. Procedurally, Mr. Uroš Prikl, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. President, I ask you politely to warn debaters who do not stick to the topic or who do not discuss the subject we are discussing; to warn them to focus on this topic, as you warned your colleague Horvath, who went a little wider in his introduction. But I think we're talking here about different categories, about fighters, I don't know who, about thousands of euros in pensions, and how SD and Desus have to stand up for their electorate, that this is derated at this point that we're talking about or that's on the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u37	I will try to make sure that the debate is as focused as possible. However, we have a general debate and the general debate allows – please do not interfere with my word – the general debate allows a relatively broad view of the matter, and the context can also be presented. I really warned my colleague Horvath that he was making cases like this that somehow had nothing to do with it. But the fact is, you all come in line in this debate and you can do it that way. It doesn't make any sense to warn you in the middle. You have a chance to answer that question, and I wouldn't be the one to judge it terribly unless it was a matter that would go out. One day he didn't, and a colleague of Horvath did, I must admit, he immediately recovered and started talking about things around again. I'll make sure we talk about the darkness. Now Mrs Marinka Levičar has the floor to prepare for Mr Jan Škoberna and Andrej Cuz.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u38	Thank you, Mr President, for your word and a nice greeting to all! As long as I hold the subject of today's debate, this is the consideration of the proposal to amend the pension law. I will certainly not interfere with agricultural policy, such as my predecessors, and even urge the Minister of the Jews to be present at today's meeting, as if they are discussing really agricultural policy. However, we are discussing the pension law, which would have an impact on the different arrangements for farmers' insurance. At first, I would like to point out that no injustice has happened to farmers. Speakers from the SDS and the NSI have consistently stressed that injustice has occurred to farmers. No guilt ever happened to them. Farmers had the opportunity to decide for themselves whether to be insured as joint farmers or to remain as other farmers; this category was allowed by the legislator – other farmers. We need to be aware [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Lah, you used to be angry that we were laughing, and now you're jumping into my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u39	Peace in the hall, please. Mrs. Marinka Levičar, please proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u40	Yeah, it bothers me if this is how I get my word out. [[advertising from the hall]] The United Farmers, those who decided to have the status of a united farmer, therefore also had more obligations. As a result of their multiple obligations to agricultural cooperatives, until certain crops were granted, until the funds were pooled, land and so on, they were given this benefit to be insured for a wider scope of rights. We also need to know what a wider and narrower range of rights means, and we have mixed this up in the debates. Those insured for a narrower range of rights do not have the right to an allowance for aid and service, to an annual supplement, we now call this an allowance for recreation, they do not have the right to short-term disability benefits, that is, insurance, if something happens, sick as you said. The farmer had no chance of going to the hospital if he decided to be insured as others, he had no disability; neither did he now. However, it is also important that insurance provides for a wider range of rights, i.e. the rate of pension from the lowest pension base. You know, in the pension system, we have two guardians, that's the rate of pension from the highest pension base and the rate of pension from the lowest pension base. These rights are rights that point to solidarity in the SPIZ. Above all, the right option has already been taken several times in the past to introduce a social cap. This non-introduction of a social allowance means that those who pay contributions from salaries and other benefits higher than the maximum pension base are not considered to be in the pension period or at the pension rate are not considered as a retirement benefit because the pension is based on the highest pension base. Therefore, on the basis of this solidarity, those who receive lower incomes, which result in a lower pension base, such as the lowest pension base, may receive a pension benefit from the lowest pension base; that is to say, more than they have paid for it. But it's solidarity that's guaranteed in the pension system, and I think it's just right that it stays that way. I would also like to emphasise the importance of insurance in the pension system. We have discussed this too. The pension shall be measured according to the gravity of the insurance, i.e. after the gravity of that working period, which is for a narrower or wider scope of the rights. And if you have a large amount of insurance for a wider range of rights, then you should pay your pension. Since you've talked a lot about discrimination against farmers, I'm sure there was no discrimination against farmers. I had this opportunity to sit next to the office where I worked for many years. And farmers came to pay a lot of money to get the working time for farmers, because it was very convenient. The price was very favourable, so each day they were such types of cashiers that they could hardly handle it. And it was possible for all members of farming families to complete the work period, the condition was that they did not have any other insurance on any other basis at the time. I know that, for example, students from farming families bought working hours for agricultural activities, i.e. during studies. Four years, five years of study, they were able to buy a retirement period for agricultural activities to help farmers. It is not just from this point of view about any discrimination against farmers. Colleagues also talked about clarifying once, however, whether the pension is a social or economic category. That question has been on the table for a long time. I think maybe even 40 years ago, I was looking at some notes from 40 years ago, and they couldn't get together at the time what kind of pension is. They have come to the conclusion that the pension is an economic and social category. I would be very happy if you could focus my debate on what kind of pension is. I agree and think that the pension is an economic category, i.e. a category which must be based on the contributions paid. Therefore, it is not a social category unless it is based on the contributions paid. But most pensions are based on paid contributions, so pensions are an economic category. I would be very happy if once the National Assembly or I, as legislator, accepted the view that the pension was an economic category. In his discussion, Mr Horvat also mentioned the abolition of the state pension, if this move had affected the women's farmers or farmers again, and it also related to discriminatory attitudes towards farmers. You know why the state pension was cancelled. Because it was a pure social category on the one hand, and on the other hand it was not because all citizens with no income could receive a state pension only if they were 65 years old. And they found that such a state pension was also granted to various husbands of gentlemen who had very high pensions, and they only received this state pension because they were 60 years old and did not have their pensions. For this reason, I think it was right that this state pension had been abolished and that those who are entitled could receive a social social benefit from this area. I would also like to stress the costs of this decision. You say that the cost of this decision will not be, or will be, a minimum for the budget; in this sense, that these pensions will not increase much, that they will increase very little if they do. However, it should be borne in mind that the number of these beneficiaries is not known at all. PPIZ should verify all the files and only on this basis could it determine how many of these beneficiaries there are. This would take a lot of work for the PIZ and also a lot of costs. You need to know that the costs of the PIC work are also paid from the state budget, in a common bag. We also have to count on that, including the number of employees. You know that the number of employees in PIZ is very limited, as is the case in other public institutions, and that they are already barely able to do their job and that they are already too far behind in regular work. This would be some extraordinary work, which would again greatly increase the work of the PIZ, and we must also take this into account. In particular, let us take into account that this proposal for amending the law is really unnecessary and that is why I will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Fox, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u42	Thank you, Vice President. Finally, the honourable Member said that the law should not be appropriate because it did not have properly assessed financial implications. If anything was wrong with the law, including with regard to the assessment of the financial consequences, the President of the National Assembly would not have put the law in the procedure. And we have written evidence when it is in one of the previous laws, I think that the United Left Group has tabled one law when the entire coalition has agreed that the law is not appropriate, we have written confirmation by the President of the National Assembly that, despite the fact that in individual cases, it is really difficult to assess the financial consequences, the law is suitable for putting into the National Assembly a legislative procedure and also for dealing with and possibly also for adoption. Gradually, Madam Vice-President, I propose that when anyone speaks, because the law has no precise financial implications to warn him that if the law was not in place, it would not be the first or general treatment today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Madam colleague, if pensions are an economic category, then we do not require anything else to change only that those who have been paying a certain amount of contributions at the time have been paid to account for as much of the pension as was paid; that all those who have paid are equal. If it's an economic category, they've already paid in the pension register, admit it. Now all we have to do is admit what they've been paying; not less what's happening under this law now and now. We demand that the injustice that happens here be rectified. And once again, it is not a distinction between a united farmer and a farm itself, but another farmer as another farm; it is a distinction within one farm, an agricultural holding where one insured person can have more rights than a united farmer; his spouse or child has no right and had no choice. Even though he was paying, he's not admitting to his pension now. And if it's an economic category, let's take that into account. But if it happens to be a social category, then it's a shame because people are paying, because everyone's getting the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Škoberne has the floor to prepare Mr Andrej Chuš. Mr. Scoberne, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u46	I sincerely apologize, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Desiring that this debate would take place as properly as possible and that we could respond to the dilemmas ahead of us, we have tried to properly quote the law that I have now received. Today we are discussing non-existent injustice. It doesn't exist because we're not talking about two groups of people who would be in an unequal position. We are talking about two different groups that have been in different situations on the basis of their own decision, which was conditional on the assessment of whether I want to be included among the united farmers, or whether I will be in the category of other farmers. The first decision means that as a united farmer, I contribute to the community personal work, land, working machinery, equipment, money, broadcasting; in the second case, this means that there is no such obligation. Based on the policy of the then system and the priority of agricultural policy, it follows that the country at that time stimulated the decision of as many farmers as possible to voluntarily join the system of united farmers, which is also the result of some incentives. The decision for one or the other system was entirely voluntary and dependent on the assessment of an agricultural economy, thus making it as appropriate and easier to achieve their interests. This is also supported by a decision of the Constitutional Court, which states that the principle of equality means equality in the treatment of equivalent factual situations; not, as in this case, different situations. It is possible to agree with the proposer in a variety of ways if the proposal of the law were followed and if the things mentioned were to be followed. The law before us in Articles 10 and 11 of the year in question states that carriers and family members are insured in the case of united farmers and in the case of other farmers on the basis of a voluntary decision. Once again, on the basis of a voluntary decision. This means that I could decide on the basis of my own assessment whether I would contribute to the system of work, with machines, with land, with financial and other resources; or whether I would be completely autonomous, which was then not the priority of the country and the community, to carry out my agri-economic activity. In the case of the first title, I also have some other rights. Today we are talking about a law that, of course, if there was also injustice, could have been corrected long ago. Among other things, you have been here, to commend your President, but the only Prime Minister has so far endured the entire mandate. And if this is such an eccentric injustice that you, on behalf of your constituents, at least say so, you have to defend it this time, you could fix it then; but you didn't. The government says the law is impracticable. Even if the purpose is good, the law is impossible. It can happen to us that, in the case of this law, we will do the same as in the case of the Transitional Sports Insurance Act, we will adopt an unexecutable law for good purposes, which will only mean that any rights under this Title to which people are entitled and in accordance with the priorities of this country will not be exercised. And that, which is why I apologize to you once again, Madam Vice-President, has listened; the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, Article 10: "The farmers and members of the holdings engaged in agricultural activities in Slovenia as their sole or principal profession and have the property of a united farmer under the rules on the association of farmers, hereinafter the united farmers." Article 11 also speaks for other farmers. If I, as a carrier, have decided on this activity, the right to this status shall also apply to members of this economy. However, the free will of the decision clearly shows that there has been no injustice in this case. I understand that I can also operate on individual cases in which injustice could occur, but we cannot discuss it because I do not have it in the material because I do not have it in the explanatory statement because you did not reproduce it, as you yourself have proposed. I'd be very happy to discuss this, but we can't because we don't know the matter. However, consideration should then be given to how the law should be prepared for such injustices to be rectified. But this proposal doesn't solve what you're talking about. This proposal extends the rights to those who have voluntarily decided not to participate in some process and will not contribute; they would now have the same substantive and other rights from this title. That's not working. The decision has been voluntary and based on this decision we are talking about the rights arising from this. One more apology and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u47	Thank you. Mr Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u48	Young fellow, your debate was over. It's hard to decide voluntarily to be a son to someone. You can decide voluntarily whether you're going to be a husband or a wife and not a son. And there was no voluntary decision in this case. I told you before, the decision was that the farm decided whether to go to the "joint farmer" one and not the other. Within these farms, the "United Farmer" was protected by three; the first was for a wider scope of rights than the united farmer and the second was no longer. Although they paid the same contributions as the first one, their son or wife had a narrower scope of entitlement. There's no choice. There's no choice here. And these injustices need to be rectified because those others have not made up their minds, believe me, they haven't paid for the 4th, 5th grade or I don't know who else. However, he decided to go as a united farmer for selling and purchasing rematerial through the agricultural cooperative. The pooling of work, resources, and land was in Russia; the land was taken from us only after the war! No one's been bringing the land together. I don't know this case. And that's all we want to solve. Other farmers such as individual farms, which were so small that they had nothing to sell through the cooperative, did not therefore decide to be a united farmer. The larger farms, where they decided, could have been employed by two, three for full-time jobs, because they were larger farms and were protected; they had no choice — not son, not wife, or husband, if the wife was a united farmer. However, our view is that it is also appropriate for all who have paid the contributions to do so to calculate the pension. But those other farmers, like you, who didn't decide to be united farmers, are very few or not at all, because no one was stupid enough to pay for a lower level of rights. The first would be able to say at the PIC that only one would have a wider scope of rights and the other would not; no matter how much they pay, unless they pay the eighth grade or more. That's the difference. But you've been through your own debate. Of course, in those years when this was adopted, you were very young.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u49	Thank you. Mr. Andrey Chus has the floor. Get Mr. Benedict Kopmeyer ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u50	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President; colleagues and colleagues! I must say that I am very pleased that the SDS Group, with its proposer, has tabled this law. I remember two years ago when I opened my first office in the congregation of Markovci, I immediately received a large number of retired farmers and farmers on my first official hour. I was disgusted myself, and I just couldn't believe that this was even possible in our country. But when I look at what they're like on the other side of the pension, I thought to myself, but this country isn't solidarity, and it's not justice. What was the attitude towards agriculture in the past or in the former common country, we all know. We can say that those of the hottest castaways, my apologies, supporters and supporters of the regime, who were closest to them, considered farmers to be class enemies. And even today, the debate reminds us or reminds me of My Dad, a socialist ball, when he was the main player against the end of the film at the hearing with the party secretary and the main player told him he was a hook. And the party secretary said to him, "You know what we do with our fists? We're closing them down." I believe a certain part of the coalition members who say they are trying to make pensions better or the pensioners' standard better; but actions show exactly the opposite. How can I trust a politician or a politician who said that the minimum pension would be 1,000 euros; we see that pensions, the real value of pensions, does not go down. Some members of the coalition also today act as lawyers of a party that we all know about or the whole world knows is guilty. I could be populism myself, and I would list again many of the cases that are in our country, but colleague Lach showed the papers. This is a problem, since 1972, legislation in this area has been weak and we as legislator have an obligation to correct it. That is why the law is also put into first reading, because I am convinced that Slovenian policy is capable of coming together, at least on these most important issues of the development of society. I believe that the area of Slovenian agriculture and employees in this area is still an important and priority area. Unfortunately, there is a tradition that left-wing governments, selected mainly from urban centres and Ljubljana, have a negative attitude towards rural areas. We can follow up on some of the measures they take to rural areas everywhere and give a small number of cities; they give much more. And it seems incredible to me that we need to talk in 2015, where medical attention will be necessary. I'm sorry to point that out, but it's the last case. My colleague Lah told us everything with the paperwork, but if we don't accept this law here, we'll tell the victims – go to court. I ask where people who have a pension of 200 euros have the money to pay the costs. And today I was appalled when I looked online when I was preparing for the debate, the height of my pensions. Farmers' pensions amount to 200, 240 euros; privileged or so-called Fighter Pensions are the highest, even a thousand 800 euros; and these, which are not based on anything, are received by people who had nothing in the fight. There are 15,000 of these pensions. I remember following the policy when the former Minister Vizjak, who I believe was successful in this area, was very sorry that they, I will refrain from commenting, threw away the government, but the pension register must be cleaned. Not only because of the Mir Cerar Party principles, so transparency and so on, but also because young people will know when they work, where they pay their contributions and where they go. Today, a pension bag is a bottomless bag, when it is not known, a little money flows here and there, and at the end of the year, we see about how much we have to give or we owe. When I look at our pension or our pension status, we are far from a social and just state. Also ask my peers and young people how they feel about the pension fund and when they will receive their pension. 90% of young people are convinced that pensions will never be seen. Therefore, they are not motivated to pay their contributions. As a result, other forms of work, including black work, are unfortunately growing. This is a call for Slovenian policy to do much more in the area of agriculture and agricultural pensions. I do not defend this because I also have relatives in my family who deal with agriculture; but because I advocate righteousness, solidarity. When we adopt such solutions or in the direction proposed and presented by our colleague Lah, we will be able to say that we have some justice and solidarity. Once again, I appeal to all of you to step forward together and try to find the best solutions. The marriage is put into the first reading. We can still fix the law through the treatments on the parent's working body even at the last reading. And I really don't see any obstacles to that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The text is by Benedict Kopmajer, to prepare Mr Dusan Radič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u52	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which was adopted by 20. Seven. In 1983, he provided insurance for farmers and members of their households in Articles 10 and 11. He arranged that the combined farmers could be protected from a base which was not lower than the amount of the lowest pension for the full pension of the worker in the combined work; and thus were protected for the full extent of the rights or for the lesser extent of the rights. However, they were granted insurance, according to the applicant, for a narrower scope. This could have occurred for several reasons. The rules provided that only the holder of the farm could be insured as a united farmer, while all others could be secured as other farmers. In addition, there may have been errors in the entry into the insurance system and contributions as joint farmers, even though they were led as other farmers. This is noted by the applicant. In all the procedures so far, there has been no dispute over pension and other compulsory insurance rights, aid and service allowance, invalidity allowance, annual allowance, but there has never been a dispute over the number of insurance periods. In 1997, even the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia ruled and no constitutional appeal was adopted. The Constitutional Court has also clarified several times that the principle of equality cannot be understood as a general equality of all but as an equal treatment of the same factual situation. While the applicant points out that funds are not provided from the budget, which is not entirely true, as pension funds are not sufficient to cover the expenditure of this cash register; therefore, a certain part of the funds is also provided from the Treasury. The Government also notes that the addition to the PPIZ-2 is not justified and does not follow the trend of regulating pension insurance where, for economic and social reasons, it is necessary to tighten the conditions of retirement itself. Where discrimination existed between 1983 and 1992 and for the same amount of contributions the other farmers did not have the same scope of rights as the combined farmers, this discrimination was eliminated by the PIZ in 1992. At that time, all farmers had equal rights under the same conditions, wider or narrower, depending on the level of the contribution; regardless of the status. Some farmers have even had positive discrimination, which is said to be a broader scale of lower contributions.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko has the floor to prepare Mr Marijan Pojbič, followed by Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished representative of the Ministry! Today we are talking about farmers' pensions, so I cannot pass the fact that I can stop at the very introduction to agriculture. Why? Agriculture is one of those first and basic human activities. And it's agriculture that has made it possible for people to settle permanently in certain areas. As in the past, we record a large percentage of people working in agriculture in Slovenia today. We have a lot of working surfaces that are unfortunately becoming increasingly untapped. Many farms are also increasingly abandoned. Many farmers have abandoned farming because it simply does not pay off or because it does not have an heir. However, it is often also because they have found that, for the first time, farm work is extremely difficult and ultimately does not allow for some social security during the retirement period. The younger generation is therefore moving to cities, older people remain on farms, and their farms are becoming increasingly difficult to care for. We are still speaking in our cases to the greatest extent for self-sustaining farms. But agriculture has been and will remain extremely important, for the first time, because of the provision of the population with the necessary food and, secondly, for the preservation of our cultural landscape. We need to be aware that we have many small farms, especially in northeastern Slovenia, from where I come from. We also have a large number of hill farms, where work is further hampered. Today, however, we have before us a law to supplement the Pension and Disability Insurance Act in a way that depends on the amount of contributions paid. In our Group of Members, we estimate that there has been an injustice in the past. The Act, which entered into force on 1 January 1984, allowed farmers to be included in the pension scheme as joint farmers or as other farms; therefore, we shared our farmers at the time. In practice, agricultural insurance companies were very often registered as so-called other farmers. The law allowed only farm owners to be protected as farmers; all others had to be insured as so-called other farmers. Very often, however, it was you, including the others — the partner and the children, who paid the same amount of contributions as the combined farmers. Notwithstanding the level of the contributions paid, these farmers today are not granted the same right, which means that several farmers are injured in this case. They paid the same amount of contributions as joint farmers or as joint workers and are granted only insurance for a narrower range of rights. So we don't have to assume otherwise that these farmers are in an unequal position. Once again, everyone has paid the same amount of contributions and this should also be the basis for the amount of the pension. I believe that farmers at the time did not think about the pension or how they would be treated differently in the future, so it is only right that we here today in the National Assembly correct this injustice. On the one hand, we have people who receive very high pensions without adequate contributions; on the other hand, we have a farmer who has actually made sure that they, their family, survived without being a burden to the country. They paid the same contributions as other so-called united farmers, took care of the land, processed it, cared for the beauty of our Slovenia; but these farmers are being punished today. This injustice should certainly be rectified. We only want fair treatment of all farmers on the basis of the contributions paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u55	Thank you. The word is Marijan Pojbič. Mr Janko Weber, follow him, Mrs Jelka Godec. Mr. Pojbich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I support this law because I am convinced that we want to correct with it the injustices that were the result of certain decisions of certain political groups in the past, that is, in 1983 or when this law was passed. At the same time, I think it is appropriate to respond to some of the allegations made today in this House that are absurd. Firstly, by a colleague from Desus, the following statement was made: "There was no discrimination against farmers." This claim was made. Now I'm going to try to explain to you that this wasn't the case. I am sure, no matter how old someone is in this House, he knows very well in 1946 when the agrarian reform was carried out. When the agrarian reform was carried out, it was illegal to confiscate property for all or almost all those who had any assets in the country at the time. On the force. But not only that, they were deprived of everything they had for their own survival. The people at the end didn't even have a piece of bread to support their five-, six-, seven-member family, but that's where the bandits came in. That was banditry. Bandits who have taken this from these people without any relevant legal argument. And that's true and that's the result of something, but now I'm going to quote what I did in the National Assembly once again, and I think I'm going to do it again. This is a quote by Moshe Pijada, November 1942, an extremely important, extremely large causal link between what I was saying is what is written here. And dear colleagues, I will quote this so that you will understand why I am saying this; but this because the Lady of Desus said that there was no discrimination against farmers. Look what Mr Mosha Pijade said in his speech. No, it can't be, it can't be me, sir, unfortunately. "That's why it takes so many homeless people to become the majority of them in the country. That's why we have to burn. We'll shoot and back off. The Germans won't find us and they'll burn villages out of revenge." Remember Dražgoš. "Then the villagers, who will be without a roof, will come to us themselves and we will thus become masters of the situation. Those who have no house, no land, no animals, will join us quickly when we promise them a great robbery." And the big robbery was exactly what I was talking about. It was a big robbery. "It will be harder with those who have at least some property. These will bind us with lectures, theatres, plays and other propaganda. This will gradually rite all the places. A villager who has a house, fields and livestock, a worker who receives a salary and has bread, is worthless to us. We have to make them homeless, proletarian... Only the unfortunates become communists. That is why we must create disaster and bring the crowds to despair. We are mortal enemies of all prosperity, order and peace." And why I quoted it. And if you link this to the denationalization that happened in 1946, you'll find the right causal link. And if any of you in this House can say that it wasn't banditry, then the devil should take me. And this document is an official document, which was published for the first time in 70 years, and is being kept by the archives of the Supreme Command of the Yugoslav Army at the Military Technical Institute in Belgrade under the number K-2, 30.12. [[Incomprehensible]] Dear members of Desus, I ask you very much that the lady who claimed that there was no discrimination against farmers, tell her to read it and go back and see what it really means and what happened to agricultural reform to the agricultural population, agriculture and all those who had any assets. And in the system, as you know, most of the property is owned by normal farmers besides others, as far as land and all that is concerned. And why do we have such destroyed agriculture and the functioning of this area in our country? It was because those who spoke here, so Mosha Pijade, was also aware of the need to be taken away from the upright and given to those who had nothing at all, little things, that they would not be able to die or live. And with that you have them under strict control and you are directly dependent, a servant of every year's authority. And this is what is unacceptable and unacceptable; and I hope that this will never happen again. Don't tell me anything, but the real truth is something else. Then, at the same time, respected, it was said that it was by Ambassador Desus that the following was said: "It was right that the state pension had been abolished." My dear representatives of the pensioners, please, and then please don't make such statements. Around this you have to imagine what you said, and then warn your fellow Member not to say such things, that it is right that state pensions have been abolished. You know how much the state pension was and how many people. Were people guilty that the situation, the system, brought these people so far that they could not afford to pay for themselves because they had nothing to live for because with this agrarian reform and all those consequences, you impoverished people to the last limit. Is this people's fault?Oh, my God! You think it's right for a party to defend the interests of pensioners and pensioners that we have abolished a state pension. Please think of your words and your statements. Next thing you know, the financial effects in this law are problematic. Obviously, we have money where we don't have to; but when it comes to small things like this, we fix injustices and there's no money. Why am I saying this? I will explain again with arguments that you will be very clear on how the Slovenian state works and that we have on the one hand huge privileges; on the other hand, we do not have enough character to save these poor people with a few Euros from what happened to them. It's very important data and it's right to say it because it's written and it's coming from the Bureau of Statistics. According to ZPIZ, 24 thousand 834 fighter pensions were paid this March, with 7 thousand 599 actual fighters, 982 disabled fighters, while the majority of the fighting pensions — that is, 15 thousand 253 — were paid to families of fighters whose members did not fight at all. And look, the heights of pensions. The maximum pension paid is EUR 1,000 856,04, the pension of a thousand EUR 767,65, then the disability pension and a thousand EUR 414,12 family pension. Last year, nearly €32 million was paid in total, 589 thousand €938.53. So that's what we have the money for. Look at this. In the last 12 years, only 660 million euros have been paid for these pensions in our country. 660 million euros. And here we are talking about 15,000 253 pensions, where they were virtually not fighters. Please, how do you have a face, how does one of you in this House have a face to say anything? Who, tell me?Oh, my God! I'm ashamed to live in a country like this. I'm ashamed. On the one hand, we allow ourselves this, such excesses, these are excesses, no matter what the consequences of some laws that have ever been passed. When we talk about some righteousness in this country when we talk about righteousness, we should also think about what these poor pensioners who have 400, 500; like my mother, when she cannot survive. He can't die and can't survive, but he can't sell anything because he lives there in the Slovenian Gorges, where there's nothing to sell. Nothing. These are important things and then don't tell me that the financial effects are problematic, but when it comes to some 100, 200 or some 500 Euros or I don't know, a few thousand Euros. Also, one of the gentlemen who spoke before me said, "We are not talking about two groups of people." That's what this gentleman said that he was discussing before me. I'll tell you now. If he says we're not talking about two groups of people, I will now try to explain to him with arguments that he is wrong. See what the Government wrote in its position, the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with reasons and justifications. And she wrote, "First category, united farmers had the option of protecting themselves for a narrower or wider range of rights." And what did she write next, in paragraph two? Even so beautifully she wrote: "So-called", under the terms "other farmers addressed by the proposal to supplement the ZPIZ-2 were all insured on the same insurance basis and for a narrower scope of rights." Dear colleagues, explain to me. If I'm a farmer, am I farmer number one, or am I farmer number two? Let me explain. Tell me! The experts from Desus, the left, Mr. Skobernet, I've listened to you before, let us explain! Let us explain this because we're crazy, obviously, we don't understand it. The government will write this down on its own, and we do not understand that we are talking about two groups of people. And we're talking about people who are farmers number one and farmers number two. Farmer number one has this right and farmer number two has another right. It is said that we are bi-lingual citizens, even now before the law, if both paid the same amount of money, they receive different pensions. Please! And we just want to fix it. Can anyone tell me this marriage isn't fair? I beg you very much, which party do you live in, which country do you live in, all those Members and Members who today, through the positions of the groups of Members, have said that you will not support this law! And continue to allow a single-party system in this country, where some of them were small gods, such as we have here at this moment, fighters and, above all, those who were never fighters, the 15,000. On the other hand, those who work well on farms up the Slovenian Mountains, in Koroška and there, not to speak, up in that area where some do not even have water – they are second-rate citizens. And this is how the left hand and this left-wing policy of agriculture treats it. And he underestimates them only because most of them are not left-wing voters. That's embarrassing. This is unfair and unfair. And I would expect us to agree in this country once, find a compromise and say – the Republic of Slovenia has only one type of citizens, one category of citizens, these are citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. No, some are privileged, they live as small gods; on the other hand, they are poor from Styria, that I will not say from our environment, which is not Ljubljana with its surroundings. And once we clear this up, we say that the Republic of Slovenia is one country where we all want to live and have the right to live where we all want to have the same rights; then I hope that we will take a key step forward for our common good. When we don't separate into one who has everything, and most of the others who can't survive. So I ask you to reconsider this law that we have proposed. You say that this law is political, that it is a political subject; I am sure that this law is ready for the purpose of correcting the injustices caused by those who knew exactly what they were doing. But we are obliged once and for all to draw the line under this filth and say that we defend everything and everyone in this society and defend righteousness. Justice, however, is the key to this country's once-in-a-lifetime functioning as it needs to be. That a country in which the law will apply for all the same and all the things that are meant to be involved will have as many conditions as are appropriate for normal survival. That's our job. That is why I ask all parliamentary groups, irrespective of my debate, because I think it has been very correct, particularly fair to support this law in this reading. And if the government finds that there are other things to be changed in this law, to be completed, it has every opportunity to do so in a second reading, that it will be acceptable for all who are sitting here in Parliament and on the other hand also for the executive branch of power; and to correct these injustices that have arisen. We are confident that this law can eliminate them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Procedurally has Mr. Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u58	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. I must say that I am very disappointed at this debate, colleague Marian, which, you will not believe, I really appreciate. His discussions on the Labour Committee are everything but here today. And I am pleased with every debate he has on the Committee on Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. Here, Marian, I think it's gone a little too far. I would really ask, this is the procedural part, let's stick to it, let's talk about amending the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. And here we're mixing a bunch of pears and apples that don't belong in this matter at all. Desus was all mentioned too often. I have to say here that we do not want to be and we are not a beacon for possible mistakes from the past. n This time, let me draw attention to two issues, for the first time that we come from individual judgments for this competent court, there is strength and it can be concluded that the principles of equality cannot be understood as the general equality of all; but that equal treatment of the same factual situation. That's the first thing. Secondly, it is also an important fact that, in all the procedures so far, there has never been a dispute over the number of insurance from 1983 or the beginning of 1984 to the first three months of 1992 for a narrower range of rights. These are indisputable matters that you absolutely must all admit to standing. And one more thing. Please, this is not a discrimination of any kind against the peasant population; even in Desus, which we have mentioned so many times, we are working to ensure that, as you said, all citizens and citizens of this country have the same rights and that we will not be scattered here on a geographical basis, on the basis of the state and so on. Please. I propose that we stick to the agenda, focus on this tiny part proposed by the proposer as a change in the PIC and that we no longer spread ideological themes, because this is really not the place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u59	Thank you. It went a little past the procedural proposal. It went a little wide. In the future, please don't do this anymore, so we can stick to the agenda. Mr. Tanko, procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. I would very much like you to remind my colleagues from the coalition that the procedural proposal is addressed to the one who holds the meeting and not to the one who has discussed it. The person he was discussing is addressed to a replica. I suggest that you consider this time spent at the time of the debate of the Group of Members, not as a procedural proposal. On the other hand, Madam President, I would like you to ask the representative of the Government to answer just a few questions in all these debates that my fellow Members have. In particular, it should state whether it is constitutionally correct for insurers to receive one dose of their pension when they meet the same conditions and for others to receive a substantially lower amount of their pension. This is a fundamental issue of this debate. I'd like to ask you to call the government to answer that. It is the basis in the Constitution for insured persons to be accounted for differently under the same conditions, payments and other conditions; according to what they have paid into the procedure. I think that this answer is based on whether the law is acceptable or appropriate; and it corrects this error or abuse that has occurred in history; or not. It is whether those who have paid the same contributions are in a constitutionally identical position or in the right position that they have different calculated pensions; and their situation is the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u61	Thank you. The representative of the Government has applied for the debate, I give the floor to Mr Peter Pogačar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. I have spoken to this issue today in the introduction to the debate of the first-signed proposer. About constitutionality itself, we know who is in charge in this country, that this Constitutional Court does not decide. What I have already said today is not a problem again, even on the basis of a debate which was also known by Mr Pojbič. The equality of rights arises from the same situation. Here we are talking about two groups of farmers — united farmers and other farmers. These farmers themselves voluntarily chose which group they would join. The same was true of their members. This law was already prescribed by Mr Škobernet today. Now we are talking about this: the level of contributions for both groups has been set in the same way, and this is what I understand, according to the proposaler of this law, that it is controversial – the same contribution, and today the amount of the pension is different. Of course, because the content of the insurance itself was different. If you are insured for a wider range of rights, you have been entitled to shorter benefits from disability insurance. Today you exercise the right to an allowance for recreation, to an allowance for help and service. You don't have the right to do that in insurance. It is said that the contribution is the same, but for different rights. The essential question of whether this is a distinction is which form of insurance you have chosen; and the farmer has made a voluntary decision. He may not have been informed enough, that's admissible. It's hard to know all these rules. He chose the decision, insured himself and became another farmer, insured himself for a narrower scope of rights; this meant that, at a later stage, his pension was also deducted from the contributions actually paid. He did not have that security guard, as the insured have for a wider range of rights, to be measured against the lowest pension base. Therefore, their pensions are with those who have chosen lower grades of payment and have chosen again to be themselves, so those rights are lower. The principle of equality and the principle of equal rights means that it must be based on the same factual and legal situation. In this case, it was not given. And it was not given because some have chosen such a form of their agricultural activity to go to united farmers, others such. They chose voluntarily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u63	Procedurally has Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u64	Thank you very much, distinguished representative of the government, for your answer. Madam President, I propose that we ask you whether you ask the representative of the Government of Mr Pogacar whether it is justified that the State has recognised a different range of rights for the same amount in the same household. For example, the husband and wife were in the same household, paying the same amount, but they received different levels of rights. This is a question and I am talking about whether this is constitutionally justified. Is there such a legal distinction that two people in the same household who were in the same insurance system — whether united or not — had different rights for the same amount? I ask this question, and I wonder if this is constitutionally permissible, because the principle of equality still applies and probably applied at the time, and that means that for the same amount you receive from the country the same amount of rights you paid. However, it is not that some get one scope of rights, the same household, and in the same status significantly lower the scope of rights for the same money. And I'm asking for an answer because that's what this marriage is all about.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u65	I would almost say that it was an abuse of the procedural proposal, as the representative of the Government is constantly monitoring the meeting, can apply at any time. Now I don't know, Mr. Peter Pogacar, are you going to answer anything else? Do you want to answer or continue? Here you go, Mr. Peter Pogacar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u66	Thank you. I'll try to answer anyway. The principle of equality, according to our assessment in this case, is not violated because, regardless of the same amount, they were insured on a different insurance basis; regardless of whether the amount of the payment was equal. This condition also gives rise to different insurance bases. This is due to the fact that they today have a different amount of pension, not just the amount paid. If the amount is the same and would be secured on the same basis, such a distinction would of course be unacceptable. However, since they have been insured on a different basis, which they have also voluntarily chosen, let us not forget this, the distinction in the final remuneration to the extent of rights in this case, according to our assessment, is legally permissible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u67	Thank you. Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mrs Jelka Godec for her, Mrs Janja Slug.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u68	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! With this interpretation of equality, which I myself wanted to present, I would no longer add, since the Secretary of State has again presented nicely why it was during that period and that everyone was able to make their own decisions at that time. It is true, however, that he must have made decisions on the basis of his financial ability, one of the other issues. At this point, I would like to draw attention to this law once again to the financial impact assessment. This is a topic that I have already started at one of the meetings of the Committee on Finance. We must be aware that we have written down in the Constitution a provision on the balance of public finances, so the fiscal rule is enshrined in the Constitution. The National Assembly is preparing for the adoption of the implementing law and it will have a drastic impact on the situation of people and social rights. You say and the basic starting point of the proposalr is that in Slovenia we can spend as much as we create. Therefore, as exceptional advocates of the fiscal rule, applicants should explain in detail the financial implications, because they say that there are no direct financial implications for the budget, but today a billion and a half are provided from the pension budget. However, even if nothing was guaranteed from the budget, these financial consequences should tell us how much contributions should be made to employers for the pension fund if we recognise additional rights. And perhaps everyone else will have to work in Slovenia for as long as we recognise additional rights in the pension system. These are the issues that we must take very seriously today. It is simple to explain that what was once and before in Parliament in this area, unfortunately, cannot be taken into account anymore, because the Constitution has been amended, a fiscal rule can even be adopted as an implementing law. Since then, my dears, without careful analysis of the financial implications, if you demand something to give to someone, you must also tell them how we will balance this, where we will take this money. It was noted from the debate that it was possible to reduce the fighting pensions. If we did not resist World War II Fascism and Nazism and there would be no liberation, we would be living today in an apparently fascist or Nazi regime. The characteristic of the Fascist and Nazi regime is that the individual or group prevails over all others. And that's the biggest inequality that can happen. Let us be happy that we can be in Parliament today in a state of our own and that we can draw attention to these things. For if there were no fighters, we would not have been able to warn them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The word is Mrs. Jelka Godec. Mrs. Janja Slug, Mrs. Iva Dimic, be prepared for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that. In these debates that were ahead of us, I must say, a number of strange things have been suggested, if I may say, nebulosis; even there – young Mr Škoberne, who must be forgiven because he is so young, he does not know what was going on at the time, nor does he obviously have any contact with the farmers who are experiencing these injustices. As far as Mrs Levicar is concerned, she has disappointed me, too, because she says that there were no differences in agriculture at the time and that things could have been fixed earlier. These people are now going to retirement, and now these things are showing up. Then, in those days, because you all know, in the 1950s, in 1946, agrarian reform, let us give the land to those who will cultivate it; and they took the land from the farmers. As Mr Škoberne said, they gave voluntarily; far from that – if you did not give, they took away you. I know the cases where they were taken by nationalization. And also, Mr. Weber, if you smile, yes, they took it. They came, sign it, and they took it. On this land, however, they built various houses, schools, gas stations, and so on. Therefore, these denationalisation procedures are still in place today. At the time, farmers were very naive, in many ways. They were also poorly educated and could be brought around by this payment to the pension register. The government representative said they had a choice whether to bring together farmers or to remain farmers. How did a farmer’s wife, who was a farmer and was a united farmer, have the opportunity to decide whether to be united or not? She didn't have it! My wife wasn't united, but she was the other farmer. What they were told — pay the same as your husband, the same amount of contributions so that you will have the same pension. And now I understand those women who have worked their whole life on the farm, and sometimes even more than men, and have been without the same pension. And it's not funny, it's not funny! I know a lot of cases like this. That's not funny at all. If we say that women had no choice, they paid the same contributions; and it was said that the united farmers, those who were farmers, were usually men who had more obligations – let us ask women who sometimes had more obligations, who supported the three corners of the house. [[advertising from the hall]] I think it makes sense to ask who was discriminated against here. If I look at it from this point of view, women have been very discriminated against. They didn't have a choice. They didn't have a choice. In the family, in the household there was only one united farmer. And as long as I first listened to the ministry representative, you said that in this work, so in the same household, you allow the possibility that there were differences or that there were irregularities. Women, uneducated, stayed at home, sometimes worked more than men, not only in the fields, fields, and so forth, even in the household, paying the same contributions as men; yet today they are without a pension. That's not true? Then I hope you're being listened to by those who have suffered these injustices. Those women who say - I've spent my whole life on a farm, I've given my whole life for children, now I don't even have 200 euros. At times, it seems that the legislation was really designed to give the privileged what they thought belonged to them. Today, however, legislation should be one that would mean security for people. And those who have no argument against what happened in the 1950s and beyond talk about how we did not define the financial implications, how there is no money in the balance sheet or budget. That's the easiest thing to say, there's no money to keep a man with 198 euros in pension at so many years and so many years of farm work. I think those of you who are smiling now are laughing if it's not true that these injustices were not happening, or you're living somewhere in a completely closed world, vacuumed, you see only high privileged things, we have no problem giving any pensions to privileged people; but here, when it comes to small differences, it goes from 198, flat-rately I say, for some 50 along, something over 220. That guilt. And I can't agree with you saying it was on a different basis. They paid the same contributions and told them – pay the same contributions because you will have then, do not take any account of your remaining farmers, just pay full, because then you will have a full pension. That's exactly what they were told. That's what they were told, and that's what the people we know who had something to do with it. What Mr Škoberne, a united and cooperative farmer, said, is at odds with logic and he has no problem with it, he has had instructions, and someone else has had instructions on what to say. But these people who have talked before about how all farmers were the same, how there was no distinction; whether you are too young to know whether you have any idea what was going on in the countryside, what was going on today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u71	Thank you. Mrs. Janja Sluga has the floor. Get Mr. Simon Zajc ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that. Throughout this debate, I find that we are obviously constantly talking about a number of different situations that, I don't know why, we are throwing ourselves into the same basket. For one thing, what has already been exposed many times today is that those farmers who have been united, and those who have not been, are said to be all others. And they have really been in different situations, so they also have a different range of rights. Those who were united have also now been read literally out of marriage, and their family members have had a choice of their own whether or not they will join them in this status; that is, the carriers and their family members. Therefore, the arguments are that this is not the case, is misleading and I simply cannot agree with them. The other situation that Mr Lah is talking about today, I am very sorry that this judgment has not been attached to us so that we can discuss it so that we can learn about it, but on the basis of everything that we have checked in our Group of Members and what we have heard today through the debate, I can think that it is someone who has insured himself for another insurance basis; therefore, it does not belong to the same extent of rights that is logical. That's still the way it is today. For different statuses, different categories are subject to different ranges of rights; this has always been and will always be the case. I, too, cannot agree that citing this decision by the Constitutional Court is misleading. I'll read it again so we can really imagine what the Constitutional Court has written. The Constitutional Court ruled on the case of one of the complainants belonging to the other farmers and took the view that individual groups of insurers could not be equated. Since the complainant paid the same contributions as other insurers and was secured only for a narrower scope, he maintained a violation of the principle of equality of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitutional Court has taken the view that individual groups of insurers cannot be equated. However, in the explanatory memorandum, it stated that farmers covered under Article 11 of the ZPIZ, namely those who did not have the status of a united farmer, were entitled only to a narrower circle of rights; irrespective of the level of the insurance base from which they were insured of their own choice. So once again, they had a choice, they had different statuses, and they were insured for different insurance bases. And that's a dot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr Simon Zajc has the floor to prepare himself for Mr Mag. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u74	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. When I heard that the Disability and Retirement Insurance Act would be amended, which would eliminate the injustice that had happened to farmers, I was very happy. In general, I am deeply disturbed by the violation of legal rights. Mr. Tanko, yes. But you have to look at the whole thing. Before continuing, I would like to resolve something else — a partnership. It was a little different for us, although according to the law we had, it was very similar for the Russian people to actually associate farmers with the land, with machines, and I don't know what. But what did that really look like? Just like now, in the cooperative, you bought the seed, planted it, and when you had the crop, you sold it to the cooperative. That's what happened, and that's why you were a member of the cooperative. From this point of view, it is not clear to me why I would not want to be a member of a cooperative because you really benefited from it. But as for the sons and the wives of these farmers, who were cooperative farmers, they were able to share in the same union under law. I'm just gonna read this article so I don't think about it, 'cause then it happens so fast, I miss something. Article 71, third paragraph, which states that, irrespective of the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article, a member of the agricultural holding who lives and works on it shall also acquire the property of a united farmer and shall sign a self-administrative agreement on the pooling of work and resources, even though it combines its work. This means that even a wife, including a son, could both have been a united farmer. And the two of them were then able to collect whether they would be insured on a wider scale or not because they could have been a united farmer. I was really worried about this from the judgment, I can't comment on why in this case the judgment happened that the son was not insured on a wider scale of rights. But he had this right by all laws at the time. And now we can't change the law because of one single case. I really don't know who advised him not to take insurance on a wider scale. That's what happened, but there's no way, it's not the right way for us to handle this through law. And yes, it's a problem if you look away and you think it's unfair for two people to pay the same, but not for the same amount of rights. It's unfair until you look at it in the sense that you can't combine and equalize different groups of insurers. In this case, farmers were different groups of insurers. This could have happened on the same farm, but because they were different groups of insurers, they paid just as they paid; they could have the same, and they had different rights. But this does not mean that they were discriminated against, especially since they also had the opportunity to decide whether they would be one or the other. Again, I don't want to judge why this happened if you had the chance to decide to be a united farmer, but you didn't. But if that's what they've decided, it'll have certain consequences. And I'm sorry, we can't accept this law today because it doesn't really regulate anything. That's when they decided, and that's what the consequences were. Once again, I regret that there are such individual cases, but this, honourable Members, is not our job today to resolve this by amending this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Bell Lah as a motioner, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u76	Mr Colleague, Article 10 states that they also have family members; however, Article 12 states that the manner of determining the characteristics of the insured person, the manner in which the contributions are entered into, the manner in which the contributions are paid and the taxpayers are paid for contributions to the insured persons referred to in Articles 10 and 11 of this Law shall be determined by the Community by means of a self-administrative general act. It was not the individual’s will; it could be, under this law, Article 10, but Article 12 provides that a self-governance general act should determine the community. And here it is likely that, in this bush, the rabbit is concerned that the self-governance community with a self-governance general act has simply classified it as it was then. Not that he could have made up his own mind, as you say. And in this case it was so that despite the fact that the father and son paid in the fourth grade, the father had wider rights and the son was insured as the other farmer. In good faith too, he thought that he and his father were both united farmers, both of whom had greater rights; that was not the case. And when he went to exercise these rights of disability insurance, they told him there — no, you're like another farmer. I don't know why he would pay the same as his father, but if he consciously decided on a narrower scope of rights where the right to sick leave and the right to disability are excluded. I guess that's the problem. And then in court, he achieved that he was granted a wider scope of rights and was classified and disabled. Now he must return to court in order to be granted a pension from a broader perspective. Our proposal is to remedy this by correcting it and that everyone, who would be right, has the same rights, based on how much they pay for their contributions.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar has the floor to prepare Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u78	Your Honor, thank you very much for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! One constitutional provision states that everyone should be equal before the law. And today we are mainly talking about the diversity of the administrative categorization of individuals, which means, and today, too, we have heard several times in the debate that we cannot compare the different categories of insurers. Of course we can't, but if these insurers have the same payments, then there's another question. And I'm just going to give a comparison of how this works in the agricultural field where farmers are protected. If I make a comparison with the privileged pensions in our country, which we know are large, I estimate almost 30% over my thumb. Yes, but this is an administratively different category. And I think it's a real anomaly that in an agricultural work where everyone pays the same contributions, whether it's a farm holder, whether it's a joint farmer, whether it's a farm worker, or a family member from a farm, they don't have the same basics, pension and disability insurance rights. In short, there's a difference. However, if I look on the other side of the privileged pension, where they have paid in the same way as others from the economy or elsewhere, but because they are otherwise categorised, they receive much higher ratings and are also well on higher pension and disability insurance; also in the case of pension payments themselves. It's just a variety of categorizations, but there's no justice here. In my opinion, this law, the existing law, is bad because it is not fair to all those who pay pension and disability insurance; and thus this law needs to be corrected so that it is in place. I believe that there is still a broader element to be corrected in this area, but this is a step towards improvement and fairness in rural pension and disability insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u80	Thank you so much for saying that. As we discuss our proposed law, it might be useful to draw attention to the broader background that follows the relationship between this government coalition and all other previous left-wing government coalitions, as well as that period before 1990, to problems towards agriculture and agriculture. Never was the area of farmers, whenever this country was ruled by these regimes, whether at the time of independence or after independence, the situation was not good, the situation was not right, and these people were not treated equally. Never. If you remember, right after the war it was coming to all those who had more than I know how much land to impound the land. There was a land maxim in that country because the farmer was not a category that was valued. Everywhere else across Europe, they have learned that farm survival requires areas that provide economic minimum, that is, real survival. We had an administrative regime in place, and everything that went through it got out of hand. That wasn't enough. Later, a mandatory broadcast of what they were producing was introduced, a quota system was introduced and people had to, those who worked on farms, because they were not valued, still contribute to the survival of the rest of the population. Then let's go. Although all of this happened, children in rural families were in a deprived position. For example, in children’s allowances, the number for those who had land was different from for those in working families, as well as for scholarships, if they were applied from state resources, from republican resources, the number was different. Thus, even the entire period of the country’s population, the people we came from farming families, were in some subjugation. The State did not provide for the same calculation of the status of equal remuneration or compensation for payments of child allowances or anything else. For example, when farmers purchased equipment, they could not buy a new machine, such as imports from Austria or elsewhere. They couldn't, they could've imported an old machine, five or seven more together. These were all those restrictions of the former – both the social states of the SFRJ. They couldn't. You can check all this out. This has been experienced by those who come from these families on their own. This was the contribution of the SFRY State to the development of agriculture, agriculture, rural conservation, land processing and some advanced agriculture. You say, at least some of you here said that this law could not be adopted because times were different. The crisis was also in 2009. At that time, a prominent member of this national assembly or government came with a solution when a shamefully low state pension was abolished. The main recipients or important categories of recipients of state pensions were farmers. And this measure, perhaps Mr Pogacar will know, has been replaced by social security benefits on which mortgages have been paid. The state pension was traded for social security benefits for which the farmer could have applied; however, a mortgage on the property had been paid on the matter. Now, I'm asking you, the state pension was granted a right, and you suspended it. Mr Svetlik probably suggested that your current minister was then a secretary of state, she also defended it, the SD had the majority, she supported it, the rest of the coalition was the same. I ask or wonder how all these stories that have been happening in this country have been going on. And all I'm talking about is agriculture. I have before me a law that introduced this precisely – took a state pension, the 200 or 250 euro old farmers, the old woman somewhere in the outskirts of the countryside, away from the centres and traffic flows. And if this old, exhausted farmer's wife wanted some state aid, she had to give part of her farm for every pension transfer. And now you're talking about a just and social state! You're talking about fixing the wrongs and so on. All that stuff I'm talking about, you can check it back, all that data stands. At the same time, Mr Potrce proposed the law in 2009, when we were waiting for the French-German train, Berlin-Paris, it was not this relationship; however, he did not come because he had proposed that widowed persons be paid some additional pensions after the former military insurers. At the same time, when a state pension was taken, the SD proposed the additions to the pensions of widowed persons by former JLA officers. A day or two ago, data came out that the Liberal Democracy, in a time of crisis, granted citizenship to the Council of Sherbedji after 2009. A respected artist throughout the entire area of the former Yugoslavia, even in Slovenia, has given him no problem; but at the same time she has granted him the privilege. I don't know how much of an art supplement he gets – about 500, 700 euros every month because someone liked him and gave him citizenship. At the same time. And now those of you who were in the government at the time or were sympathetic to these measures are talking about not being able to do anything. This supplement received by Rade Šerbedži every month – and did not pay one tolar, one dinar, one cent in the Slovenian pension system – is ten times or fifteen times higher than the amount that an individual would receive to correct this injustice; at least fifteen times higher. Nobody's hurt. Have you asked any questions? Does anyone propose a revision of the allocation of citizenship? Whether someone proposes to revise the allocation of this privilege and so on and so forth. What we are listening to right now in the debates of fellow Members from other parliamentary groups is a complete diversion. On the one hand, if necessary or not, and money can and will be wasted; on the other hand, when it comes to an exceptional group, I will even say a threatened group that lives mainly in the countryside, but the Secretary of State speaks of non-discrimination and that it is correct that such differences in these levels of insurance are. See if there are two persons in the same household and one is insured for the same amount for one volume of rights and the other cannot be secured for the same scope of rights because it is a common household, then something in this system is wrong. The country in which you are the Secretary of State, part of the executive branch of the Authority, should see such injustices being corrected. I should come by myself with a proposal for a law, because now it also has a judicial decision that it has to fix some things. Here, however, the Secretary of State is dealing with this and explaining how they are not justified. A country that is unable to eliminate these obvious things does not deserve the name of a government. Those who continue to advocate injustice do not deserve to be Members of the National Assembly. If the citizens, you, say those on the left, prefer to give him citizenship, and I don't know how many Euros of supplement he has contributed, we don't give, and we don't give, and we don't give, and we don't give, and we don't grant rights to those who paid for it, at least the same amount as those who got it, then something with our constitution, and especially those who read it wrong, is very wrong. That's so wrong. Today we are talking as we have done so many times about the correction of injustice, which has been consciously committed as one of many in the series after 45, as one of many in the series in sequence, systemically prepared after 45. And even when the governments of Mr Drnovšek, Mr Pahor and Alenka Bratušek and others are, and now Mira Cerar are closing their eyes before these repairs of injustices. It's a perverse thing to do. We are here talking about the correction of the injustices for about, I don't know, 30 to 50 euros per person who is supposed to be entitled to equalise that amount. All together, the full amount of this will not be more than €220 or €230 per month per insured person; 50 of this will be offset for those affected in this part. Mr Milan Kučan has about EUR 700 every month of privileged work that you have given him with a certain law, those who support certain things that are arranged in different ways that you have double standards. Before that, colleagues pointed to a category that was not freedom fighters, but received. This category pays off annually, I think I got it right, 30 million euros. They weren't members of the NOB. Today you pay some status and privileges to those involved in the killings, postwar killings to understand each other. This was not a contribution to the independence or liberation of Slovenia. This was already over on May 9th. That was done after that. And so on. And sooner or later, the question will arise why this discrimination must continue to be cultivated. Why should this discrimination continue to be cultivated? It is no wonder that there is no minister here now, because she was one of those who, in some of the changes in the time of the Pahor government and has now cooperated and defended them in the way that Mr Pogacar now has to. Exceptions that have affected exclusively rural people in rural areas. If I recall how much manure has been spilled for us to introduce a warm meal for students or to arrange co-financing for school transports, students, student transports that concern exclusively more or less only those in rural areas; these are the main problem. How much anger, ill will, accusations, and so forth were involved in this pay phone. Today these things work, they stand under status conditions, not under some others. And we could keep listing. Despite the crisis, some special rights are still granted by various state recognitions to certain categories of state-winners. We have a crisis, still, but this is still going on as smoothly as it has been. Why are you doing this? Such additions, such privileges are granted to persons who do not even need them, who are already living above standard. If I have the right information, at least two honorary citizens of the Municipality of Ljubljana live almost free of charge in protected apartments. One of these is supposed to have a few thousand dollars of foreign pension. This is the aim of the social state for persons who have a double or triple salary, a state or any public community to pay a subsidy or grant a subsidy to live in a social institution. Is that logical?Oh, my God! On the other hand, we deal with farmers who need to work even now, even if they are 70 years old if they want to work the land. And here, as I can see, you're reading some, I don't know, like you're giving him something. In fact, these insurers paid exactly the same contributions as those with a higher dose. They're exactly the same contributions. In the case of social insurance, the payment of the contribution from farmers’ insurance cannot be made at a lower and higher level for a higher amount. It can't be. For the same amount are the same rights. It's an invention of those who wanted to make another difference, some damage to rural life. Even those who want verbally good intentions to help the countryside have passed a law on coherent regional development. Where does this money end? On the Croatian border? If that were true, then the Kočev municipality would have no problems; there are two Members, Mrs Levicar and Mr Vebra. Weber was a longtime mayor there. If that were the case, then it wouldn't have happened. But because that's not true, because cohesion money, it's called demographic funds, ends up in the Colossae, and that's why these problems still exist. And I don't understand how any policy can cultivate such a distinction. We have the Constitution, where we are equal under the Constitution, where we have the same rights for the same things, we are equal before the law, we are also equal before the social institution, even in terms of rights, if we pay the same and so on; then comes the state representative, the representative of the Government, and this party, which refers exclusively to social rights and categories, and they say that this is easy and reasonable. Not with those words, but in this context. I suggest that, if possible, any shortcomings that our proposal for a law has, correct further consideration. Fix it if you don't like it. And I think that too much effort to improve this law will probably not be necessary, because it is adequately designed, properly written and also sufficiently quality, systemically positioned and comprehensive in this case, because we are eliminating what we are doing with this law. He's complete. If the government thinks that something needs to be improved in any article, it will not have much to do because the law is not excessively long, but it could also suggest it. Social Democrats and others who have a lot of rights in your language, but in your heart you are having a hard time making this happen, and you can also contribute something to not saying the biggest government party. I propose that you give the law support, that we let it go into further procedure, and that we finally put an end to this rural and rural people's behaviour as a pig with fur, as if they were worse off with refugees. You know, in this country, those who come to us to the island, if it is still, in Postojno or elsewhere, probably have a larger monthly flat rate than those who have worked for this country, maintained this land, rural settlement and cultural landscape; and we have a better attitude towards everyone than our own people. That's sad. You have a better relationship with everyone than you do with your own people. It's time that in these cases, when we identify them, we know where these problems are, we fix them. We'll also have to fix them back, not just from today. However, they are not our priority in the fight for superstandard rights for migrants and others who come here, but they must also be fought for the rights of those who live here; they have been systematically and consciously deprived. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Lah has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! While you are here, the ministry also relied on this Article 10 to ensure that individuals from this agricultural holding could all be protected by a wider scope, no, that is not the case, I have convinced myself. Here was also the director of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber, which at the time was himself insured as another farmer because his mother was insured as a united farmer. It also confirms that, under those rules in force at the time, it was not possible to protect itself for a wider scope, not only by law, but by other regulations, that only one could be protected in the agricultural holding for a wider scope than a united farmer. Also in this Decision, the Labour and Social Court states, the insurer states that he was only aware of this when he started exercising disability insurance rights that he did not know before, even though he and his father were paying the same contributions. That's why it doesn't feel like it's easy. Therefore, I propose that, colleagues and colleagues from other parliamentary groups, you reconsider and support this law in the first reading and then, in the second reading, amend or amend it. The government has a government legal service at its disposal. Another solution may be found to correct these injustices in this regard. Why would they leave all such cases to me and send them to the court to then achieve their right under this heading, how much they paid for these contributions? I have no doubt that the court has once heard the payer of the fourth grade. In the 4th grade he was insured as another farmer, as well as following from the report from the ZPIZ, then achieved in court that he was recognised for a wider scope because he had been in good faith all the time to be protected for a wider scope, only he did not need to exploit it, he did not go to the hospital stock, he did not meet the disability conditions previously. He was disappointed and achieved. And he now said, let's make arrangements for all such cases, because they probably won't even know, the PIZ will just take this data, these criteria, and each case will get a little 10 euro lower pension, which will be instead of 220, 230 Euros there 180, 190 Euros. It's not about big money, it's about justice being served, and please, if you support it. In the second reading, the facts can be put on the committee table, things can be cleared up, and then you decide whether or not the law is true or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u83	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Microphone, if you turn it off, Mr. Lah, thank you. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it? If you would also like to discuss the proposal's representative, Mr Zvonko Lah and the representative of the Government, please apply with a raise of hands. They get the word as the last, first the representative of the Government and then the representative of the proposer. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Each debater has 5 minutes. Mr. Jan Škoberne has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. There is only one thing that must be said in this regard that may not have been highlighted enough. Legislation is not written to ad personnel, and this has been heard several times by the proponent this week. It would be wrong to do that in this case. It is necessary to know that the system was set up in such a way that it was a decision on the basis of volunteerism and personal decision, which is why this law in this form, as we have heard from the government, is impossible to support. It would be wise to think about it. Where there have actually been injustices, which unfortunately cannot be discussed because we have not received adequate material from the applicant, it shall correct; but not in such a way as to share rights in general to those who are not entitled to them because of their own decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u85	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u86	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I already said in my first debate that I miss the Minister here today. I greatly appreciate Mr Peter Pogačar as an exceptional expert on the pension system, but here today we, colleagues and colleagues need political will, political decision and slightly more solidarity – solidarity on which our pension system is based, solidarity towards all. This is a key value, this is the value of the Slovenian pension system. And if there was once a political will for the legislative authority to grant pensions to the privileged, then I think that we must, in some way, take account of the farming population today. I still have on my desk the Strategy for the Development of Slovenian Agriculture – and that is always. It's hard to find on Google or anywhere, I've scanned this book. The strategy for the development of Slovenian agriculture was written in 1992 by Prof. Jože Osterc. Not because he was and because he is a Christian Democrat, I do not have this ledger on the table, but because this booklet is still very current today, even when we are in the EU. The introduction states Professor Jože Osterc: "After 1945 agriculture in Slovenia was considered and developed as part of Yugoslav agriculture. Despite some attempts to substantiate the need to introduce Slovenian agriculture, more or less remained at stake. That is why the development of agriculture in Slovenia has led to great imbalances, surpluses of chicken meat, large shortages of cereals and so on and to the nature and properties of unharmonised agriculture, such as large pig farms. By establishing our country", this is very important, "so we must take responsibility as a nation for the fate of Slovenian farmer and Slovenian agriculture into our own hands. In history, the Slovenian farmer was a pillar of Slovenia and no doubt this must remain a post. This means that we cannot view agriculture simply as food production and expose it to global competition without the necessary protection. If we looked at agriculture this way, we would talk about agriculture in Slovenia; we must develop Slovenian agriculture, which is why I stress it so much. Slovenian agriculture, which will also perform other indispensable tasks when food is produced for the needs of Slovenians. These tasks include the permanent preservation of fertile soil, healthy air, and water. These cannot be reproduced or imported. Whatever the cost, they must be maintained. It is also indispensable for Slovenians to maintain a populated and diverse cultural landscape that allows Slovenians to rest and develop tourism. With only a cloned Slovenian farmer, the inhabited country will contribute to the preservation of the Slovenian farmers' identity and thus to the preservation of the identity of the Slovenians." And there's more. Is this 1992 text still up to date, ladies and gentlemen? My firm belief is that he's up to date. And now, once again, a call for political will. Whether we are so willing to vote on this bill today or when we vote on it, we should, as we say, put this law into another reading and try to improve whether it can be modified. If not, if it is unconstitutional or anything – fine, then let us reject it. I'm sure it's not. Just a little bit of political will is required, just a little bit of political will to make it easier and more likely to accept more warmly in the environment where we are going this weekend. I'll support this marriage in the first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that. At the end of this debate on this amendment of the law, I will tell you some facts. The first fact is that when we gained independence, we adopted two key documents here on 25 June 1991 – the Declaration of Independence and the Fundamental Constitutional Charter. It reads in the second paragraph: "The former Yugoslavia was a totalitarian country where human rights and fundamental freedoms were massively violated." Farmers paid the highest price in this totalitarian Yugoslavia. They were killed by Communists in mid - 1941, mass killings in 1942, and then by other categories. After the war in an area where there were no collaborators, no opposition to the communists and their revolutions, especially in Styria, were killed in my area of Slovenian Mountains in the first phase immediately after 9 May 1945 by the largest number of farmers in the Slovenian Gorica. This is followed by fear, the slaughter of the largest farmers, followed in 1946 by the first phase of nationalization, where the land is taken away from the first dignitaries, factories, shops, mines and so on. The second phase of nationalisation goes even there to take away even rental apartments in 1953 and so on. Today's question is, this population has been affected by a class genocide – this is not my argument, this is the justification of the wider international historians. It was a class genocide, as the Germans and the Austrians say, it was an extraordinary genocide. This genocide has been shown throughout the entire period of socialism in smaller stages, and even today, at least some say that this genocide should continue. I'll be the one to base it on the fact that these people were defiant. Some of the survivors who were taken from farms in Slovenski Gorica, from where I come from, where 300 years were good farms, economically independent farms, they paid the highest price. Even if they didn't want to join the company, they did. They objected to the spread of authentic Slovenian culture, that pre-revolution, authentic Slovenian citizenship. It was a nation that, by 1941 or in the old, even the Habsburg monarchy was the last and so honest that it did not need locks. And then this communism put a new man in a hard drive. Anyone who has joined any social political organization has received one cookie, and has received any privileges. These farmers, who have resisted hard work on these small farms, are being punished again today because they were decent, hardworking; because all politicians were also driving through the Slovenian Mountains, looking at the farmed land on a hard-to-reach ground that had not been healed; and who were struggling to survive today, they are living their old age in small houses, mostly immobile with less than 200 euros of pensions; in despair. The few ten euros that we are talking about today, respected colleagues and colleagues, may be just one thing, we can say, a patch to this wound, to all of this genocide that these people have been experiencing. Literally. It's at least something that makes a little smile at those burning, hard faces of these women, the older farmers who live in these houses. And these houses do not hope to leave, nor can they go into a nursing home, because they fear that this will be taken away from them, because the pensions of the nations have been abolished, that they may also be taken away from them; that they cannot show their craftsmen that they have worked hard on this earth for decades. At least what remains is a memory of them, a small and modest house, a piece of land, and this will be taken away from them today. And today we are wondering whether these people, who perhaps will be gone for a few ten or 100 years, on this earth, whether or not they will be given a few ten euros or not. What kind of people we are, people of God. Who made us, who gave birth to us, who raised us, the people of God. On the other hand, on Monday we will talk about the roles of some NLB savers, when we all know that this money was raised by Udba and the former Communist Party of the Year, just before the independence of the NLB, never came to the Central Bank of Belgrade. [[…]] And we're gonna pay tens of millions of this money. Here are the people who have worked hard, who have paid contributions, who have participated in the economic category, they have not been social – they have paid. Social ones are those who have done so, but who have privileged pensions that go from the budget and not from the pension fund. Dear colleagues, this is a minimum standard to confirm that this goes to a second reading to improve this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u89	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Monday, 22 June, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm putting an end to the 13th item of the agenda. We're moving to 20. Period of the day, it's on the proposal for a law amending the law on the enforcement of public funds rights in the first defence. The draft law was tabled by Mr Luka Mesec and Mr Mag. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek. With regard to this bill, a group of 10 Members and Members with the first-signed Luka Mesec requested that the assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mr Luka Mesac.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u90	President, thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! We have drafted a proposal for a law amending the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds on the basis of a petition from the Petka charity for smiles, which has received the support of more than 15,000 people in a very short period of time. This is a human initiative, which is due to the lack of access to subsidised primary school lunches. The proposal for a law has one objective: to ensure free school lunch for all children living below the poverty line. The proposal therefore raises the current subsidised lunch price, which is extremely low, at 18 % of the net average wage per household member, to 36 % of the net average wage. The current censorship has been set at an absolute low level. If we look at how it works in practice. The three-member family's income after the current censure that the child is entitled to lunch must not exceed EUR 540, i.e. 270 per parent or 180 per household member. However, a single mother must not earn more than €360 per month that her child is entitled to a subsidised lunch. By raising the price, we would provide a free lunch for an additional 28 000 primary schoolchildren at the current approximately 16 000 500; therefore, a total of less than 45 000 primary schoolchildren would be eligible for free lunch. The upper limit of the price would be set at a thousand 80 euros of the monthly income of the three - month - old family, 540 per parent, or 360 per member. In a single family, the income limit for parents would be EUR 720. According to the methodology of the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, which is also a European methodology, the current poverty threshold in Slovenia amounts to €593 per equivalent household member. If we raised the price, as we suggest, to EUR 540, this would mean that we bring it closer to the threshold of poverty, but we still would not fully reach it. We are convinced that censorship needs to be lifted, as the current situation in this area is unsustainable. The justification for free lunch depends largely on the good will of the municipalities, primary schools, humanitarian and charitable organisations. Therefore, children in Slovenia are not given equal treatment in any way. Some municipalities, such as the Municipality of Maribor, have even decided to raise the price and the difference for children who are not allowed to have lunch in school, from their own budget. Some primary schools have even set up specific funds from which they provide funds for the payment of these lunches. There are a lot of charities and humanitarian organizations all over Slovenia, such as the one that invited us to make the marriage, Friday for smiles that make sure that children from materially weaker families can even come to lunch. Such an arrangement is unsustainable. Free school lunches for all children living below the poverty line should absolutely be provided by every country considered to be social. In our view, it is unacceptable that the consequences of wrong policies go so deep that we have hungry children in schools. Although the country, for example, fully subsidises the luncheon for 47% of the students, it is quite the opposite for lunches. Only those children living in such materially disadvantaged families get lunch that their income is less than €180 per member. At the same time, the level of poverty in the country is still growing, and we are pleased that poverty and the growing social pressures are slowly becoming aware of both the government and the competent ministry; and that this time the government's opinion is positive, despite the opposition's proposal. From the day we're with the Mags. Miriam Bon Klanjšček has tabled this bill, and to this day we have received countless letters of support from the National Assembly. The proposal was supported by a number of individuals, primary schools, humanitarian and charitable societies, which clearly shows that this is a really pressing issue that needs to be addressed before the start of the new school year. Given the broad support of the public and the fact that we sent the proposal before the submission to all the parliamentary groups and discussed it with them, and none of them were extremely opposed to it, we are counting on a constructive debate and support for this law, which is absolutely necessary today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u91	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Minister for Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities of Dr Anji Kopač Mrak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is aware of the importance of adequate nutrition for children, so we support all efforts to ensure a healthy school diet for as many children as possible, especially children from socio-economically disadvantaged families. We believe that the educational institutions are the environments that can affect eating habits and the health of the entire population of children and adolescents because this is important. We believe that school-food accessibility must be ensured regardless of the social situation of children's families in schools. The current law on the exercise of rights from public funds, which defines the right to grant a meal, provides that the subsidy belongs to those pupils who are regularly educated, are registered for lunch and where the monthly income per person does not exceed 53% of the net average wage in Slovenia. The subsidy for lunches belongs to pupils who attend regular school and are registered for lunch and where the monthly income per person does not exceed only 18% of the net average wage in Slovenia. The government agrees with the bill's proposer that the current legislation is not appropriate, as only those students whose family has income per person of around €180 per month are entitled to the subsidy of lunch, and this represents approximately 16 000 500 children. The price for subsidies is too low, the data of the UNICEF report and the report of the Institute of Social Protection of the Republic of Slovenia are also noted. Both reports state that in Slovenia there is an increasing number of poor children or families with children. The government is therefore not opposed to extending a range of beneficiaries to a lunch subsidy in primary school, but we note that the model proposed by the United Left should be examined primarily in terms of the implementation of social justice and financial sustainability. As a result, more subsidies would have more applications for lunch, not only financial consequences, but also the issue of human and technical capacity. It should also be stressed that the budget for 2016 and 2017 has not yet been adopted and that the financial capacity and complexity of the implementation of the changes should also be taken into account as regards the application of the amendments. The Government considers that different models of partial food subsidy should be examined in relation to income classes and possible gradual expansion of the beneficiary circle. Accordingly, the Government will prepare appropriate amendments on the procedure for the adoption of the law, with the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, which is the holder of the Law on the exercise of rights from public resources, but the field of school nutrition is within the competence of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, so both ministries are present for today's consideration. As a whole, however, the government is committed to finding solutions that will improve access to lunch in primary schools for our pupils and students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u93	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Ms Erika Dekleva will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u94	Mr. Chairman, all present! In the SMC Group, we are aware that the well-being of children and their well-being and the optimal condition for learning is the basic condition for social development. The proposal for a law amending the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds provides for an extension of the range of beneficiaries to a subsidised lunch in primary schools and substantiates why this is absolutely necessary. Data from the past few years show that the child’s distress is increasing, and so is the feeling of parental infirmities. In 2013 and 2014, the number of beneficiaries of the child allowance increased by a bad thousand beneficiaries, increasing from a good 237 000 to 238 000. The aim of maintaining the wider accessibility of school meals, ensuring it for the majority regardless of the social situation of the individual and thereby raising the price for free lunch in primary school is common to all of us. Currently, the current school food subsidy scheme sets the price for free student lunch at 18% of the net average wage in Slovenia per family member or 1st income class for the child supplement. This is set at around €180 per family member per month. In the SMC Group, we are aware that this limit is very low, because if we illustrate with data as the bill-maker did, in the case of a three-member family, this means that the ceiling on the income of the entire family reaches about EUR 540, which amounts to EUR 270 per parent. The bill foresees an increase in the price from 18% to 36% of the net average wage in Slovenia. The proposed amendment would thus allow access to a free or subsidised lunch without doubt to a larger group of students from families where parents cannot cover the costs of school lunch due to a weak economic and social situation. In this way, the subsidised lunch would also be provided to all those in the second and third income classes for the child supplement. The proposed amendment would extend the range of beneficiaries from the current 16 000 600 to 53 000 pupils, which certainly means improving the quality of life for a large number of children in school. As the government has said in its opinion, we must also point out in the SMC Group the consequences of a bill proposal that may have on public spending, even though we all agree that extending the range of beneficiaries to lunch subsidies in primary school is necessary. The solution envisaged in the bill would require approximately €15.5 million of additional appropriations at the annual level. In terms of financial sustainability, we also understand in our parliamentary group the warnings from governments that different models of partial food subsidy should be considered in this title in relation to income classes or the possibility of partial subsidisation of the costs of lunch. In addition, it is recalled that consideration is also needed regarding the gradual introduction of the right to subsidised nutrition in relation to the time-limits for application for each income class. The government also points to the cost aspect of implementing the adoption of the novel, which we agree with, and which relates to other costs. The introduction of the novel will undoubtedly also bring a larger number of applications for lunch. As a result, all schools in terms of personnel and technical capacity, which will be brought into force by a large number of lunch applications, will have to be adjusted accordingly, which will certainly have to be taken into account when determining the date of entry into force of the proposal. Discussions on school diets always lead us to the different topics involved – data on the tonnes of discarded food in primary schools and kindergartens, which also talk about the millions of purchase costs and related losses due to the latter, the ratio of an individual to food, the number of diet meals in schools and so on. There is likely to be a lot of talk on the topics mentioned below, but it should be noted that none of this must and cannot destroy or reduce our efforts to extend the range of beneficiaries to subsidised lunches in primary schools. Since we are all committed to the same goal, we believe that today we will unanimously confirm that the law is appropriate for further consideration. By ensuring the purpose of improving the social situation of children, we will support the proposal of the Modern Centre Party in the Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, welcome! Unfortunately, the rate of poverty in Slovenia is rising as there were already 291,000 people below the poverty threshold in 2014. Household consumption also fell again in 2014. Given the data just mentioned and adding a high number of unemployed persons to it, we can rightly conclude that the standard of living and the quality of life in Slovenia is declining. Of course, we want the opposite. We want the well-being and the quality of life of all citizens and citizens. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that prosperity can only be achieved by promoting economic activity, by successfully operating the Slovenian economy and by opening up new jobs in the private sector. Unfortunately, the law before us will not bring about any improvement in this area. The proposed law only solves problems in the short term for our socially disadvantaged families and especially their youngest, who are certainly not to blame for the situation in Slovenia. We would also like to see an increase in the price for a subsidised school lunch from 18% to 36% would not be necessary; that the payment of a lunch due to a higher standard of families would not be an issue to deal with here today. We would like to talk today about a proposal for a law that would solve the situation in the long term in which our citizens are living; a proposal for a law that would talk about the burden of the economy or the burden of wage taxation. But it's not like that. The bill before us today changes the price for a subsidised lunch from 18% to 36% of the average monthly income per family member. This means that those in the second and third income classes will also benefit from the subsidised lunch. Children are our greatest wealth, our future, and if anyone, then they are absolutely nothing to blame for the situation they are in. And since all children truly deserve a decent and warm lunch, in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal for a law amending the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds at first reading and thus give the possibility for the law to be dealt with in more detail on the home committee and to determine its actual eligibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! Allow me to brief you on the reasons why all Members of the Desus Group will support the proposal for a law amending the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds. Surely the saddest stories are those that hurt children in all their directness and cruelty. Without exception, they must shake each one of us, encourage us to think and act immediately. I'm not going to talk here about hungry children in Africa, about hungry children in Romania, because someone might think it's unknowingly far away, but of course it's not. A part of this cruel reality about hungry children has begun to linger in our daily life in the space of our country in recent years. The fact that our children are hungry too can no longer be hidden. Slovenia ranks 26th from 41 OECD Member States, which puts us at the bottom of the children's poverty scale. This assessment was about ranking countries in view of the change in child poverty during the recession. Today, almost 300,000 people live below the poverty threshold in Slovenia, of which 55,000 are children. In the last four years alone, 7,000 children have been subjected to poverty. The numbers don't tell a lot of people anything. Many and all, however, tell the children’s daily stories about how he squeezes them in his stomach because they are hungry. Or the fact that the baby didn't like to eat, because then the brother wouldn't have anything to eat. Or that he couldn't go on a trip because he couldn't bring a sandwich and juice with him. The Constitution says we're a social state. Children enjoy special protection and care. This, in addition to the country, is primarily the responsibility of parents, local communities, the state, society as a whole. An effective and fair system of social assistance is the main instrument that must ensure adequate protection for those who cannot take care of themselves and those responsible for others without their guilt. In this case, the focus is our children. Our current social legislation is relatively young and the fact is that it was emerging and changing even at a time when we were experiencing a deep financial and economic crisis. It was designed to a large extent in the light of the elimination of abuse, which is nothing wrong with it. However, the establishment of criteria or censorships for the acquisition of certain types of rights has already greatly affected many people in the wake of the implementation of the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds and the hardships of many. Colleagues and colleagues, today we have an opportunity to remove some of these pressures, which confront many too many Slovenian children. By approving the amendment of the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds at first reading, we will take an important step forward. We will allow the search for suitable solutions to ensure a more fair way of granting a subsidy for school lunches. In the Desus Group, we are convinced that the current censorship is extremely inappropriate, since the three-member family can only receive EUR 540 in revenue to pay a child a meal in school today. The threshold of the risk of poverty, however, we know how much higher it is. It is also worth noting that we obviously do not have a proper, proper attitude toward food. All too many pounds and tons of food ends up in the trash, and we'll all have to improve together. For illustration – a media article dating from this year's April, in which a study was given on whether children are really hungry at one of Slovenia's primary schools, I will quote: "The findings are surprising. Although more than half of the students in the 5th to 8th grade receive a subsidized meal due to their parents’ financial distress, the school rejected more than 6,000 200 meals or tons and a half of food in a good month. In 30 working days, they'd throw away almost a quarter of all the food." Not only that, my dears. We've thrown a lot of money into the bottomless financial holes. We make up laws that divide us, separate us, divide us into ours and yours. Let's take care of our children this time. Once again, let me make it clear that in the Desus Group we firmly believe that the current price for primary school lunch subsidies is significantly too high and that, given the economic and social situation in our country, there is more than a need for changes, changes to the famous ZUFJ now and immediately. Because of everything that has been said, and especially because we do not care about the children only with words, we do not care only with a kind word, but we want to help with concrete actions, all of us Members of Desus will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Škoberne will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u100	Thank you very much, chairman. Dear Minister, distinguished Secretary of State! But each community is as powerful as it is able to protect its weakest. This is not shown when things are abundant and when times are good, but especially when they are difficult and when it is necessary to save. In Slovenia, we have shown our attitude towards the weakest in the first place mainly with the ZUJF, which has taken away those who have not created the crisis, but which has also done so for the social crisis, which has been a financial and economic crisis. Aid at the birth of a child, free kindergarten for another child, and many other measures of this law and other consequences of the crisis have caused poverty to affect those who are most vulnerable to it — children and marginalized groups. When poverty affects these groups that cannot defend themselves, especially children, this means that not only their personal future is at risk; this means that the essence of the community, its development, its ability to respond to the situation and thus its capacity to respond to a time that is not conducive, and that the situation that demands work, the development and the search for innovative approaches to resolution are at stake. Today, a few years after the start of this crisis, the situation is such that all indicators show that we are in a period of economic growth, which is not only unique, that the incomes and profits of companies have increased, that we have a clear trend in reducing and reducing unemployment in a wide range of jobs, including structural nature, and that the confidence of markets towards the Republic of Slovenia has been restored, which has been so shaken since 2008. We have done much to reassure those from the outside; we have done much to save; but very little has been done to protect those who are most at risk in order to protect this country's ability to respond to the next crisis with an appropriate response. Part of this story is also children, even if one were hungry in Slovenian elementary schools, something that the community understands the importance of being strong as much as protecting the weak can't afford. It is therefore unacceptable that in the Republic of Slovenia the learning process threatens hunger, that the programmes we finance and implement in order to make our economy more competitive in order to be a knowledge society cannot come to terms and are ineffective because children are hungry. The old Slovenian proverb says an empty bag doesn't stand up. Even less empty bags can think, create, and receive what the community offers. It is therefore crucial that this bill's proposal be supported. Social Democrats are still very much in favour of this law, but with serious consideration of how to achieve the proper implementation of the social justice of this measure. For this measure must cover those who need it and allow the sustainability of preventing, at the expense of something as humiliating to the community as ours, as hunger may be, from ever thinking about similar intervention measures. We will work together in the next legislative process to find solutions to ensure the appropriate methods and upgrades of the existing proposal; in particular, we welcome the intention of all parliamentary groups, at least so as to understand that we have been taking a plebiscite on this issue for a long time, to protect the relevant social standard and the development essence of our community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mrs Violeta Tomić will present the position of the Joint Left Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u102	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. There is no secret that in Slovenia, since 2009, when the global economic crisis has affected us, social inequality has increased and the situation of the poorest and middle classes has worsened. As economic forecasts for Slovenia continue to improve since the end of 2013, negative trends in social affairs continue, the social situation continues to deteriorate. Statistics on poverty, quality of life and social security do not lie; trends are increasingly negative. We have already talked a lot about the rise in poverty in this mandate, but the government has not yet taken the most urgent measures to improve the situation. While the government has been doing a lot of work on fiscal rules, privatisation, the deprivation of funds for municipalities, the abolition of the Institute of Free Legal Advice for the Materially Weakest, Tax Relays and All Other Possible, it has somehow left the implementation of the social state principle aside. While the Minister of Finance likes to brag about how much he has saved and how much, and when the government likes to brag about how its measures, austerity of course, are reflected in positive economic growth and the situation in the country is improving; on the other hand, the social pressures of people in Slovenia are increasing every day. The latest report presented by the UNICEF Research Centre reveals the shocking fact that more than 55,000 children live below the poverty threshold in Slovenia. The data published by the Statistical Office also show an increase in poverty, as there are more and more households in Slovenia that are experiencing major problems throughout the month. For 35% of households cannot spend a month with their income. The pressure on NGOs, charities and humanitarian organisations is also increasing as a result of such a negative situation. Due to the lack of human resources and financial resources, they are no longer able to mitigate all of the country's missing policies. The problems that should be addressed and addressed by the social state, including in the area of providing free and warm meals to schools, are increasingly being addressed by precisely charities and humanitarian organisations. If, on the one hand, the State fully subsidises the luncheon for 47% of the students, on the other hand, we cannot ignore the fact that there is a very narrow circle of children entitled to free lunch. Under the current regime, children are dependent on non-systemic measures and emergency assistance provided by individual schools, local communities, non-governmental organisations and humanitarian organisations as regards the possibility of having a free lunch at school. Some schools have set up special social funds to finance lunches for children. In these cases, the extent and regularity of the provision of free lunch depends primarily on whether a school has set up a specific payment fund for lunches for those pupils coming from the most vulnerable and socially disadvantaged families, and also on the number of donors and the amount of funds raised. Some congregations are also aware of the problems. For example, the Municipality of Maribor – a municipality in which the social situation is particularly hot – decided to raise the price for subsidised lunches on its own initiative and the difference was financed from its own budget. Funding for the subsidisation or payment of school lunch bills is also collecting more and more charities and humanitarian organisations, including the Society of Petka for Smile, which is in fact the proponent for the adoption of the proposal that we are considering today. The possibility of children having a free meal is therefore dependent on the good will of the congregations, schools, and charities. Children are in an unequal position because of such non-systemic solutions, since the provision of free lunch at school depends on how the school is organised, how the congregation in which they live is organized, and how active the charitable organizations around them are. Such an arrangement is unacceptable and the subsidisation of school lunches should therefore be regulated at the legal level and for all children equally. Friday's petition for a smile requiring a raise in the price for a subsidised school lunch from 18% to 36% of the net average wage per household member signed by more than 15 000 individuals in one month. It was also supported by charities and humanitarian organisations, including the National Forum of Humanitarian Organisations of Slovenia, which links 94 organisations with the status of the humanitarian organisation. That this area needs to be regulated is also evident from the numerous letters of support we have received since the introduction of the law into the National Assembly. In addition to many individuals, the proposal has also been supported by a number of organisations from unions of education, education, science and culture to the Union of Friends of the Youth of Slovenia. Of course, support for the proposal also came from elementary schools from all over Slovenia. The proposal for a law amending the Law on the exercise of rights from public resources thus has only one objective: that the State provides all those children who come from families in a difficult socio-material situation with a free hot meal. The proposal thus raises the price for free lunch for students from 18% of the net average wage in the Republic of Slovenia to 36%. The current provision in force of the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds binds the right to a subsidised lunch to the first income class in children's allowance, up to 18 % of the net average wage per household member. The award for entitlement to a subsidised primary school lunch in the first income class is currently set at around €180 per individual family member per month. For a three-member family, this means that the ceiling on the income of the whole family is set at about €540, i.e. around €270 per parent. According to the methodology of the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, which is used to calculate the poverty threshold across the European Union, the current poverty threshold of €593 per equivalent household member is. The determination of the subsidised lunch price at 18 % of the net average wage is therefore strong below the poverty threshold. In Slovenia, currently 10% of primary schoolchildren live in families whose income does not exceed 18%. This means that the rights to a subsidised lunch are granted only to about 16 thousand 500 primary children. It is clear from all of this that the price has been set down firmly too low. The proposal therefore confers a subsidy price of up from 18 % of net salary to 36 %, which means that all those in the 2nd and 3rd income classes will benefit from the subsidised lunch in addition to the 1st income class in the children's allowance. In this context, the 2nd income class means between 18% and 30% of the average monthly income per family member, which means an upper limit of EUR 300 per family member. For a three-member family, the parent and one child, who according to the Statistical Office is also the most common form of family in our country, means a ceiling of €450 per parent. The third income class, representing between 30% and 36% of the average monthly income, represents an upper limit of €80 per month for the same family. So each parent must not earn more than €540. This measure achieves a more fair definition of eligibility for a subsidised lunch, as the amount is fixed at a comparable level as determined by the Statistical Office methodology as a poverty threshold of €593 for a family of three. By amending the law that currently gives free and warm meals to only 16 000 500 children, we will achieve that the right to free school lunch will be given to an additional 28 000 children. In total, 44 000 500 primary schoolchildren will be eligible for free lunch. If we do not want to see in the media the sad stories about beeping alarms that point out that a child does not have a paid lunch, that children whose parents are unable to settle the school lunch counters are excluded from the kind in the dining room and teachers' stories that some children come to school so hungry that they are barely satisfied, this law should be adopted as soon as possible and ensured that it will be implemented before the start of the new school year. The fact is that children are the most vulnerable during primary education and are particularly marked by branding because of their poor material situation. Children are not allowed to be targets of ridicule, stabbing or other forms of peer-to-peer violence due to unpaid school feeding. The State should pay particular attention to the provision of circumstances affecting the psychophysical situation of children in education. Proper nutrition is certainly one of them. We are pleased that the government is aware of this and that the proposal for a law has been supported. We sincerely hope that the proposal will also be supported by the coalition. In the United Left we will support the law. The fact that we have hungry children in Slovenia in basic schools in 2015 is unacceptable, unacceptable and certainly contrary to the principle of social state as enshrined in the Constitution. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is a matter of children, indeed, this time, so I expect this proposal to be unanimously supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Tonin will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u104	Dear colleagues, it's about the children! That is also why we will support this proposal in New Slovenia. In Slovenia, the subsidy on the full value of lunch belongs to pupils who are regularly trained and who do not exceed 18% of the net average wage per person in the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. EUR 180 per family member per month. The proposers propose that this threshold should be raised to 36%. According to their proposal, all children of families with income of up to €360 per family member per month will be entitled to a full-value state subsidy. I agree with all those who say it is a disaster that we still have hungry children in Slovenia today. It is even more worrying that there are more and more. It is right that we talk about these things and that we are looking for solutions to solve this problem. The bill is such that no one can oppose it, and that is why I do not expect any opposition. For a long time, Members have not received so many letters of support from primary schools, charities and other organisations and people. As I said, Christian Democrats will also support this law. Of course, such a solution to problems should not blind us. We must not solve only the symptoms of our problems, we must deal with problems of origin. We need solutions that will make each of our citizens able to have a job — and such a job with a decent salary so that all of his children can be provided and fed. We Christian Democrats are thinking differently; we are thinking about how to address the causes of poverty and not just alleviate the symptoms of poverty. We therefore put forward five proposals for public hearing yesterday, five measures for a better Slovenia. Among them, let me mention in particular the measure that we have called a social slipper, which will bring about 50 euros in higher wages to those with the lowest income. It is unalterable for us that parents who are employed receive such low wages that they are unable to sustain themselves and their children with dignity. These are today’s true victims of the current system, which we believe is falsely social. Of course, in our proposals we also propose other measures to relieve wages and other benefits, we propose an extension of the income classes, which would also relieve the middle class, and a reduction in the contribution of the Christmas tree and a number of other measures. All the measures we have proposed are designed to leave more money for people and not burden the employer at the same time. A decent payment is also required for good work. It is the duty of the State to provide a framework so that this can also be done. In New Slovenia we call on all parties to step together, critically evaluate our proposals and address the causes of increasing poverty in our country. For we must not allow hungry children to continue walking in our midst. We want political parties to compete with each other in the future, who will offer better measures for more jobs, and not to compete just in terms of who will offer more social assistance, because social assistance is once lost if there are no jobs. However, because problems cannot be solved from tomorrow to tomorrow, even in New Slovenia, as I have already said, we support the proposal for a law that will alleviate the current symptoms of the crisis.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u105	Thank you. Mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček will present the position of the Allied Group of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u106	Thank you. Your Honor! As co-proposer of the bill, I firmly believe that the state of subsidies was unacceptable. Why is it unacceptable? The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia already states in Article 2 that Slovenia is a legal and social state. It's a social state, isn't it? According to the Statistical Office, we are witnessing a worrying positive trend in the growth of the number of children and households living below the poverty line. The risk of poverty is increasing from year to year – in the last six years. Today, the situation is that as many as 35% of all households are such that the month survives only with difficulty. Or, otherwise, one in three households is in such a way that they need help to survive. We would expect it from the State, at least in accordance with Article 2 of the Constitution. Unfortunately, they also need the help of various humanitarian organizations, individuals, societies and associations. Daily we witness the calls of various associations, associations or humanitarian organizations, to these families, to these households, allow these children to spend the month. They don't live, they survive! The government also cites data and research that indicate an alarming increase in the number of poor children. The conclusion is that the government is familiar with the problem, it is monitoring it, you might say, it is studying. And here we can say – but; but from this study things stop, which is unacceptable. We know that all the statistics, all the comparisons, all the research suggests that the number of poor children is increasing. And what does poverty mean? It also means hunger in particular. The number of hungry, malnourished children is increasing. The Society of Petka for Smiles was born just because of hungry children. You can imagine – in 2015 we have hungry children in the middle of Europe, not one or two children. Today, more than $55,000 are children living below the poverty line. Respectable attendance, 55,000 children below the poverty line in 2015 in Slovenia. The bill that we want today to receive the support of all of us is that the price of the subsidy has risen from today's 18% net average salary per family member to 36% net average salary. Today, we all want to find that 360 euros per family member is far too low in terms of social state. For example, a single mother must not earn a minimum wage if the child receives a subsidised lunch. The limit proposed is EUR 1 000 per household. In the case of a family, we are talking about every parent earning a maximum of €540. I don't think that's too much. I am sure that this is a minimum if we want to talk about the social state. We're not talking about lunch today, we're not talking about kindergarten subsidies, we're not talking about other social security services, we're not talking about family helpers. We are not talking about discarded food in our schools, which by the way is rejected by children we are not talking about today. We don't even care about potential human resources problems, because probably schools don't speculate on the number of people who apply for lunch. Today we are talking only about hungry children and about offering these children a full meal a day. We are pleased that the government has acknowledged the need to adequately address the problem presented, but we are convinced that they have had enough time to think and think about solutions. As I have already said, this is the conclusion that the government itself is on the move to admit that it is familiar with all relevant research, statistics and comparisons in this area. There is not much solution here, there is only one solution — and that is what you have before you today. The bill will be supported by our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u107	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr Miha Kordish has the floor to prepare Mrs Vesna Vervega. Here you go, Mr. Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u108	President, thank you very much for your word. In the United Left, we proposed, in cooperation with the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek, raising the price for free school lunch. Following this proposal, the price for a subsidised lunch shall be raised from 18 % of the net salary to 36 % of the net salary. The reason why we brought this proposal to the table is not only of a moral nature; it is not only that in Slovenia in the 21st century it is simply unacceptable that there is such a level of poverty; moreover, it is even more unacceptable that this poverty is known on the diet of children. Some figures from another sphere, from the economic sphere, also testify to this proposal. We know that economic growth in the first quarter of this year amounted to 2.9% of gross auctioned product; we know that last year's economic growth was 2.6% of GDP in 2014, but at the same time we already have a significant surplus in the current balance of payments account. For 2013, for example, this figure represents 6% of GDP and 2.1 billion euros. What does that mean? This means that, in 2013, as a society, as a community, as a national community, we have created 2.1 billion more euros than we have spent. The problem is that these fruits of economic growth, economic recovery, are not enjoyed by the vast majority of citizens and citizens. These fruits of the work do not flow into prosperity, they do not flow into general prosperity, but they are poured into pockets and the richness of the private, much more then from the pockets of the private to the tax havens. We know how these things work. In short, from our point of view, from the perspective of economic recovery, it is time to start working on people's welfare. The best example, the best such entry point is to first take care of those who are really weak in this society and those who are really blameless for any dramatic social situation and poverty that we are witnessing in Slovenia today. These are children, children from deprived families. And that is the reason for this proposal, and that is why we will also support it today. I mean, I hope there is no one among us who would be 15 million euros too much for the children not to be hungry. It would be very unacceptable for a political actor to stand up against it. In the light of the tragedy of poverty, which is of a social nature — this is not a natural phenomenon, it is a deep, deep social problem — but we cannot ask children from disadvantaged families and their lunches questions because of the so-called consolidation of public finances or forced policies from Brussels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mrs Vesna Vervega has the floor to prepare Mr Marijan Pojbič. Mrs. Vervega, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u110	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! According to the views of the groups of Members, we will all support the amendment of this law in this National Assembly; however, I would like to express a few thoughts. I'm going to define the lift of this censorship in two directions. The first is to follow the foundations of the social state and the principles of social justice, and the second is to keep in mind the financial burden of the state budget. Let me take a look at the social fabric first. The economic social situation in society is also reflected in school nutrition data. The number of children enrolled in primary school has increased over the last three school years, while the proportion applied for lunch remains approximately the same over the last three school years. The subsidy to lunch which students and students can enforce is general, for all, equal to two-thirds of the value of the meal granted by the State; and an additional one which, according to the facts found concerning the remuneration of family members, the State may also subsidise. However, the proportion of students who were fully eligible for a subsidised meal was very evident over the last three school years. So it was 27% during the 2011/2012 school year, then decreased by 8% in 2012/2013 and increased to 47.6% in 2013/2014. The proportion of those eligible for the whole lunch subsidy also changed over those years. Currently, in 2013/2014 about 15,000 students received this; in the school year, only 2 000 were received. Where are the reasons for this? The data show that the reasons for the change in the economic and social situation of families and the reduction of income per family member are below the threshold laid down by the conditions for granting the subsidy. On the other hand, a large proportion of those who were no longer eligible for subsidised lunch would need it. I agree with the fact that charities, humanitarian organisations and other NGOs that carry out various actions are not a systemic solution to this problem at the moment and that the State must ensure the nutritional and social safety of children. As we have already heard, the Government is also aware of this problem and is also aware that the provision of circumstances affecting the psychophysical situation of schoolchildren is important for achieving educational and educational objectives. Of course, we also need to understand the other side, the other direction highlighted by the government. The country devotes approximately EUR 300 million per year to children from socially weak families in different forms: children's allowance, scholarships, various forms of subsidies. We must also bear in mind that, should this proposal be introduced, there will be differences in the social situation of children in the first three income classes. Is it socially fair for all to have a hundred percent subsidized lunch, even though the income per family member is different?Oh, my God! Would it make sense to introduce the formula applicable to the subsidisation of snacks in secondary schools? The proposed change will inevitably lead, as we have already heard, to a greater number of kitchen workers, to the provision of a number of different health and other reasons, higher technical capacity in school kitchens. It is therefore right to allow the Government to consider all the options and propose what will be financially and humanely sustainable and where today's proposal will be included. I cannot go beyond the question already mentioned today — waste food. With the Law on the Subsidisation of Student Diet, which was in force until 2010, secondary schools provided one free hot meal a day for all pupils. The analysis showed that 79% of the students benefited from this hot meal, providing 30 million euros from the state budget for this purpose. As one of the major shortcomings, however, an excessive amount of discarded food has proved to be. Today we have already heard data on how much this food is supposed to be in Slovenia every year, about 68 kilograms per person, and we only process it one tenth of this. However, a large proportion of waste food is produced in schools and schools. If the cost of this food were gravely assessed in schools and kindergartens, it could amount to €3.7 million. However, if we add up the costs of energy, water, procurement, this cost would be more than €10 million. The cost of food supply in primary schools and kindergartens is €90 million per year. Data that I don't really know what else to say. It would be good to approach waste or discarded food at the legislative and operational level. Good solutions have already been proposed and are being implemented in many ways. I will conclude with the words of David Jordan, an American scientist mentioned in her letter by one of the principals of primary schools. He says, "The wisdom is that you know what you have to do in the next step; the ability is to know how to do it; but virtue is that you actually do it." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor. Get Mr. Matjaž Hanžek ready. Mr. Pojbich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u112	Mr Vice President, thank you very much for your words. I must start by saying that we will support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party and so will I. At the same time, I must say that I am personally very sad when we deal with such laws and laws in the National Assembly, because we have to resolve social hardships and all that is involved; among other things, we have a warm meal for children in schools. I am convinced that this country should ensure that the parents of these children can pay these meals themselves; rather than enacting legislation here, and thus try to help families to have warm food in schools through some social transfers. I think that this government and this coalition should still be aware of the state in which our country is now. Many times we listen to ministers how great we are, oh and how high we have economic growth and so on. On the other hand, we hear about an increase in the number of those on the verge of survival each day. And I am sure that if we want to solve this problem, we will not solve it with such legislation, but by creating appropriate conditions that will ensure that those who are unemployed, work; and for parents, work and proper pay for their work, with which they will be able to pay their children their own warm meals and save all that is important, pay checks and everything that we listen to here every day in Parliament. If anyone claims to be a social state, he made a big mistake. For me, it is the social state that provides conditions for all citizens and citizens or for the majority to be able to live their lives with dignity. And what's going on here is not a decent life if we have on the one hand a narrow group of privileged mobs that go to Cuba, across borders and so on that they can't spend; on the other hand, a constant group of those who barely survive. I guess I've said the same thing ten times in this House, and I hope someone gets caught up in it. I'm not saying this as an opposition Member, but I'm speaking as Marian Pojbič, as a man who doesn't care what happens to these people. And I ask this coalition and the government, which is to exercise in its own hands at this time, to begin to create conditions so that the economy can function better, that people can work and that people will receive an adequate payment for their work – a payment that will be dignified, that they can survive themselves and their family. This must be the key if we want to get out of this vicious circle; not to go around in this vicious circle and talk about some social stuff all the time. Dear colleagues, I ask you where we're going to take it from, where we're going to pay if we don't create it? I do not know whether we do not understand that we will always not be able to give for social services unless we create, unless we create new jobs, jobs with higher added value. But not more and more people with a minimum wage that can neither survive nor die. Those who say that it is possible to survive with a minimum wage, that you have two children or three, are deeply wrong. This means that something needs to be done in this area, in the output, and we need to do it. And this right now has the task of government and coalition. The opposition will do everything, support all the measures you are going to propose, I guarantee you, without any problem going in this direction. And so please, please, let's start working in this area. And here the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs can do nothing but put out fires. One such law that we adopt today is just that and nothing else. I'm not attacking the minister here, and I'm not attacking the Ministry of Labour and Family because I'm fighting for it, thank God. This time I must commend him for supporting those things when he realizes that some things are not going in the right direction. But I'm talking about the whole government and the coalition. As an opposition Member, I guarantee that I will do everything in my power to follow this path that I am talking about today. Please, everyone in the National Assembly. I think that's the eleventh time I've been doing this in this National Assembly. When it comes to our future together, let's stop sharing. It is clear that we are different parties, we have different views on certain things, but nevertheless those key elements that are necessary for this, and those measures that are necessary for us to move forward, we must step together, regardless of who is who, how is who written, who is in which political party. No matter what, I'm asking you nicely. And in order for me to go back a little bit more specifically to this law, I will read to you some of the things that our citizens and citizens have sent and that have really hurt me, I must say as I read it. One lady wrote: "A change of law is necessary. The shameful, sad, and unworthy man is the financial situation of our young families and, of course, the island. My heart hurts when I follow the story of my children and grandchildren as well as all other children in Slovenia. Fortunately, some grandparents are in a slightly better position, and we help to the best of our ability that children are not hungry every day. We must be aware that we are already financially exhausted. Our other pension pillar and all available resources have mainly gone to support the survival of adult children and grandchildren. Every day I wonder how long we'll be able to; and if not, what will follow?Oh, my God! In addition to the hunger, there is also an inability to pay the loans. Fortunately, I have good, healthy, active, and educated children, but with employment for a shamefully low income or jobless. The current situation is eating them up. For the first time, a change of law is necessary. A significant number of children and parents conceal their plight and despite our efforts to capture them and provide them with at least one meal, they are ashamed to admit that they cannot do so to their children. Similarly, the number of parents unable to pay for lunch is not decreasing, but on the contrary, it is increasing. It is unacceptable that in Slovenia we have hungry children within the school system who cannot afford to pay a warm meal. We call on the National Assembly to adopt the proposed amendment to this law. I believe that the adoption of the law is necessary, as all too many people in Slovenia, who, for various reasons, cannot live a decent life without their own guilt. [[…]] If children are affected, it is the moral duty of all to help them to the best of our ability. As an active citizen, I believe that the adoption of the above-mentioned proposal is necessary. Regardless of what the media are writing and saying, the fact that I meet people who are good parents every day in my neighborhood, and because of the existing censorship, they cannot provide enough food and clothing, let alone participate in various interested communities or give them a holiday. I sincerely hope that in the National Assembly, common sense will prevail and that Members will support the proposed changes." Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Ministry of Respect, I don't think you have anything to add to what I've just read. Each one of us must not only seal his conscience; he must also have a heartache. And I think that this is the moment when we need to be aware that something fundamental needs to be changed in this country. Just borrowing money and putting out fires like this law, which I support, will not bring greater prosperity and reduce the problems in this area of our citizens and citizens, of whom I have read their opinions here today. I call on you to do so – the National Assembly, I also call on the Ministry of Labour and Family to convince the government that it will take appropriate action as regards this law, they have supported this law and, at least, to some extent put out what is to be extinguished. At the same time, at least I expect the government and the coalition to start thinking in the direction I said before to start creating. To begin to create the conditions that our entrepreneurs, craftsmen will start to employ and that those who will be employed will be able to service the functioning of their family with their payment. I think it's our mission, our primary mission. I very much ask that we all know this together in this House and stop playing cats and mice, stop playing red, black, yellow, yellow and I don't know what kind. Let us begin to understand what our tasks are and why we were elected to the National Assembly and at the same time the Government as the executive branch of power. I expect and ask that we all be aware of this together and begin to work in such a way that, in this mandate, people will be much more satisfied than they are now. This depends on the current government and the current coalition. You have the full support of the opposition when it comes to such proposals that will follow this path. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Hanžek has the floor to prepare Mrs Erika Dekleva. Here you go, Mr. Hanzek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Chairman. Today I have to say that I was wrong yesterday. I'm glad I was wrong, at least in today's case. I spoke of those who have compassion for those who do not have compassion; but they have compassion, but they do nothing, because they find many obstacles that prevent them from doing something. Today's speeches by fellow Members and fellow Members prove that, at least today, I was wrong. I hope to be wrong again in the future. Nevertheless, I would return to the conclusion of yesterday, a quote; I have to quote again Mary Wolstonecraft, who wrote nearly 250 years ago that we do not need charity, but justice. It is true that what we accept today is very positive, very good; but it is still a question of charity, not of justice. If we return ten years ago, today GDP per capita is much higher than it was ten years ago; but at the same time we find that we have a much higher proportion of the poor than we had at the time. What does that mean? That only GDP growth does not mean that we all live well. If we look a little further, we'll see why. The inequality has increased. Those who already have everything benefit most from the growth of GDP; the poor are increasingly poor and increasingly fall below the poverty line, however we define it. And that is why I am convinced that a different approach must be taken to the rescue of poverty. Of course, I absolutely support this, I agree, but a bigger step needs to be taken – to reduce the differences in income between people, including employment and the rest. The development of the country is not measured by the share of the rich, but measured by the proportion of the poor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mrs Erika Deklava has the floor to prepare Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. It is sad that in Slovenia we have the School Food Act, that we have the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, that we have many humanitarian organisations and also individuals who like to help, who often help with donations and otherwise; yet in schools many hungry children. Clearly, the problem of school nutrition has not been solved by any policy so far. While the proposal by the United Left is extending the range of beneficiaries to a subsidised lunch, in my opinion, it will not solve this problem in the final stage either; for they are on the wrong side and perhaps even somewhat populist. The fact is that as a country we no longer need subsidies, more social transfers, we need more jobs and a higher standard of people. And therefore there is not enough populism excitement for Mr Pojbič and reading the responses that we have received and, of course, read carefully all; much more is needed. I personally believe the government knows what it's doing. Maybe not as fast as we all want, but persistently and well. The first results are actually already here. All of this is not a good reason to let things go when they are; although it is a matter of putting out the fire, we must do something. I agree with everyone who said that it is unacceptable to have children in schools whose parents simply do not have enough funds to pay for lunch or school meals. In view of the many school responses we have received in these days, these are not so few. If we go on a concrete case, it will be easier to imagine — if two parents in the family, both unemployed, receive cash social assistance and spend one child and, of course, receive a child’s allowance, thus already exceeding the subsidy lunch price. It may not be necessary to point out that in Slovenia money social assistance and child allowances are not so high that people can live with it with dignity. In fact, the lunch subsidy is the only social transfer in Slovenia that is intended exclusively for the child and cannot be spent in any other way; it is therefore right to change the criteria or increase the price and thus allow a wider range of students a subsidised lunch. I am aware that such a solution will require or will need to be redistributed. And that's not as easy as it sounds, because that means we're going to have to take something from someone to get this item up. But it is true that it may not always be necessary to burden the budget, although this is the easiest. I believe that the problems can be tackled in an integrated, systematic, innovative way, and most of all together. Here I am referring to school management, social work centres, local policy, which is the founder of schools, and also to the government. Unfortunately, I do not believe that we would have helped proposals, as was the case yesterday from Nova Slovenije. I am more afraid that all of this would significantly ruin the state budget and then even less money for subsidies and various social transfers. Speaking of hungry children, it may not be possible to ignore the fact that, on the one hand, tons of nutritious food actually ends up in garbage, namely 260 thousand tons a year in Slovenia; on the other hand, we have 300,000 people living below the poverty line – and that is absurd. If we recalculate this a little bit, we can find that we could get more than two kilograms of food per day for each individual. We know that France has recognized that it has also reacted appropriately, legally. The law imposed on wholesalers, restaurants, and everyone else that food that was not sold and still has a useful deadline should be dedicated or donated for humanitarian purposes, and they also had to take measures to reduce and prevent food from ending up in the trash. With us, however, everything is somehow based on communication between humanitarian organisations and traders, on charity concerts and other actions, which are of course always welcome; however, there is no solution. I will support the bill myself in the first round of reading. I hope that the other government will draw up appropriate solutions in terms of fairness and accessibility. But let me conclude, like the headmistress at the Bezovica School in Ljubljana, who believes that such a change is not a cost of the state, but a contribution to its future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor to prepare Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik. Mrs. Dimic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! To talk about hungry children in the Republic of Slovenia, in our independent country, it seems to me that it has become some sort of ideology. We are talking about these hungry people from 2012 until today; we have not yet eliminated this in the country. We're still talking. We Christian Democrats have said what we think about these matters, and we have also said what the state must do to make it less and less. Easy – lower taxes, simple procedures and an open economy. People will have wages that will be worthy of human life, dignity. These parents, believe me, want to pay bills to their children in kindergarten, in school, and also in meals, and also to stay at home so that they can cook some more afternoons or for dinner. In short, raising the threshold and increasing the number of children is a step in the right direction, but I am not sure that we are going in the right direction. The talk was about how we are a dispersed country in Slovenia. I have the data here, the OECD 2013 source, which says that Slovenia is already the least socially dispersed country among all developed countries. The level of inequality is smaller, income differences are the least; we are already saying how bad things are in Slovenia, what big differences there are. Of course, speaking here, I personally advocate the same distribution of goods, which does not mean that someone who has the will to have a job that has a purpose would not have a little more, but that it is necessary to take care of those who have the least. We need to be very careful here, how and what we give and what we say. I am sure that you have all read the Commission's Staff Working Document, which was discussed on the European Affairs Committee, Report on the State of Slovenia 2015. On page 65, Social questions: "Poverty and social exclusion continued to increase in 2013. Slovenia has thus moved further away from its poverty and social exclusion target. The number of people at risk of this poverty or social exclusion has increased and reached 410 000 in 2013, much above the goal of Slovenia, which was some 320 thousand. While the rate of poverty remains below the average of the European Union, it has steadily deteriorated since 2009. Since 2009. The question that some parents would probably ask Members and the government is why. Once again, in New Slovenia, we stress that a solid payment for a good job saves poverty in this country and that the government has to do everything to enable people to support their families and their children with their hands. Once again, lower taxes, simple procedures and an open economy. It was mentioned that something New Slovenia proposed yesterday. Yes, New Slovenia proposed yesterday a package of tax legislation that would make the business environment so good that it would be comparable to the European environment and which would be an attractive business environment as it is in Germany, where the current unemployment rate in Europe is the lowest. That's all we wanted. I mean, if you want to do the same good to this country so that this package of tax legislation should also tackle coalition parties with all four of them, I would say man, and realize that. Because we want to create an environment that has enabled people to survive with dignity. And yet perhaps I look forward to another debate on the subject of poverty ideologically. On the subject of poverty. We are now talking about the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, about the raising of the Census class for the award of lunches to some other pay graders. But we must not forget poverty and social exclusion.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irena Grošelj Kosnik has the floor. Get Mrs. Janja Slug ready. Here you go, Mrs. Kosnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u120	Dear President, respectable to both ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. This proposal for a law on changes in the enforcement of rights from public funds significantly expands the number of eligible children to lunch in primary schools. From now on, when he receives a free lunch of about 16 thousand 500, the child would receive a lunch of about 50,000 children after this proposal. I think this is the right step, a good step in the right direction, because in this way we create more equal opportunities for all primary schoolchildren under basic living conditions. I also think that this is a real step in the sense that the consequences of these children living in materially disadvantaged families are better managed. But children cannot influence and can't change these circumstances because they are forced to share the fate of their family and the social environment. The Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Labour and the Family are already working closely as they prepare additions and variants to this proposal in the sense that they will be linked to the income class and the amount of the subsidy, so that this subsidy will come into the right hands to be targeted. I also believe that this measure should be placed in a timely manner so that schools can prepare themselves logistically, organisationally and technically for a larger number of meals. I would also like to point out the importance of non-governmental organisations dealing with this, that they had a lot of merit in addressing these proposals and also in opening up this problem. I want such good cooperation in the future. However, not only will I talk about lack and deprivation, I will make some more encouraging comparisons with the European Union, which are in force for 2013. This year, the poverty risk rate in us was 14.5%, the average in the European Union was 16.6%; the housing deficit was 3.3%, 3.9 in the European Union. Satisfaction with life has been assessed by number 83 and 80 in the European Union. Just so much for a possible little more optimistic view of our country. However, I support, and I am sure that this proposal must go into further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Minister Anja Kopač Dark asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! I am pleased that today this is a topic that we are all discussing very similarly and we are aware of the shared responsibility to put things differently. This agreement may be highlighted in the debate, which is that we are all aware that only new jobs, especially quality jobs, can be solved; that we have an economy that has higher added value to be a gross domestic product, as Mr Hanžek has pointed out, but that we are all living better. On the other hand, it is true that if we look at Gini's coefficient of income differences in society, we are not assets; I stress that we are one of the more egalitarian societies within the OECD. We are the least diversified society, if we say so in terms of income, once again needs to be stressed. That's all the facts. Unfortunately, though, if we look at the average salary in our country, it is what it is. If we look at the proportion of people on minimum wage, the figure is much lower today than it was another year ago. Today, when we talk about minimum wage, we're talking about about about 38 thousand people, we were talking about 47, 48 thousand a year ago. Nevertheless, economic growth is in place, people deserve better, and even the numbers for unemployed registered persons are still better than they were. We started in 2013 with 124 000; today, I think we will end up with 110 000. Absolutely still too much, but things are going better; of course for all those who are still among the unemployed, too slowly. And I agree, for all those children who live in families with difficulties that parents cannot afford to pay for lunch, that discussing what it means from the implementation point of view, what social justice is for them – this means little fighting. Unfortunately, this aspect must also be taken into account. If it were just me or probably some of them, you'd have brought things in yesterday. However, I am pleased to say that at the initiative of my party of the Social Democrats, when that budget was adopted in 2012, we have provided additional means that the lunch has been saved; because we had a similar problem and unfortunately with lunches, lunches have fallen out of the system of changes at the time. And when the United Left, together with ZaAB, tabled this amendment to the law, our position was to absolutely provide support, to agree on a way to implement it, because it was also our wish, also enshrined in the coalition agreement. We're aware of the problems. Clearly, though, it is sad that we need to find resources within our own resources. It is my job, above all, to look where it is possible; knowing how much social resources have been cut and how many arguments and justifications there are for every million euro to be provided, because we are in the reality in which we are. We can probably talk, and the United Left thinks fiscal consolidation isn't important enough to overdo it. The fact is that what is now happening in Europe is important, and it is also important — although for people living in distress — the interest rate. All of these are some facts that do not have a role to play in their lives and that they have at the macro level of the country. The Ministry of Finance is the one that puts us in these frameworks over and over again. We who deal with people's pressures look again every day for opportunities within these frameworks to dig up, find and provide funds. I'm glad there have been some changes, though. If you remember, we adopted amendments to the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds in November 2013 which significantly increased the scope of these grants; then we ensured that extraordinary financial social assistance is no longer taken into account. We have provided higher child support and cash social assistance for single parent families, and other changes have been made. In short, we're trying to change things. If I had an ideal baton, I'd do a lot faster, but in the given circumstances, we're trying to do what's possible at the Ministry. In this case, too, we sat down immediately with the school and promised that in the framework of the 2016 and 2017 budgets we will also try to provide these funds together; because in the end it is not about which resort is competent, but about helping people. There may be another point that has been raised in the debate, which must also be made clear. Tax reform is important, but it must be, unfortunately, because I know you do not like to hear the word integrity; but there must be calculations here at the back. Why? See, with taxes and contributions, with contributions in particular, we provide resources for the pension, health allowance. You know the pressures, the facts. Previously you discussed some proposal for changes within the pension system for one category, it doesn't matter which. The fact is that these contributions provide resources so that an increasing proportion of the elderly who are retired can receive a pension. And it is necessary to balance all interests, the need for higher net salaries, of course, we all agree; on the other hand, to provide a pension allowance, a functional, health allowance and to calculate the income classes that are now likely to be too gradual and rapidly falling. I will also try, in this reform, to somehow focus on redistributing these burdens, burdening the work and burdening capital and assets more. We are, even if we are comparatively looking, a country that has more burdensome labour costs and less capital and assets. There's gonna have to be a solution in here. However, for the first time, I will also make a comprehensive connection between the income classes, including the classes we have in the social field, because it must not happen that someone is income-generating, means that they get 2 euros more. And then, because there is no connection to the social scale, that means that in the end, someone who has less than 10 euros gets significantly less code. It is important to look more easily at how incomes are dealt with in the field of subsidies and various social transfers, what people get to look at the whole and, together, to ensure a comparable federal level of income, because this will also make poverty more effective. There will be no evidence that some are not worth doing, because it is better to be home, get a lower salary, because then you get higher transfers. Here inside you will have to find and calculate the most optimal option. The fact is, what is limiting us is fiscal consolidation and Mrs Dimic has also made a good point of the report. We, too, in the European framework, at the EESC, which is our parent body, all the time that the debate on this, underline the importance that all the objectives that are equivalent cannot be fiscal consolidation the only objective that is sang, must be seen in the light of one of the objectives of Europe 2020, which is also the reduction of absolute poverty within the Member States. And here within we need to ensure greater equality of different policies. The problem is that at the level of Europe, our common transnational creations, social policy is completely outside the scope of competence and that it is within the sole competences of national states; this is of course not a guarantee if you are talking about economic policy, fiscal consolidation at the level of the European Union, while social policies are only at the level of individual Member States. This does not guarantee the equal opportunities and strength of individual policies, so in this context, an increasingly loud group of Member States is trying, unfortunately unsuccessfully, to put social policy at the level of policy that is relevant at the level of the European Union, which is also our joint creation, our common country. These are the problems of the European Union, and the fact is that this bill will allow us to deal with the difficulties of children – and this is very important – but we will not eliminate poverty. Unfortunately, poverty is a phenomenon of modern society, but different countries with different redistributions are well and effectively faced with it. I would like Slovenia to be even more successful at this. Although we have to say, and I know that everyone who talks about statistics is saying, statistics – anything can always be done. But the fact is that, in the comparative methodology used for all European countries, Slovenia is not among the worst countries. Slovenia is at the risk of poverty among countries facing this issue more effectively. The European Commission also says on analyses that social transfers, social transfers policy are among the more effective in terms of how much GDP we devote to the degree of poverty risk we have. Of course, this does not mean anything to those who do not have children today who face poverty. But there are facts that don't matter that we don't think it's just black. I believe you must expect in the next reading of the second reading of the amendment by the Government. Together with the Ministry of Education, Education and Sport, we will ensure and make sure that we do our utmost to ensure that these changes are implemented as quickly as possible and that they also reach the widest possible range of beneficiaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mrs Janja Sluga has the floor to prepare Mrs Violeta Tomić. Here you go, Lady Servant.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u124	Thank you so much for saying that. I am pleased that we have been so united on this proposal and that we agree that it is necessary to support it. I am also pleased with what the Minister has said. In fact, since we have been in this National Assembly, our Group has also noted that the greatest difficulties have arisen in linking individual ministries between each other. I welcome this step so that they can connect and find some solutions that will help resolve this issue. A child living below the poverty line has found that there is more and more, and this proposal will not solve this; but there is a measure that will definitely help them in their daily lives. For children, diet, daily, is called diversity and also some warm meal, a condition for their health, for their good development. This is, as we say, an investment in our common future. I absolutely agree with this proposal. It has also been pointed out that it could happen that with some 16 thousand 600 students today receiving lunch, they would come to 53,000, which of course means some technical and personnel problems. I expect that the ministries will also come together in this area and find appropriate solutions. Perhaps there are also some of these concerns that were expressed when I went to look at the amount of income per class for children’s allowances, and the difference between grade 1 and grade 3 is essential. The third income class is twice as high as income, so it may also seem reasonable for me to introduce a certain progression, a percentage that would gradually increase this percentage. Certainly, in all respects, I support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mrs Violeta Tomić has the floor to prepare Mr Janko Weber. Here you go, Mrs. Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. I am pleased that we have become so united around this issue and that the concerns we are expressing here are more technical in nature. But my debate would touch on certain opinions that I have heard today. I agree with the debaters that a more permanent solution is in new jobs. I absolutely agree, but this is the long-term desire of all of us, and by that time we would have taken care of our most vulnerable members of society and provided them with a warm and quality daily meal. It is also the only form of assistance that goes directly to the child and to no one else. No one can spend this on a child, as we know, for a child's allowance and other social transfers that are intended for the child, I cannot say that this is not the other necessary thing; and for a diet that is usually gone. The other thing that is is, it would also touch the fact that it was obvious to us at one point of populism. It is interesting that we are here to discuss enormously the privatisation of tax registers, the fiscal rule, and, of course, it is not populism when we touch on social issues, but we like to hear such obviouss. It is sad that the government — and not just this one, including all the previous ones — never think about it when it comes to megalomanic investments in various TER 6 and similar that we have experienced. For example, at present it is already 15 to 20 million to investigate whether the new is nuclear in the earthquake area or not. This is a smaller amount, it's 15 million, which would go directly to the diet of children. Next thing we know, there's surplus and discarded food. Of course, food is discarded in schools, we face it, but it has absolutely nothing to do with socially disadvantaged primary schoolchildren. All African children could also be fed discarded food from Europe and, as we know, this is not being done. We live in these times, we're a consumer society, you have a 50% reduction every step of the product if you take two. We know that all these megamarkets are full of food, and instead of sharing it with the poor, it goes to destruction. On the other hand, in primary schools, we have recently heard that such food is also served because of public procurement and because it is sought that the food we receive, as cheap as possible, is sometimes served to children by food, which is already expired and would be good for them to be discarded before they come to the dishes. It's also one piece of theist medal. But we're not gonna solve this problem here and now. However, it could be clear that there would be no discarded food, in primary schools we could make another species, like the genus on Karitas and the Red Cross. And there poor children would wait for the food that remains for their rich schoolmates. Of course we don't want that either. Another word or two about the exploiters we fear are different types of social assistance. Currently, over 18,000 primary schoolchildren are entitled to subsidised food, it is said to be lunch, and this form of assistance benefits 16,000 children; this means that as many as 2,000 children do not take advantage of this form of aid, although it could. Humanitarian workers often say that many times families, even though they are at the social bottom, are kind enough to thank for the help and say, “No, thank you, we have a garden, we have a chicken at home and so on. You know, we are also Slovenians — honest, modest, and honest. But that's not what we're talking about. It is very convenient for recipients of social assistance to throw in the same basket and somehow treat them as exploiters. In short, we all know that children are our future. What future can hungry children draw for us? So let's avoid the fact that in school it happens when a child doesn't have a paid meal, because shame is a terrible thing, and so the little child gets very deeply cut into their soul. Therefore, I am glad that we are united in the need to resolve this problem. I sincerely hope that it will be resolved by September 1st, when those children who cannot afford it will be able to have lunch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u127	Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mr Franc Laj and Mr Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u128	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! When we talk about subsidisation of school meals and lunches, there is very much consensus, we can say, even in the National Assembly, that it is necessary to respond to the social situation of parents and then also to provide warm meals in schools for children in these institutions. On the other hand, we need to know at this point if we are to burden the Ministry of Education with these additional means, which already has so much difficulty in providing all the legal tasks it has, that it also constitutes an intervention in public education funding. The Ministry of Labour, which has also responded and is involved in this project, is welcome. However, I would like to draw my attention to the fact that the Ministry of Finance should also play a significantly more active role in solving this problem, as the assessment, which revolves around some EUR 15 million, is a very small amount for the state budget as a whole. However, if we are talking about the Ministry of Education, Education and Sport or the Ministry of Labour, this intervention is already very sensitive; especially if there is an additional obligation that has not even been planned in the budget. I expect that, however, the Ministry of Finance will also try to make a serious analysis of the implementation of the entire budget and allocate additional funds to the Ministry of Education, so that this law, which we can follow from all these discussions here today, can certainly receive very high support; I hope to say that even the votes of all those who will vote today in the National Assembly will be cast. And why is it important that the Ministry of Finance respond to this question? Not only because the Ministry of Education cannot carry out all the statutory tasks, but also because of the fact that the Ministry of Finance is still proposing certain measures and legislation that will prevent us from having such discussions in the future and adopting such laws as we have today on the agenda. We need to know that the implementing law on the fiscal rule means that we can talk about providing someone with additional rights, including social rights, only when emergency situations arise. Before that, in Slovenia we will not be able to react in the social field and say, we will resolve this. And when we talk today about how many children there are who do not have a guaranteed hot meal or lunch in schools, we have to ask ourselves when the emergency situation will then arise, how many children will have to be hungry, so that we can activate the fiscal rule and say yes, and now we have to inform the European Commission that there has been a derogation in Slovenia, that the social situation is so severe that we have to and we can be in charge of making this situation better. Therefore, it seems really important to me that even today, as we prepare for this debate on the fiscal rule, we realize that when we talk about it, it is not a dry gold balance of public finances and only strictly - as far as we create it, we can spend as much. Yes, but we need to work much more on the revenue side. Here's the key that's connected to the Ministry of Finance again. We have substantially recapitalised our banks and some data indicate that we have recapitalised them even for 2 billion too. I hope that this commission to investigate the operation of banks, which was finally designed, will also come up with some insights that will help us solve the problems that we are facing today. It is not normal for banks not to help the economy by lending in order to create added value to create new jobs, better jobs, as they then invest businesses in development; and this also improves the social status of employees. It is then automatically less pressure on the budget to provide additional funds for social transfers or for subsidisation of school meals and lunches. The fact is, in Slovenia, that our banks do not react to the fact that they do not finance the economy or credit the economies; or if they do, they do so in a significantly more expensive, worse way than foreign banks, which means that we are becoming increasingly dependent on foreign countries. Here we have to ask again, do you think that abroad, foreign capital will be interested in helping Slovenian families, Slovenian children, to improve their social situation? It's very hard to convince them. And I will only briefly recall that at this meeting, the Trade Act was adopted, where we have pointed out that the abolition of the deregulation of the trade profession opens up a new path of capital to achieve significantly lower wages by negotiation than that of 100,000 employees in this system today. When we discussed this issue, it was kind of funny to listen to warnings that the salaries of employees could be reduced and that this was not a serious problem at all, that this would all be resolved in the negotiations and that the payment classes provided in the collective agreements. At the same time, when we have deregulation of professions, we have actually enabled transport to be found, bypassing the minimum wage to be reduced. And with minimum wage, I must reiterate the fact that we heard on the recent visit of the Vice-President of the European Commission, who also came to Parliament and reminded us that the minimum wage in Slovenia is too high. And you almost somehow find yourself with some of the parliamentary groups – yes, that is such a serious question that we have to listen to the European Commission and reduce the minimum wage to be more competitive. So where does this money go from this competitiveness? Certainly because it is private capital, it does not go to the state budget, but it goes to tax havens. Until we have a built-in system that will allow us to obtain a very large share of the funds by taxing those who have money in tax havens, until then we will have a very serious problem in how we can finance school meals, lunches, as well as all the other tasks that we must or at least want to provide as a country in all areas, so that we can be a truly stable, orderly country and that there are no disturbing social images in Slovenia. I think that Slovenia too, according to the knowledge it needs extremely – and it is education that is the system that allows us to maintain this knowledge in the future – needs special attention. I therefore reiterate my view from this point of view that the Ministry of Finance should not only look at the fiscal aspect of how we will close the budget and balance the budget, but also at the substantive aspect of this budget, which is reflected in the programmes and operations of individual departments. This has been significantly under-reported, especially in the field of education. I think that we can all sign this statement if we do not invest in development, if we do not invest in knowledge, then in the future we can only count on being a cheap workforce for someone else in Slovenia. This is certainly not our perspective, and I would like to point out, on this occasion, that both ministries have done a great deal to get support from this law in the National Assembly, but without the Ministry of Finance, this will be Pirov's victory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u129	Mr Franz Laj has the floor to prepare Mr Uroš Prikl and Simon Zajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u130	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear representatives, representatives of the Ministry, dear colleagues and colleagues! The theme is certainly not that we can look forward to, but it also means that I am absolutely opening up this change of law and all these efforts in this direction to correct the situation. However, only – and I am absolutely sure – a competitive national economy and a fair distribution of goods can reduce poverty and in some ways increase social justice. Why did I point that out? I'll try to substantiate it further. Access to healthy food is certainly invaluable for all children. Healthy children are national wealth and mean our competitiveness in the future. That is why I have previously highlighted a competitive economy and a fair distribution, because these are the very foundations on which I see a solution. However, I believe that we will find a socially fair and financially sustainable model in this process. In doing so, I would like to draw attention to the very important things that bind to this model itself. We must monitor absolutely this economic price to be fair and how it is managed by excessive food in these public institutions. It is important that these institutions, schools and kindergartens provide quality raw materials from local care, from which they can also produce healthy food for their children. Here, direct influence is positive. However, the local supply also has indirect and direct public financial effects. If we accelerate local care, it will certainly increase economic growth, increase the power of the economy in our country as a whole, and this will certainly contribute to the absence of such public financial pressure on financing or co-financing of healthy diet for children. I hope that we will all be successful in this matter together and that we will also find appropriate solutions by the next reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u131	Mr Uroš Prikl has the floor to prepare for Mr Simon Zajc and Jan Škoberne.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u132	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! In this debate, I can only enjoy one fact, which is not completely trivial. The fact that the problem of hungry children has united us, opposition and position, left and right, I believe that our thoughts are sincere, that children are no longer allowed and will not grow. The fact is, children in Slovenia are hungry, in the 21st century in Central Europe. That's a worrisome thing to worry about. The concern is that in recent years alone, several thousand children have been placed below the poverty threshold, that the suspicion of sumarum over 50,000 children is below the poverty threshold and could still be listed. A rise from 18% to 36% of the average net wage per household member's head is not a big event. We must act now and at this point. Suma sumarum amounts to between €14m and €15m for the state budget. If the state doesn't find funds here, then I don't think we can do anything more important. For example, let me give the Municipality of Maribor. Of course, all the congregations are murmuring, I will tell them at home how they have financial problems, how they fail to asphalt this and the other sidewalk, how they fail to repair one or the other roof. Maribor is no exception. Moreover, I believe that it is in a worse financial situation than a number of municipalities in Slovenia, but this municipality said that, despite the fact that the budget holes are not able to fix the budget, they cannot close it; children will not be squandered there. And they've self-initiatively dedicated quite a lot of resources to their children's diet. I wish in the future they wouldn't hear from the media the story that kids don't go on trips because they don't have to bring sandwiches and juice on a trip. So that they do not hear the story of how they will not eat, so that other family members, brothers, and sisters will have something to put in their stomachs. I think this has to stop. And that the country must provide these lousy 15 million euros so that it no longer squanders on those most vulnerable. However, I am convinced that children are among the most vulnerable target groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u133	Mr Simon Zajc has the floor to prepare Mr Jan Škoberne and Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u134	Thank you for your word. Hello! I am pleased that the parties to the left and to the right of the Modern Centre can be united in the fact that children are hungry, but not because of their guilt, is wrong and that this needs to be changed. Yes, we have economic growth today, and I hope that we will have it for a very long time. But you know, even when we reduce the number of unemployed, I don't know, say 60,000, we'll still have kids whose parents won't be able to, or very hard to afford a warm meal of their kids at school. That's why it's good and smart to arrange this in an integrated way in the marriage, not to say systemic. In particular, I am pleased that, even though they are from the opposition, they are aware that this problem must also be addressed through financial goggles, that there is a need to find a way that will be justified, which will be financially sustainable. I'm not going to the numbers. There's been a lot of talk about numbers today. We know how many kids need this lunch today, how many more there will be, how much it will cost us. However, I would like to conclude that I am very glad that we have been able to unify today and that we will be united in the future. Of course, when will we be united, if not when it's really about children? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u135	Mr Jan Škoberne has the floor to prepare Mr Tomaž Lisec and Mrs Irena Kotnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u136	Dear Mr. President, Honourable Minister, Secretary of State, Honourable Assembly! Today, we are all quite united around the danger of being in a house of mountains and about being totally inappropriate and degressive for the dignity of people if they are hungry. It's kind of a nice thing to listen to. What is more problematic in some way is that we are not entirely united in the question of why the fire occurred. Isn't this fire, which we're also trying to put out with this bill, something that will happen to us over and over again for a long time, and it's taking its roots out of some measure when we have thoughtfully or thoughtfully decided that the dignity of man is something that will be settled; that we will no longer be victims of negative trends in the crisis or the potential negative trends of certain measures. When it comes to the issue of labour market flexibility, an argument is often used, which is of course legitimate and in one part also holds; that it also depends on the flexibility of the labour market and its regulation, whether an economy can progress, can respond to the crisis and thus respond to the key need to create new jobs, opportunities, added value in order to create some community prosperity and standard. On the other hand, we often forget that part of the fire that we are trying to put out unanimously today with the support of this opposition law is a key part of the problem. Flexibility in the labour market, precarisation, espection, with ZUJF, the closed option of employing young people in the public sector, and similarly, the things that contribute significantly to the fact that children – young families – are, of course, in total today, the suspicions of those who are hungry. That this figure is growing, that the level of risk of poverty in the Republic of Slovenia has increased since 2008. These are not the things that have happened to us; they are a large part of the logical consequences of something that has been accepted as a general necessity; either because of saving or because of preventing foreign markets or because of the feeling that we need to give someone more room for its development, such as to large companies; and at the same time we have forgotten the negative effects that this can have on employees, on the weaker side of the process. It will be interesting to discuss how to resolve the weakest when they are dealing with assignments that are not affected in some way. And the question is whether this potential write-off of some debts does not also mean a rating that would then be counted as a tax base or as an income burden. Will we then understand that we are also putting out or solving a key problem, which is why we happen so that children in primary schools in the Republic of Slovenia can be hungry? The question of whether we will be able to reach agreement on the question of finding money for those 150 euros in Erasmus grants that the student needs to study abroad. When we talk about the Strategy for the Development of the Slovenian Economy and the related urgent internationalisation, it makes sense to us. When it has to be said that we need to provide 150 euros for people to go abroad, to socialize there, to connect networks, on which they can also create later economic relations and participate in some of this process, we often have shared opinions again. And it is often the question of how to develop, finance or organise the public sector — even in recent years — that is very dogmatic. When we say that wages in the public sector need to be reduced indefinitely, the number of teachers, nurses, firefighters, do not pay overtime and similar things, we contribute to the fact that their children can also be hungry. When we say that the minimum wage is something that can be an obstacle to economic growth, which prevents foreign investors from coming to us, we do nothing else or do nothing else – those who defend it – as if you are creating the right conditions and the essence for children to be hungry in Slovenian primary schools. And that is why it is today to listen from all sides to support this intervention law and that it is terrible and terrible that children are hungry; in fact, one living hypocrisis at a time, because this situation did not come from the cloud, did not arise as a result of external intervention, but was the result of decisions made by Slovenian policy in its left or right form. And when trade unions are trying to draft a bill whereby overtime, night work, holiday work will not be included in the minimum wage, it happens to us that we have employers' associations, that we have a part of Slovenian policy that says: No, this will jeopardize our national economy, this threatens growth, this threatens development. At that time, it would be extremely wise to recall this debate, and also to find that it is wrong for the children to be hungry; and that it is also for the children. Because these things are connected. I believe it's funny when I explain it. The fact is, we can put it out, but if we pour oil on the fire, the effort to put it out will also be far too great. The next thing that matters here is the issue of the relationship in general to Slovenian education. The conditions in which Slovenian teachers and teachers, professors, scientific workers work are such that, for the most part, young researchers, young teachers, teachers can't even imagine in their dreams that family creation should go because their jobs are unstable, short-term, subject to constant criticism, and possibly in constant expectation that the next one will really take them along with the institution to the historical dump site; and they will themselves face the existential question of how to survive, eat, pay the tables. Just how to ensure this for a child who cannot defend himself or herself or actively enter the labour market so that he can take care of his or her basic existence at home or abroad. But I imagine when we talk about how not to tickle, but recapitalize Slovenian public education, half of this hall will be on the trenches, because to throw money into some bottomless hole, into something that doesn't make sense, because it's better solved in some private institutions that people should pay for because they create enough with their work to pay for their knowledge. Knowledge is not a good thing to be paid for. Investment in knowledge, a strong education system is something that can prevent us from raising this censorship every 3, 4 years or every budget and being forced to think about these and those fire-fighting measures for these cases. Therefore, the question of what follows the conclusion of this debate, of this legislative procedure, is probably not entirely overstated. Probably the question of what we will do in the Republic of Slovenia with economic democracy. Are we of the opinion that the sharing of profits among employees is necessary? Can measures such as a 35-hour worker ensure the creation of additional jobs? At the same time, there is more time for people to even think about the creation of a family, their new entrepreneurship and similar things. Or we will be satisfied with the next budget by having a peaceful conscience, wash our hands, and Christ will hang on the cross, and for the next 2,000 years we will be wondering who put him there. This is a real question; the fact that we all agree that children must not be hungry is clearly not a problem. We're canceling the ZUJF? I think that would be a great move. The government that introduced it is likely to find counter-arguments; or at least that part of the Members and Members who created it at the time. Today, however, we face the issue of the next steps in particular. And I am actually glad that, in voting on the initiatives that will follow this one, some of them will also be on the side of the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, we will not then listen to arguments that, by stabilising and raising the minimum wage, we will endanger the economy by financing education – it is nice that you are getting your head off – it seems that this is a serious topic – we will not be threatening the stability of the budget and that we will not be wasting our time in some way with the issues we agree on, and we will not interfere with what we really have to resolve. I thank the motioners, on their own behalf, for allowing us to raise an essential question with this law, why and what decisions we make; and why and what decisions, on what basis, we will take in the future. From here on, we will see how firm the coalition commitment is that children will not be hungry; not the coalition commitment of this coalition government and the parties of this government, but the coalition commitment to this issue by all the parties in this national assembly. And I sincerely hope there won't be another question why the hell are you thinking about raising a minimum wage? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u137	Mr Tomaž Lisec has the floor to prepare Mrs Irena Kotnik and Mag. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u138	Thank you, President, for your word. Otherwise, I thought we were at the wrong point, and I watched where I had a national reform programme, because I only hear about public administration, banks, privatisation, education and so on, including democracy, what to bring, but in the end, we just came to be in the so-called school food law. And I would remind my younger colleague that he's in the coalition, that he has every possibility of acting. Today, however, we are talking mostly about the laws proposed by the opposition. And if, in the previous marriage, when we talked about the elimination of wrongs for farmers, at least here we all agree when we extend rights to our children, to our school-bound mostly or increasingly hungry children. And I was just waiting for the ZUJF to show up today. When a colleague spoke before me — you could easily undo it if you had these problems. But this coalition has extended the ZUJF. There's not a lot of words, but there's a little bit of pressure on the buttons for or against. Let me start somewhere in 2007, when my fellow Member Branko Grims was the carrier and the drafter of the law on the subsidisation of the student diet, I myself was a professional co-worker and helped my colleague in this law. What were the words when we introduced at least students — because we had a fairly solid field of student food subsidies earlier — when we tried to provide students with a warm meal. We've been measured by the populists as the pre-election candy we cook at last night, so I like that those who then poured the fertilizer after the proponents, which is the SDS, agree today. I must say that I am probably very happy, also grateful to my colleagues from the United Left and the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek, that they have prepared this law, because it is likely that if they put this law in the SDS with the same text, they would probably have experienced a slightly different story. In short, since I was alone when the student diet subsidy was being prepared, and even when we did or the government prepared the School Diet Act in 2012, I actively participated. I like that we're handling this. Despite that, yes, I come from a party that was in the government that prepared that infamous ZUJF, which also made a border in the field of school nutrition. But if you remember just a few months before the ZUJF — full containers of good food — children throw food away, which at one time the children were no longer hungry when another government was around. Then the ZUJF will come, because we said, okay, if this is too much, and let someone else, at least in 2013 and 2014, take some short-term action, so that things may be a little clearer, that the Public Procurement Act may also be prepared, that schools will have a little more air in this selection of the worst, most expensive food, but the most quality; and once again, the manure by the proponents has been spilled. If the ZUJF comes to the face by the SD Group, I will read it thoroughly, I will be interested to know what will also touch school, student or student diets. I hope that we are talking about food, because I say that it should be primary schools, secondary schools or students, that we are all pursuing the same goal. But look, when we tabled in the SDS Group a few days ago a novel of the Law on Student Food Subsidisation, the media has already attacked us, and what this SDS is about to do. Even if it is a small group of students who are forced to eat at night, and we already know what fate this law will experience. I really want this spirit, which today has been, how young people should be hungry, to provide a warm meal, to be a constant; not some change in terms of whether you are in the coalition or in the opposition, that is, for the daily needs. As I have already said, there was also a lot of talk about the social state in the previous law, when we had regard to the correction or elimination of injustices to farmers, but there was also a lot of talk about the social state, but the coalition committed itself to voting against it. We said there, too, that it is not possible to specify exactly how much funding there will be, but colleagues said mainly of two coalition types – ah, because it is a shame that we are dealing with such a law because we have no financial implications. Here too, the proponents wrote very correctly that the funds in the state budget have not been provided because the 2016 budget has not yet been adopted. However, we know that approximately 15, 16 million will be needed at the annual level. Of course, 15 million, little in the state budget; but sometimes when we adopt some kind of law, we say half a million, is a cry and a cry, how will this be ensured? I really have a lot of hope for the Minister of Finance, the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, and also for the new Minister of Education. However, not at the expense of violating other rights, but at the expense of cutting off some corner to get these 16 million, I think that this budget jackel can be complemented by the end of the year; but not by scaring citizens by how they will have to pay more for electricity, because the government is preparing a regulation, by how they should scare the craftsmen when different florists, printers, and I don't know who is asking whether to work at all or just care about meeting all the conditions. At the end of the year, we will wonder what is more important to our country, what more will it bring — lower taxes that we all pay, higher taxes and higher penalties. I hope that concrete measures, which will come mainly from the Ministry of Finance and also from other ministries, how or where to find these 15 or 16 million euros, will have a concrete basis; but not that they will say yes, yes, we will ensure that we will not be forgotten by the end of 2015 if the government forgets to put in one of the items this proposed amount, which we will obviously not only today, but also at the end of this amendment of the law. If the motioner remembers then he will say - the government, because you have passed the law, we need 16 million, and the cat and mouse will again be hunted by the ministries because it provides this 15 million. In short, I'm a parent, I know, I can't complain, because if the Members are complaining, it's a problem. Lucky for me, I can give my kids more. But I do sometimes admire the parents who report to my office, and when they show me salary receipts, I really wonder where they can afford to feed them and their children. I must say that I also admire a lot of the congregation here when, regardless of the mayor's political party or the majority in the municipal world, they try to make their school work easier somehow through their mechanisms within the municipal budgets. Because we all know that schools establish local communities. And even when I'm talking to the principals, they're most hopeful when they're really going to come into the light of the Public Procurement Act, and they're probably going to give schools a little bit more air than I said before, so that they can breathe themselves; not that there's going to be a dumped price, which then also brings worse and more quality food, that decisive factor. They say that if the correct approach to the Public Procurement Act were to be that the price could probably be even lower due to other administrative and tax measures, on the other hand, it would be better. In short, if I do not go to any field of economics and privatisation, I will remain in the last sentence in the field of education. We see many times in the first lines of the main unionist in the field of education, but I apologize, in this important law, when all members of the National Assembly agree, and I have not observed his voice, at least what I have examined the media. I hope that further discussion or consideration in the National Assembly will also remind himself that he cares not only for teachers but also for parents and children in the educational process; whether we are talking about public or private education. In short, absolute support for this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u139	Mrs. Irena Kotnik has the word to prepare the mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček and representative of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u140	Dear President, distinguished secretary of state, distinguished minister, respected colleague and colleague! Today we talked a lot about this law, the school diet. I agree with my colleagues that this topic has brought us together, but I can say that on the other hand, it has raised a lot of issues that we will have to resolve. I agree with my colleague Webro, who highlighted the link between the ministries, including the Ministry of Finance. I can say that the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Education are already very well involved, at least which is such a debate, because I am also on both committees. Because a lot of things have been said and I wouldn't repeat them, but maybe I would point out just one topic. The question is whether it is fair for students in the 3rd income class to have 100 per cent subsidised lunch price; the same as those in the 1st income class; although we know that income per family member in the third grade is twice as high as that in the 1st grade. It would therefore make sense that the 100% subsidised food for those in the first income class would be 70 % for the second and 40 % for the third income class. But I would touch on one more thing when I listen to all these debates, we always talk about finances, we always come to the end of finance. And I think that not only in this case, but also in other cases, as regards education and the lack of funding; I think it is necessary for us to step together once. Not only is the state thinking about it, but even in schools and kindergartens, the principals approach and together find solutions to save things — not at the expense of children. I'm not going to mention again how much food is thrown away, it's just one thing. But there are also many other things that we could rehash together and find a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u141	The word has magic. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, the representative of the Government and the proposer are to be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Respected and respected! I am pleased that the proposal for a law tabled by my colleague, Luka Mesec, will obviously receive unanimous support. I am also pleased that we still have some feelings about providing a social state. It's really unacceptable for us to have hungry children in school. It is therefore imperative that the law be enforced as soon as possible before the start of the new school year. Once again, I would like to stress the following. It's true that we have a lot of discarded food, most of it right in schools. But, dear colleagues, you forget that this is the food that parents paid for, by no means, for children on the social side. I agree, however, that this is also a major problem, but different species than the one we are addressing with this novel. If we want to keep the young world standing, we need to ensure that they are given the carefree childhood and the circumstances that enable them to develop smoothly. I am sure that appropriate school meals are certainly among them. That is why we need solutions today. In my presentation, I have already said that the Government had enough time for appropriate solutions; unfortunately 55,000 children cannot wait until September 2016 or even September 2017. They are already hungry — June 2015.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u143	The Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs Dr. Anja Kopač Mrak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u144	Thank you for your word, President of the National Assembly. At the conclusion of this debate, perhaps I would like to point out that it is not often that there is such unity and common support in the draft law. Even where the vote is at the end, there is some unity, yet there are not so many words that go in a similar direction. I was pleased to hear these discussions, and I would like to see more of such proposals and such discussions. I think that's what people want. Now, as for the bill, as has already been said, we will do everything by the Government to try to find the means. You know, sometimes it sounds very simple — 15, 16 million, but at the end of the day it's not that simple. But since we are aware of the importance of nutrition, of the good nutrition of our children, we will indeed pull together all our strengths, first of all the departments that are most responsible for this, this is the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport and the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. However, we will also be trying to find this within the entire budget in the Government. In order not to look so black anyway, you need to know that 120 thousand 674 students are registered for lunch, which is 7.80 enrolled students; the fact is that only 16 000 679 students receive the subsidy, which is about 2 000 200 less than those children who are in the 1st grade of the children's allowance and would be entitled to the subsidy. Thus, in fact, the subsidy that they have free lunch receives 9.8% of all enrolled students, which is too little, we agree. It would be good to have a system that we introduced during lunches, we must be aware that in primary school children also have lunch, and there is a subsidy of up to 53%, up to the 3rd grade of the children's supplement. It is also a desire to introduce lunch in a similar way. And here, when we talk about the subsidy, the fact that lunches are not full until the third grade is free lunch, because we also had a lot of free debate in this national assembly. But in the case of lunches, the 1st grade receives a totally free lunch, including lunch as it is; while in the 2nd and 3rd grade the amount of the subsidy falls. So Class 2 gets the amount of the subsidy 70 % of the value of the meal and Class 3 40 % of the value. Since we want to expand the field of eligibility for subsidies, we are calculating how we can ensure this. And also the question of whether it is the most fair that those in the 1st and 3rd classes, because nevertheless it is a significantly different amount of income that the family has; whether it is best that they also have the same amount of subsidy. These are also issues that the ministries are dealing with and are looking for solutions that will be proposed in the context of the second debate. However, the government supports this proposal and we will ensure that these provisions of the law are implemented as quickly as possible within implementing options. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u145	The text is by the proposer Luke Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u146	Mr President, thank you for saying so. I would like to thank all Members and Members, on behalf of the motioners of this Act, for their very constructive debate and for their unanimous support of the law. I am also extremely glad that we have united ourselves on this issue, that we have withdrawn our strength, and that together we have decided not to leave our children hungry. I would like to add only one point to the debate, which is that my comment would go to the interpretation that economic growth is primarily needed, and then there will be no need for social measures such as this. I would say that economic growth and greater GDP alone do not eliminate poverty. We have the richest country in the world, where 50 million people or 20% of the country's population live below the poverty line. Today we have a situation in the world where most or more than 50% of the wealth concentrates in the hands of the richest one percent. What I'm saying is that the state or society always needs redistribution if it wants to eliminate poverty, because capital tends to go to the handful of the richest. We will always need social measures, such as those before us today, if we are to ensure social justice and eradicate the causes of poverty. In Slovenia too, more than 300,000 people today are below the poverty threshold and among them 55,000 children, 2 causes. Of course, the first is the economic crisis, and the second is that the economic crisis was followed by austerity measures that often hit the weakest. This means that the weakest layers of society have been hit in the last seven years. One came from an economy or from an economic crisis; the other from a policy, it is called saving or reducing social expenditure and so on. Therefore, today, when Slovenia has practically the largest growth in the euro area for the fifth quarter of a row, when we produce 6% more as a company than we consume. Last year, Slovenian exports were two billion and one hundred million more than imports. With such economic trends, we no longer have excuses for allowing people in this country to be below the poverty threshold or that children are even hungry in extreme cases. I therefore once again welcome the debate before me and welcome this decision that today, as the National Assembly, as a whole, we have decided to put an end to this and to help children by increasing the possibility of subsidising lunches in schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u147	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Monday, according to the meeting's timetable. 6. 2015 in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 21. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Act on Public Prosecutions in the first defence. The draft law was tabled by a group of 21 Members and Members with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 21 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u148	Thank you very much. We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office. Let me remind you briefly that this marriage is not a special matter and that there is no heavy matter. The law basically and in principle restores the state of appointment of the Attorney General and Prosecutors to the situation we have known before 2011. Slovenia has, and the Government has recognized, an unusual arrangement in this area. We know that the prosecution is what the Constitutional Court has already placed more in the executive branch of power than in the judicial branch of power. We have, today, an organisation so that the Attorney General can appoint the National Assembly alone and exclusively on the proposal of the State Prosecutor's Council or resolve it in the same procedure. In the case of that really constitutionally independent judiciary, this is the Administrative Court, and the situation is different. There the Minister of Justice may, under certain legal conditions, resolve through Parliament, obtain the discharge of the President of the Supreme Court. The situation is therefore quite abnormal, but the following must also be said. This has been the case since 2011. The author of the legislation – then Minister of Justice Aleš Zalar. Why did we table this bill? It probably doesn't have to be explained specifically that the reasons are very clear. Slovenia has a person at the top of the prosecution organisation who should never occupy this position. Never; according to the law. The law clearly establishes a system in which it refers to the 1994 Law on Courts. This law, however, stated that in the judicial function — in this law the analogy was then drawn in the law of the prosecution — could not be chosen by the one who, before 8 April 1990 as a judge as a prosecutor, participated in judicial proceedings in which a judicial decision was later found to have been in violation of human rights after 1990. This condition was never met by Mr Fisher, as he participated in such proceedings as a judge. But marriage is one thing, reality is another. If there is political will in this national assembly, we can also name St. Peter. That's the way it is. This was also the case in 2011, when this State Assembly, at one other majority, with another political structure, the blood count is the same – that is, the left one, appointed Mr Fischer to this position. This gentleman broke the law at this time, as we warned him. He broke the law and this was also definitively and legally determined by the Administrative Court. There is no longer a complaint, not in Slovenia or abroad, this story remains, the fact that it broke the law remains with Mr Aleš Zalar. Furthermore, Mr Fischer's violations have also been identified by other institutes, including the Ministry of Justice, which 16 violations have also been identified by inspection services. Finally, the Anti-Corruption Commission, which published that report, which was written here by the Secretary of State today when it was still an investigator on the Anti-Corruption Commission. This report made it very clear that Mr Fisher, we call him, acted corruptly. Later there was a complaint before the Supreme Court and at this point, but at this stage, the anti-corruption Commission cannot and must not finalise this report. However, it is expected that the same conduct as in the case of Mr Zalar was the case, because in the same case the court cannot decide otherwise, at least in this case not because it is the same material matter. Take this marriage as a coalition to help you that you will not have a person acting unlawfully, who does not respect laws and who has acted corruptly at the head of the prosecution's organization. So take this law as a law that wants to go against you; the law that we want to help you with. What kind of help this will be, and we'll see. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u149	For an introductory explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Dark Staret.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u150	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia considered the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, proposed by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank, at its regular meeting on 17 June this year. The proposed amendments relate to the conditions for the appointment and discharge of the Attorney General and the Heads of State Prosecutors, including the Deputys; however, the proposed amendments in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are largely inconsistent and inadequate. With regard to the latter, I would like to point out a few examples, which is described in more detail in the opinion of the Government, which is an integral part of the material at this point of the agenda. It seems important to me to point out that the current Law on State Prosecutors already contains provisions allowing the discharge of state prosecutors who commit, and is legally established, an offence which is prosecuted under official duty, of any kind, irrespective of the penalty imposed, if the act has been committed in the context of the exercise of a state prosecutor's office. However, in the case of other offences committed outside the exercise of a state prosecutor's office, the conditions are relatively milder or milder and may be resolved if they are offences for which six months' imprisonment or higher sentences are prescribed and so on. In short, this area is regulated and the public interest is protected by the provisions in force in this context, as the applicant also points out. The proposal for a law in the appointment process, with a distinction now valid, does not give any opportunity to discuss and present the Attorney-General when he is running for this important, highest position in the state prosecutor's organisation. The proposed provisions delete these existing provisions, which according to the Government is an absolute step backwards in the standards achieved with applicable laws and the legal regulation of this area in the Republic of Slovenia. The comparative legal aspect of the regulation of this area in comparable countries or within the European Union shows, and this review does not provide a substantive justification for the appropriateness and appropriateness or improvement of the arrangements in force. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, for all the above reasons, estimates that the change in the organisational legislation of the autonomous judicial authorities – including the courts, which are a separate branch of government – requires systematic and more in-depth changes. The government also has this in mind, as is reflected in the current regulatory programme of this government, which will be presented at the end of this year to the National Assembly of novels, which will also include such changes. In particular, we want to ensure that quality standards are as high as possible for quality procedures that will result in quality candidates. And also internal consistency, comparability of the appointment of individual chiefs and responsible officials within the judicial branch as a group of so-called judicial authorities to which the state prosecutor is assigned. We want to see that some of the experiences have also been gained in our comparable countries and that certain standards have already been developed to the extent that they have also been standardised, to regulate this regulation in a comparative manner and to bring it closer to other countries where certain solutions have proved to be effective and good. This matter is in the Government's normative programme. Serious discussions are already taking place with all the building blocks of the judicial system on this subject. We want these solutions to be as coordinated as possible and also somehow adopted in a way that they can be implemented effectively. From this point of view, it seems to us that such changes are actually adopted in the manner envisaged by the Government. For all these reasons, the Government does not support this proposal and considers that, given the content itself and the solution proposed, it is not appropriate for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u151	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, in its name mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u152	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say my best to all of you. The institutions of the European Union have been warning us for years that non-European-acting justice is a key Slovenian development problem. Perhaps someone will say that the prosecution is not part of justice in the narrowest sense, but the European functioning, the successful prosecution is certainly a prerequisite for the proper functioning of justice in its entirety. We all agree here, I hope. This meeting, if Slovenia were a normal, old democratic European state, believe it or not, could never have happened; for a simple reason, because Mr Fischer in a normal European democratic state would never have been able to become the Attorney General. Why not? Because his story is related to many acts adopted by the key institutions of the European Union; and one of them will soon meet again in the National Assembly. This is an act for which, when dealt with in the European Parliament, all Members from Slovenia, including those from the United Kingdom, including all those who then represented left-wing parties from Slovenia in the European Parliament, voted for. It is a resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism. Similarly to the Resolution of the European Council, 1096 and some others, which are important for this case, were also all those from Slovenia who participated in the process. But, you know, but it's the most mangled Slovenian word. The problem is that in Slovenia this is not respected. Just as the article in the Law on Judges has practically never been respected, which provides that those who have been directly involved in trials in which fundamental human rights and freedoms have been demonstrated cannot be elected to a permanent function. This has not been done in practice. Just as it never made sense when it comes to state prosecutors. And that's why it's about saying that there is such a solution, a complete nonsense because it's not being implemented. If it exists, it's just a dead letter on paper. The problem with Slovenia is that such dead letters are large on paper. After all, some acts, not the ones that I have listed because they are not binding, but at least directly not; but some other acts which bind the Constitution themselves directly, are implemented in Slovenia or not. There is much to talk about, and this is often pointed out by the fairs that we have convened because of the problem of justice. Not because we have any thought, I don't know, of some special nature, as is often stressed; but because, ladies and gentlemen, this is a fundamental development issue. If we do not have a European functioning justice, foreign investors are fleeing, such countries are avoided, business partners are looking elsewhere. And there's something even worse. What is happening right now under your government, in this coalition, more than ever – entrepreneurs are fleeing abroad. Slovenian successful companies move their accounts abroad, their people abroad, establish companies abroad, move their seats abroad. This is a process that should be the side of a bell in every normal country. In Slovenia there is hardly any talk about this. I've been alerting this problem for years, when it was time for something to be done. All institutions, the whole country, must be made at least comparable to neighbouring Austria after its operation. You don't have to discover hot water in this loving country. All you have to do is make an effort, and the things that work, I'll take it. With us it is always said that this should be enriched and upgraded with genuine Slovenian knowledge and imagination. Of course, things don't work. [[Incomprehensible]] What's behind them, you know. This is always what Murphy’s Law says — More subtle words in politics hide the most condescending personal interests. And so defend the eternal power of one and the same; the monopolies, whose result is then what we are talking about today. The economy whispers and things don't work. Even because of the bad, sometimes even catastrophic, prosecution. Earlier this afternoon, even one such parliamentary mass was on social issues, where we all agreed that children should be helped to take care of their children, but the key point was just lost. Why is there a lack of money? We once gave it for this purpose when the government of John Janša was and we successfully ran this country. I was a proponent of that marriage, if anyone had forgotten. But, ladies and gentlemen, then the governments of the transition left came and Slovenia went down, and there were even more poor people. And interestingly, then they elected the transition left, of course, under the influence of socialist media. And we had a enchanted spiral. And we are already at the point where the transition left already has a two-thirds majority in Parliament, as has been shown in some of the votes, but we have an economy on the dog. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know what advantage Slovenia has had over the Czech Republic, Poland and the Baltic republics when it comes to the independence of Slovenia. If you look at just yesterday's published scale, Poland is already ahead of us by real purchasing power, according to the real well-being of an individual. The Baltic states, some of them, are ahead of us, the Czech Republic and so on, that I don't even list the others anymore. These are the governments of the Transitional Left, ladies and gentlemen, and the monopolies that we are talking about because in Slovenia this has never been done well. And then the demagogic wins. The socialist demagogy, who then experiences, is a great example of this in Greece, where people are now criticizing the government they have elected, holding their head, raising 30 billion euros in panic from the banks, ladies and gentlemen. [[…]] Do you also want to bring Slovenia into this position?Oh, my God! In the last few days alone, two billion euros have been raised from banks in Greece. But that's if Siriz wins or the United Left or something like that in the country. Since demagogies cannot be ruled, demagogies cannot be eaten, demagogies sound fine; they are not on the spoon; then only cold water is on the spoon. That's the problem with demagogies. And then, when this demagogism is transferred to recruitment, we get some person at the head of the State Attorney's Office, who is then found to have been in violation of positive law in a certain case when some trial was in breach of the law. That there was something that they call an overstatement of authority and even worse. And then a lot of other institutions confirm that, but after all, because a court-martial against which there is no longer any remedy, there is no problem here that anyone would say that anything else is being identified is clear. But then what does the Council of Justice do? Find out that there have been some mistakes and that nothing needs to be done about it. You know, it kind of reminds me of me, like when a really bad cave was discovered, living underage girls and little kids in there, and they said, "Oh, those were some mistakes, let's do other things." Yeah, wait, people of God, where do we live?Oh, my God! These aren't mistakes! The problem given by such a signal, if handled as the Council of Justice has done in this case, is catastrophic. Which means that everyone can do what he wants in this country, in the way he likes, so that some horrage of variants can be done through the procedures provided for in the legislation; but that it can then be avoided at any time by the word against which the Slovenian real power and power is shaken. It is a word that is called responsibility, for there is a catastrophic lack of responsibility in this country. And then it is no wonder that this is how electoral participation falls, as we have seen it in Slovenia. If there is no responsibility, if there is no responsibility in the Attorney General's Office, then where else will there be responsibility in this country? It is not a matter of one institution finding a mistake, but of finding a violation of the law by a court of law with a judicial judgment, finding that inspection, finding that then the executive branch of the authorities, the Ministry of Justice and so on and so on. But to enforce responsibility, but no, that's not. What I have to say is that it's scary about this, but it's that now it's the government's own way of attaching it to it. Because the government says so, huh? Yes, because we respect the purpose of the proposalr. Fine, but we don't get along perfectly well with the formulations, we don't think that's systematic, we'd rather stick our heads in the sand than the ostrich's head in the sand and pretend that there's no problem, but let's just keep it the same, because we don't like the one that proposed this law. Part of it doesn't say, but that's how you read it, it's a translation into Slovenian. If we run the country this way, it's no wonder if such a country doesn't come anywhere. Novelry as some identifying element of this government is a very poor journey not only to this government but to the country as a whole. The state is by law, you will not believe, and also by the Constitution is responsible for the functioning of all social systems. Each minister shall be responsible for the functioning of all the institutions of the State, by law and government as a whole, for coordination and for the situation as a whole. So no one can say that he will avoid taking action on a case. Here, if any of the formulations seem wrong to anyone, it could be altered. The law is appropriate. After all, what we are proposing has already been tested in practice and is comparable to what some other European countries know. It is simply that when the Council of Justice fails to play its role, it is obvious that it is not, and it is logical, why. Because the subordinates decide on their boss who won't mind him. This arrangement is practically already condemned in advance for not being able to work. That is what Mr Zalar, who once suggested, would know; or whether he knew and therefore suggested it. Ask yourself. But that's not even the most important question today. The key question is how the government can afford not to act in such a case. Because this is not only about the fact that there is a person in charge here who has apparently already broken the law, which in normal, as we said, a democratic state could never even be here; it is also about the fact that, say just a few weeks ago, the Constitutional Court gave an unknown slap to the Slovenian public prosecutor's office. And by consensus, ladies and gentlemen, she gave it to me unanimously. What was recorded when the judgment or trial in the case of Patrio was annulled? It stated that the minimum standards of evidence in force in criminal proceedings were not met. This was written down by the Constitutional Court. Do you know what that means?Oh, my God! This means that the prosecution, as a whole, has by no means performed its task, nor has it been by any chance. Moreover, when such an action was brought, the prosecution has in fact acted unlawfully in itself, contrary to the Constitution, that it did not respect human rights, that it did not respect those standards of the Constitution which speak of the right to a fair trial. It stated that it was totally inadmissible, that the Constitutional Court had specifically stressed that in the evidentiary proceedings it combines various elements and then a single conclusion was drawn from this part. If I simplify the entire lawsuit, if anyone wants, I can read it; but, you know, that's something they learn in law school in the first two years. This is a matter that is ultimately based on Roman law, which is based on and the most difficult exam in the first year of law school. And I personally don't understand how these people did law school. I really don't get it. Unless, at some point in time, their work of the profession is no longer valid, but only politics is in place. And if so, then it is also logical that the Attorney General is Mr Fisher, because in this sense the word is in some way the role of the Attorney General to characterise everything that this society is burdening. That there is a relic of socialism, that she does not know for herself whether she is actually in a democratic world or somewhere else, that she prefers her leadership under the red star and the figure of Che Guevara, which is unbridledly celebrated with us. By the way, the man was killing people, women; those who speak as witnesses who survived say that his terror was a special mirage in the eyes when he shot a beautiful girl. By the way, he shut up and persecuted gays, killed them, banned music; and this is the man they celebrate today. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u153	Mr. Grimes, the subject.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u154	As a symbol of freedom. [[…]] Then it is no wonder that we have those at the top of the state prosecutor's office that we have them; because this goes well together, it goes in the same context. The President's warning now goes in the same context, by the way, unless someone notices it. When we talk today about the bill before us, we need to draw attention to something else, and this law, if adopted, will apply by two. It will allow that when the Council of Justice does not do what is normal human logic and, if you want, by positive law it must be done on its part, but if it does not, someone else can do it. In particular, to reach out to the executive branch of power, to have back those rights which, by the way, it also had to this amendment of the law, which Mr Zalar had given at that time. This isn't about something that's never been in the game, but it's been going on for a long time. However, another important point would be to clarify that provision, which had previously been introduced into a law setting out the requirements for a permanent term of office of judges, insofar as such a function could not be seized by someone who had been proven to be involved in the processes under the previous totalitarian regime, in which human rights were gravely violated. And there is something else added, in line with what I have talked about before, which is perfectly self-evident for Europe, except in Slovenia, that those who have been members of the secret service of totalitarian regimes cannot assume such functions on their own, because they have been an integral part, this is the real part of the bicycle of a totalitarian service, and thus, subjectively and objectively, have helped to gross systematic violations of human rights and freedoms of all citizens and citizens. Then it is perfectly logical that no one can assume such a function. Such a function would also be very welcome and beneficial for political hygiene in this national assembly, where everything else is discussed, but not about it. And given the current composition, by the way, allow me to avoid specific names now, because you all know them well. If we have a system somewhere that allows negative human resources selection to be done, then it's a system that doesn't bring responsibility. And if it does not bring responsibility to one of the key functions or key institutions in the country, it is a signal to everyone. Here I do not know if the Council of Justice was aware of its responsibilities, not only in this particular case, far from this, but in principle, for the values that should follow them. Not only in the prosecution, but for the entire social system of Slovenia. This responsibility, because this world has not been carried out, the Council of Prosecutors, is now at the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Nor here does any claim help – it could be better arranged, we will be second, we will be systematic and similar to the flossules that we always listen to, and let this remain as a temporary solution. You know what Churchill said – the most permanent are temporary solutions. The problem is, obviously, things don't want to work out because what they are right now suits someone. Why does it suit him? Because such regulation allows the institutions of this country to be abused; to abuse the prosecution, to abuse justice, to abuse all other institutions of this country. And by the way, the debate that was in the National Assembly a few days ago, when it came to electoral law, due to the disregard of these facts, which I am talking about today, has been resolved, translated into Slovenian, about this: For we know that abuses have occurred, that the Constitutional Court has now broken down, first in the prosecution, then in the court, etc., but now we will make sure that the consequences of future abuses will be irreparable. That's what it sounded like. Because now they were still correctable, which could have affected the Constitutional Court and prevented the worst consequences. This is the reality of this national council. And while that's the case, ladies and gentlemen, we have a problem. The problem is that Slovenia is not a democratic country, but it is not only an ideological problem, as it is often trying to hide itself. The key or most important point of this problem is a developmental issue, ladies and gentlemen, because if I go back to the first sentence I started with; in a country where you do not have a European acting prosecutor where the Attorney General can break the law, even the court decides that there are many other institutions that find irregularities and then the prosecution council; and it is said nothing. Find out that he will do nothing and then even appear one message to the public, political attempts to dismiss the Attorney General's Office and submit and destabilise the prosecution. And Orwell, I think, is smiling right now. Is it possible to write more Orwellian than this? By the way, that was written by the U.S. Attorney's Office. But who is more subordinate to the prosecution than those who once decided in this national council that someone who is so heavily politically burdened could become the Attorney General. This subordination is said to be already here, and it is destabilised by those who insist on such a place, despite the fact that the court and some other institutions have found that they still violated the current legislation, the legal order of the State of Slovenia. That one's destabilizing her. And if this is prevented from being resolved, then this is political obstruction and destabilisation of the system as a whole. So once again, I must say that Orwell is truly proud of those who write such sentences. Political attempts at the discharge of the Attorney General's Office and the subjugation and destabilisation of the Prosecutor's Office, while we have as the Attorney General's Attorney General a man – and this is the responsibility of those who voted for him and defend him today, and who do not want to change the law – who in a normal country, democratic, European countries could never be at the top of the Public Prosecutor's Office. When this man persists and hesitates to do so, of course all those who allow him to do so, if you wish in the State Prosecutor's Council, in the Ministry, in the Government, who does not act, who refuses to support the proposed law, to all those who today oppose this law or at any time, all those who actually destabilise the prosecution. This is a translated reality into Slovenian, but everything else is just an Orwell rumor. And the problem that the general touches on the prosecution, which has been exposed in some way by the Constitutional Court in its judgment, but not only by the prosecution, but also by many others, is that, unfortunately, there is no responsibility in Slovenia before the law; but if it is, something worse – we are not all alike before the law. Because the Orwell principle of the Animal Farm applies — all animals are the same, but we are pigs even more alike than the others. And as long as, ladies and gentlemen, this is the case, as long as any law that in any way would bring things to a European comparable starting point is rejected, Slovenia will suffer developmentally for so long. For so long, we will be overtaken by Poland, Latvia and everything else, which is already on that scale of real purchasing power and the prosperity of the individual ahead of us. Once upon a time, ladies and gentlemen, on the emancipation in which we went and succeeded, we were more than twice ahead of them. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the success of the Governments of the transition left. By the way, don't think it's new under the sun. Only if we don't learn anything from history. Gorenska was three times more developed than neighbouring Austria until World War II, believe it or not. Today it is still in Slovenia somewhere in the middle of the scale. But where Slovenia is against Austria, it is better not to speak. Think about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u155	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Benedict Kopmajer, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u156	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, as many of us are still in the Chamber! Allow me to present to you the position of the Desus Group on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office. The draft law sets out, in particular, the fundamental objectives of ensuring the legality of the conduct of the Heads of State and Deputy Prosecutors, ensuring access to an effective and fair judicial system and establishing measures to sanction the abuse of the situation in the judiciary. We are also committed to these objectives in the Desus Group, but let me start by saying that we believe that the solutions proposed to achieve these objectives are inadequate and incomplete. Of course, the bill was also created in the light of past events regarding the appointment of Boštjan Škrlec as Director-General of the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office. Thus, one of the solutions proposed by this amendment is the return to the regime that was in force before the adoption of the new Public Prosecutor's Act in 2011; that is to say, the appointment and discharge of the Attorney General would be once again more affected by the policy or government. The new law proposes that the Attorney General appoint the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government. We do not support these changes in the Desus Group. Let us ask why we adopted a new law in 2011. It is precisely because of the principle of the division of power that politics cannot interfere with the state's prosecution that prosecutors are not subject to the will of every political authority. In the field of the appointment and discharge of the Attorney General, the State Prosecutor's Office Act, which was adopted in July 2011, strengthened the position of the State Prosecutor's Council as a mixed body in which external legal experts are, as in the Council of Justice. In the Desus Group, we supported the changes at the time, as we assessed that the law brought about the withdrawal of policy from the judiciary's recruitment. Now we'd go back to the previous arrangement. In the Desus Group, we feel that we must not change the law simply because of the individual case. Of course, we do not close our eyes and realize that the last case has shown certain shortcomings in the existing system, but we are convinced that we must not change the law quickly and unwholesomely; this is only because of one case. Not at all in a way that would reintroduce policy in human rights justice. The amendment, as proposed in this paper, could constitute an unconstitutional intervention in the independence of the State Prosecutor's Office. Now to the flossule. This area is very sensitive and requires an in-depth and systematic approach to change. Of course, in the Desus Group, we do not claim that the current regime is ideal; however, we believe that it is necessary to approach changes in this sensitive area in a systematic way. We will therefore vote against the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. At the same time, we expect the Government to prepare as quickly as possible a comprehensive strategy for the development of justice, which will outline the direction of amendments to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, the Law on Courts and the Law on Judicial Service. Although the legislative changes in this area are also foreseen in the Government's regulatory programme of work for 2015. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u157	The word shall be given by the Group of Social Democrats, in its name mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u158	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The aim and solutions presented by the proposed novels of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office (ZDT-1C) are, in our belief, a step backwards. In particular, points relating to procedures, the appointment and discharge of the Attorney General's Office and the heads of state's prosecutions and their deputies. So it's written in the novelty of the law. The first and only and most important objective of the applicants for this novel is to dismiss the Attorney General and publish a call for the appointment of a new Attorney General within two months of the implementation of this Act, taking into account the provisions of this Act, which is linked to a new additional condition. In accordance with Article 111 of the State Prosecutor's Act, we appoint the Attorney-General of the National Assembly on a reasoned proposal from the State Prosecutor's Council and after having obtained the opinion of the Government for six years, with the possibility of extending the appointment. With the proposed solution that the Attorney General appoints the National Assembly on a reasoned proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for a period of six years, with the possibility of re-renewal, they shall return before 2011. Is that a good solution? We don't think so. After the years of the State Prosecutor's Office Act, which was adopted in 2011, questions and controversy related to the recruitment of the highest office of the State Prosecutor's Office are reopened. If there was a conflict between the Minister and the Attorney General at the time of 2009-2011, this is today a conflict between the Attorney General and the largest opposition political party. In fact, we have been monitoring this conflict since the appointment of the Attorney General, which is two-thirds of the six-year term of office of the Attorney General. Dearly respected, in 2011, when we adopted the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, we assessed that it was a matter of creating a self-sustaining, independent, highly professional, a policy of a fully independent state prosecutor's organisation and that the creation of the State Prosecutor's Council was also necessary among all these innovations, both in terms of the composition of the situation, the competence of the State Prosecutor's Council. The 2011 law has also brought an important novelty, namely that the Attorney General prepares and adopts a policy of prosecution, which is a public document. We did not know this until 2011, but it is true that the drafters of the amendment to the Attorney-General's Office are delaying the issuance of the policy of prosecution. We have estimated that this path will allow for the promotion and development of the prosecutorial system, which will be professional and, above all, less dependent on day-to-day policy. In fact, we would like to see that the policy involves as little or nothing as possible in specific matters, especially those in which the highest institutions of public political functions are found. At the same time, we do not want the Social Democrats to be those who try to justify the mistakes of individual authorities or to relieve them of their responsibilities. In fact, we have repeatedly pointed out that, in fact, all holders of the highest public and political functions in the country, if you want authority, must strive for greater expertise, accountability, respect for other moral and ethical standards. This is the only way we will contribute to the reputation of the functions we perform. If we look back at the old magnetograms. There was a lot of controversy over the appointment of the Attorney General's Office. We are confident that today will be exactly the same. The social democrats of the proposed conclusion that the amendment to the State Prosecutor's Act is suitable for further consideration will not be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u159	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, in its name Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u160	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members, as many of you as are still here; honourable Members, as many of us are still here, and the rest of us are present! We could say that it was only a matter of time before the SDS would table a proposal for a law amending the Public Prosecutor's Act. We are discussing the Attorney-General in this mandate at virtually every meeting of the National Assembly and between the two rare meetings at some urgent meeting of the Home Committees. The pressure on the judicial authorities by the largest opposition party will continue in this way more than clearly. The bill contains solutions that the same applicants have proposed several times. In any case, it is desirable that the National Assembly be able to resolve the Attorney-General; the law also contains some other proposals that we have also heard several times. The amendments relate to the determination that the state prosecutor cannot become an individual who has participated in the prosecution proceedings within the competent state prosecutor or as a judge has tried or ruled on investigative and judicial proceedings in which fundamental human rights and freedoms have been violated by the judgment. Furthermore, as a reason for the termination of the functions of the Head of Public Prosecutions, it is added that, in the exercise of his managerial function, he acted voluntarily or abused his position. Since both of these provisions already exist, it is clear that the purpose of the applicants is to try to show again how catastrophic Slovenian justice is. The State Prosecutor's Office Act is referring to the conditions for the appointment of state prosecutors for the application of the Judicial Service Act, which already contains this identical provision. However, another solution proposal is already included in the law in force, only in other words. All these proposals have been discussed several times in this mandate. We have also discussed several times the contested appointment of Boštjan Škrlec and the possibility that the Attorney General would be able to resolve the National Assembly. In the United Left, we do not support solutions relating to the conditions for the appointment and discharge of state prosecutors, as they are unnecessary and already included in existing legislation. We also do not support the solution so that the Attorney General can resolve the National Assembly. The discharge powers of the Attorney General are, in our view, appropriate, taking into account the autonomy of this branch of authority. However, this must be highlighted, although the confidence of citizens and citizens in the rule of law is shattered and it is extremely low that the situation is not as catastrophic as it will today try to present the SDS. However, the functioning of justice could be and should be better. The judicial authorities will first and foremost have to work to regain their reputation. The consequences of the last decision of the State Prosecutor's Council will have to be borne by the State Prosecutor's Office alone. The general prosecutor will also have to bear the consequences for his decisions; however, all judicial authorities should be aware that such conduct is the most harmful to themselves. The role of the National Assembly is clear, with the necessary and deliberate legislative changes, it can address some of the problems that justice faces. But he cannot restore his reputation without his cooperation. In the United Left, we will not support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u161	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u162	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, which we are considering today, addresses the area of appointment and discharge of the Attorney General. More specifically, to determine the eligible applicant for appointment and also for the discharge of the Attorney General. The fact is that the current legislative regime for the discharge of the Attorney General is non-systemic compared to the regulation concerning the discharge of the President of the Supreme Court and therefore needs legislative changes. The proposed solution to the bill's proposal removes this systemic disharmony. As we have pointed out in our views in Novi Slovenija several times, the State Prosecutor's Council has, following the current regime of great powers in the appointment and discharge of state prosecutors. It would be logical for members of the National Prosecutor's Council to have a relatively high responsibility and each member of the Council would be responsible for its decision within that body; unfortunately, this is not the case. The State Prosecutor’s Council or its members are never responsible for their decisions. Such responsibilities are not even prescribed by the law in force, and the same shall apply to the members of the Council of Justice. It is the lack of accountability that fosters the frequent irregular or even illegal decisions of these authorities, which are written about by the media; nevertheless, they continue to perform their functions. For some time now, we have been pointing out and stressing in our views that our justice in the broader sense of the word is not capable of self-reflection, so it is not capable of effective self-control. Change is needed in this area. Discharge from the highest functions of the State Prosecutor's Office – let it be objective, and even more so, if it is the subjective responsibility of a particular holder of the function – must be within the policy remit. Politics is responsible for the situation in the country, that is, the situation in the field of justice. Let us again stress the impact on the public’s confidence — professional and layman’s — in justice. If the highest functions are occupied by persons who have been proven to be in breach of the law and are not responsible for it, this is caused by the total erosion of the rule of law. Policy action is necessary in such cases. Nor can policy hide itself in such cases for formalism with regard to the legitimate proposer. Politics has tools to correct and eliminate such anomalies. The proposal for amendments and the amendment of the law under consideration today also introduces a lustration for state prosecutors, directors of the State Prosecutor's Office and members of the State Prosecutor's Council. These functions cannot be performed by those individuals who have participated in investigations or in trials in cases where fundamental human rights and freedoms have been violated. Christian Democrats believe that lustration should be promoted and included by all the officials of the former Union of Communists of Slovenia and the Union of Communists of Yugoslavia. In the next parliamentary procedure, we will table amendments on a proposal for a law in this regard. Members of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will support the amendment of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office because we believe that a change of legislation in this area is necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u163	The text is given by the Alliance's Group of Ambassadors, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u164	There's always a difference. They must be respected. Today we have a debate before us, where we are all looking to speak our own; and then there is a void. But the emptiness has really been for a long time, the emptiness is mainly because the proponents have decided to make use of all the funds. One of the funds in this country is the National Assembly, and today it is up to them to try to convince the Slovenian public how right it is to change the law, even though they know that the law will not survive the first hearing. And what matters most is why we do it. We are all in this together because, thanks to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we must endure all that is happening to us today. And this is that we will listen to a kind of motion for proposals. I must say, I listened very carefully to the representative of the SDS Group, he made a mistake six times. He does not even know that the world of justice is not the one with jurisdiction over the prosecutor, but he has repeatedly repeated — the world of justice, the world of justice, the world of justice; rather than the world of the prosecution. He didn't even know what he was saying, so he got carried away because he fell into the system of a record, but still. The problem before us is that, with the decision of Zalar, the then Minister, when he made a change in the law, that it is with the desire for policy to get out of the decision-making branch of the judiciary, as far as the prosecutors are concerned, the result is that today, with the proposal of the SDS Group, we are returning to exactly the point where we made the changes in 2011. The problem arises because it was not only at the time of Zalar, in 2011, if you remember, the government of Janez Janša moved to the Ministry of the Interior; rather, it will be a meaningful link and action. But we have to be right here. In the proposal for a coalition proposal on the composition of the government, the Civil Gazette proposed this. When she saw what kind of goat she had done, she wanted to change it, but at the time, the desire for it was so strong that it remained so. And, of course, that's what's left. From this point of view, the correctness should be stated. What matters is what you do. The problem is that the profession is now divided on the question whether the prosecution is really a judicial branch of power. Opinions are different. Prof. Franz Grad of the Faculty of Law is convinced that the prosecution is not part of the judicial branch of power, but of the executive branch, as it carries out prosecutions on behalf of the state. Therefore, he believes that there must also be a link between the prosecution and the Ministry of Justice. But you know, the problem is that even Franc Castle doesn't provide any solutions; and he didn't give a specific explanation as to how to solve this problem. We are convinced in the Alliance that it does not show and is not valid to support this proposal. It certainly does not and does not show a return to the period that we have already been in; even less, make sure that it remains as it is today. That's a very important difference. We will have to come in some place; above all and certainly this will not be the SDS Group, which has not a sincere desire to resolve this issue, but I would like to solve another problem that I will not even talk about today because they will take care of it because they will say much about it. And I'm not even going to go through with this. However, the visa of Minister Klemenčič is problematic. Minister Klemenčič, if you remember, made it very clear a month ago that because of one case he would not change the law. And that is why I am pleased today to hear the Secretary of State mentioning that we are going to make these changes. The Normative Programme is really talking about the strategy, but, you know, before we get to the legislation, it's been going on for quite some time and it's going on. In fact, there are certain things that make sense and right; and I think the Minister or the Ministry of Justice know, because we have now experienced one version, another version of how to actually solve this problem. The government only has the levers of power to that limit, which is also spoken by Franz Grad, to somehow give a clear distinction between the prosecution and the judiciary. Whether this is true or not, it is likely that lawyers, experts will discuss it and will eventually tell us how these things need to be handled or suggested certain solutions in the form of a government proposal. We think it is right that such changes are always made by the government. Every time a government like it was, if it was, it made changes; and never the opposition. Especially when it has only one other purpose, it is to change and use this material for its ideological pursuit in order to use this speaker panel for its own charge used for its own message; and to comfort those who think it is right to report that something is wrong in Slovenia. We ourselves know that a lot of things are not right in the judicial system, and it is right for us to talk about this in Parliament. Far from defending it, not at all. However, as many times as we have discussed in this mandate, I am not speaking in the previous term and on; we are speaking one and the same thing over and over and over again, there are no conclusions and no solutions, but there is really no point and it is really a waste of time. Let me conclude that it seems personally very important that we give a very clear message today, of course by Monday's vote, because we are not voting today. I heard someone in the debate today when he said we were going to vote today. We add a very clear message and call on today's debate to ensure that the Ministry of Justice comes as soon as possible with a solution, as citizens and citizens too must receive a kind of response and a message on what we have seen in the last half-year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u165	Thank you very much. The word shall be given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, on its behalf Mrs Ksenija Korenjak Kramar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u166	Dear President, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members! As the main objective of the proposed amendments and the addition of the Law on State Prosecutor's Office, the applicant cited the guarantee of the legality of the conduct of the Heads and Deputys of the State Prosecutor's Office, the provision of access to an effective and fair judiciary system and the establishment of measures to sanction abuses of the situation in the judiciary. While we believe that the proposed amendments are legitimate to follow that objective in principle, even though the proposed amendments are not systematically completed and are unnecessary in view of the arrangements already in place. The proposer proposes the regulation that was in force before the existing legislation, namely the State Prosecutor's Office Act, which was in force from 28. Ten. 1994 to 6. 8. In 2011, he stipulated that the appointment and discharge of the Attorney General of the State had been decided by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government. By implementing the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, which has been in force since 6. 8. In 2011, the role of the State Prosecutor's Council as a professional body was strengthened by, inter alia, submitting a proposal to the National Assembly for the appointment and discharge of the Attorney General's Office; and not to the Government. In this regard, it is also recalled that, under the terms of Article 23 of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, under the conditions of appointment concerning the general conditions for the appointment of prosecutors, he is travelling to the application of the Law on the Judicial Service, which provides that judges who have tried or ruled in investigations and judicial proceedings in which fundamental human rights and freedoms have been infringed after the expiry of their term of office have not met the conditions for their election. With regard to the prosecutor's pleas under law, this provision also provides in article 75 for the grounds of dismissal — a conviction for an alleged offence by which the state prosecutor was sentenced to a term of imprisonment of more than six months, or to imprisonment of up to six months, or to another sentence, or to a probationary sentence. As a result of the discharge of the state prosecutor, the second point of Article 126 of the Act is that there is no doubt that the functions of the Head of the State Prosecutor are terminated. The procedure for appointing the Attorney General and the Head of State Prosecutors is complex and cannot be excluded from the role of the State Prosecutor's Council, which plays a key role in the preparation of an opinion on the proposals for the appointment of state prosecutors, for their assessment, promotion, relocation, allocation, appointment and discharge of the heads of the District Prosecutor's Office. In order to respect the transparency of the procedure for appointing the Attorney General and the Heads of State Prosecutors, Equality and Legal Security for all candidates already provided by existing legislation, the proposed amendments are unnecessary. The adoption of such measures could also constitute an intervention in the independence of state prosecutors and state prosecutors, which is inadmissible under Article 135 of the Constitution and also in the Constitutional Court decision of 2013. Any amendment that eliminates detectable anomalies and establishes the comparability of the discharge procedure and the appointment of the Attorney-General and the President of the Supreme Court must be constitutionally consistent, well-thought and adequately structured and placed. With a view to increasing the degree of independence and independence and consequently confidence in justice, measures are measures that have a minor political impact on the work of this branch of government, those which can implement these principles. In view of the above and resulting from the abstract nature of the laws aimed at the circle of indefinite number of persons and the intention to prevent political interference with the judicial branch of power whose independence is a constitutional category, it is concluded that the proposed amendments to the law are not appropriate and will therefore not be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u167	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor to prepare Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u168	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The bill that we are currently considering is a logical consequence of a few years ago, a few months ago, of the final decision of several bodies, first of all the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, the Administrative Court and the Ministry of Justice inspection, that the Attorney General acted corruptly in the event of Mr Škrlec's employment. Because of this logical consequence, in my firm belief, the legitimate opposition SDS has tabled this bill, which we are considering today. There is not so much difference between us in understanding this fact that Mr Zvonko Fischer acted corruptly. The Minister of Justice said: Mr Fisher will have a hard time doing his job. He also said: If Fisher could be asked to resign, he would do so. The key difference between Fisher or the Minister, the Government and us, for example, Novo Slovenija, is that we would actually solve this thing, because as a political party we do not want him to be in such a responsible position as the Attorney General, a man who has proved to be corrupt. That's the key difference. But we all know that he acted corruptly. If we were to talk about ethics and mishap, the Attorney General should resign himself, not only because of Mr Škrlec's employment, but also because of the facts recorded in the report on the work of the specialised state prosecutor and the state prosecutor's office in 2014. Read this report, and you will see some terrible facts or facts that say that not only the corruption that Mr Fisher should take away, but also that nothing is done. For example, banking crime, how it is prosecuted — 64 complaints have been filed, of which only eight indictments have been filed. Seizure of assets of illicit origin – determined 14 financial investigations, money in tax havens. I wonder what the specialised state prosecutor is actually doing, which is also responsible for the Attorney General. This is worth mentioning, despite the fact that they have even been strengthened in the last year. These are also the facts that Mr Fisher should finally answer once. These are two things that should also make him responsible. If I go back to the law – we really need the law. We need a law that will better regulate the appointment and discharge of the Attorney General. The present law of this, because you see for yourself, does not regulate well. And you're saying that it's an unchallenged branch of power like justice and so on. Okay. But here we have Mr Klemenčič, Minister, who answers the parliamentary questions about the situation in the judiciary. Therefore, if he responds to the situation in the judiciary, there is no political interference in this case. Following the current model, the legislation of the appointment of the Attorney General is that of the National Assembly, which will give the latter which it appoints; this time, following an existing proposal on the proposal of the Council of State. And we only propose that this difference be made by the government. It is also a matter of responsibility and different decisions of the State Prosecutor's Council in recent years, whether these people have ever taken any responsibility. No, then the minister is responsible for the consequences. Even for the consequences of the actions of the Attorney General rather than the opposite. And we propose greater responsibility for the State Prosecutor's Council. If we look at what their message will be about the Attorney General, because the State Prosecutor's Council did not say that Mr Fisher did not act corruptly. No, no, like the Administrative Court, they detected corrupt acts, but with that difference, they said, "They're not so big they should have stepped down, but they acted corruptly. The question of responsibility and remember, crows don't turn off their eyes in this case. The crow does not rule out the eyes, nor do I know whether in the future it will change that any general prosecutor will be replaced by the State Prosecutor's Council, its people. Once again, as a result of the lack of regulated legislation in this area, it is that we have and it appears that we will continue to have an important role such as that of the Attorney General, a person who has been proven to have acted corruptly has been proven. For this reason, I call on you somehow if you do not accept our proposal to amend the law, that then - the government, the coalition - propose something better, we will be happy to support it. Don't talk to me about revenge for politics, the executive or legislative branches of power in this case, because it already is. It is also a matter of trust in the work of the State Prosecutor's Council. If I continue, because today some of you have stumbled into this, as far as the lustration article is concerned. Article 8 of the Judicial Service Act, which the judge will know, is a typical lustration article, which is unfortunately not implemented. This article, for example, when the Secretary of State said that in these cases it is also appropriate to look outside the borders and across the European Union, look at the countries of Eastern Europe or Germany when they also have a lustration article regarding the prosecution. Even in the D.A. Act. We, Section 8 of the Judicial Service Act, know lustration. Why am I saying this? I am speaking because in Germany it is inconceivable that someone who has tried for example in East Germany could continue to be a judge in violation of human rights. Okay, in this case, in order to continue to be a state prosecutor, this is not known in Germany as not speaking of Poland, the Czech Republic, the Baltic States. If we apply this to the Prosecutor's Office Act, there will be no new developments under our existing legislation. Once again, our legislation, the Law on Judicial Service already knows this; but if we do a little comparison with the countries of the European Union, we will see that they know that this is also being implemented in the Prosecutor's Office Act. I hope that I will be our goal after this debate, despite the fact that you have announced that you will not support the bill's proposal, so that we can work together to ensure that there are no corrupt people in such responsible positions. For it is free, therefore, that we are drunk into heaven and speak trust in Slovenian justice, for this is a logical consequence. If there are corrupt people in responsible positions, then people cannot trust such prosecutions, such prosecutions, cannot trust in the judiciary, and so on. But the move will be on you, because, as it turns out, you won't support this marriage. I suggest, however, that the Government come as soon as possible with some text that will solve the situation. We can't afford this kind of slip. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor to prepare Dr. Jasna Murgel.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u170	Madam President, thank you so much for your words. Previously, in the position of the SD, it was noted that the Slovenian Democratic Party is constantly dealing with the issue of the prosecution. That's true, and so are the courts. That's right. I just want to know who is irresponsible about this now: us, who are constantly stressing that there is something very wrong in this area; or you who put your head in the sand. Why? The fact is that in Slovenia we record the lowest level of confidence in the judiciary and justice. The fact is that people do not trust this branch of power, and the fact is that there is a need for change. And you're telling us that we're constantly dealing with this problem. Yes, of course you do, because you don't hear because you don't see this need. And you just don't want to understand when we solve this area, we can do a lot of good, concrete things in other areas. I'm afraid that won't be the case until then. What do we propose in the Slovenian Democratic Party? Simply – that the Attorney General appoints the National Assembly, of course on the reasoned proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, for a period of six years, of course with the possibility of extension. I think the change is completely effective. Why? Today’s regulation is the following: The State Prosecutor’s Council proposes to appoint and then to dismiss the Attorney General’s Office. Who's making up the State Prosecutor's Council? Most prosecutors. And I'm going to ask you something different. What powers does the Attorney General have in relation to prosecutors? Probably even those who are sitting in this State Bureau or who once were in that other place. Let's hear: "The Attorney General proposes to the State Prosecutor's Council the adoption of a quality criterion for the work of state prosecutors to assess the state prosecutor's office. He shall submit a proposal to the competent minister for an order concerning the number of City Prosecutors and the titles in which the State Prosecutor's Office is performed in individual State Prosecutor's Offices. It shall decide on the allocation and termination of the award of a state prosecutor to another state prosecutor." Can you imagine? Something's wrong, and you're going somewhere else. "Proposal of relocation, gives a preliminary opinion on the appointment of the Head of the District Attorney's Office. He's giving an opinion on the discharge of the head of the District Attorney's Office. He may give an initiative to the Disciplinary Prosecutor for the initiation of disciplinary proceedings and more, may request disciplinary proceedings and may grant temporary removal from the State Prosecutor's Office." I'm talking about suspension. These people were then to be dismissed in another role by the Attorney General. Come on, come on. And then we hear from the government that the proposal for a law is not well thought out. Do you think this arrangement now applies? I don't think it's hard to expect those who somehow depend on this person to be completely objective. I think we expect too much of them. The procedure for appointing the Attorney General is complex under the current regime, you say. Really? Then why did Mr Cerar say or said the following sentence: "It is up to Mr Fisher whether he will remain in this place or not." The President of the Government after all the known cases when it came to the court's decision and so on. It's up to him to stay here. So it's up to him, even though we all know he broke the law. This is also noted by the State Prosecutor’s Council. On the other hand, a well-respected coalition has taken the mandate of someone who has been appointed by the electorate and the electorate. That's where you threw this. Doesn't that matter here? And here you just say, that's how it is, and that's how it has to be. Fisher stays because he wants to. You leave it up to him whether he stays or not. Someone else, who wasn't even guilty, you've already taken things all your own way in the process. These are facts, and that's sad. And one more thing. You say, this is what the Government says in its opinion, that there is no comparability with other countries. Of course she's not, because we're on our own. We've also been avoiding the fact that we have the Attorney General who persecuted people just because they put a cross where they were killed, not during the war, but in what way. In short, he violated those deepest human rights. But that's not a problem with us. Then let's compare ourselves with some other countries and everything. Yeah, come on, let's start over. But when we want this matter to be settled and the National Assembly to propose this, which is made up of different views, you reject this, because of course the proposal is not systematic. But the last time we solved the so-called package of electoral laws was in every article you proposed, some stupidity that is much bigger than the one in force. But that one's systemic, good, no problem. Of course, we are not going to say that this is all perfect, which is here, and that it cannot be upgraded. Dear Government, of course you can. But the coalition will follow your opinion and the law will be rejected and will not allow it to go into the next process. But today you took 30 minutes because you don't think it's worth it that this marriage together might be upgraded in the debate. Of course not. You take the time when Janez Janša's problem is there, but you're not going anywhere. This is why the country will not function better. But the problems remain, and that's the biggest problem we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Dr. Jasna Murgel has the word to prepare Mrs. Irena Kotnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u172	Thank you very much. The motioner's been waiting for me to come by, so I'll be right back. I believe that the proposed amendment to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office is at least inadequate. Why is she inappropriate? Because this law is aimed at a specific person, against a specific person, as we have heard here many times before, ad persona. Look who is not, the proposed transitional provision of Article 14 of this proposed law, which reads as follows: 'A call for the appointment of the Attorney General by taking into account the provisions of this law', that is, this new one that they would adopt, 'is to be published and appointed within two months of the entry into force of this law'. So if we had passed this law, we would have enforced this law precisely because of the dismissal of Attorney General Bell Fisher. This is the purpose of this law — ad persona. Which is contrary to the principle of retroactivity. I don't know how we're gonna stop this one if we put it under the conditions that were in force when it was placed. This marriage, my dears, is meant for precisely – and now you are waving as you are waving, and attaching – to the suspension of the Bell Fisher. I'm asking you, do we really want to, do we really have to interfere with justice in this way? Yes, you do; but the SMC Group doesn't want to and can't. Why can't we? Because it is not a matter of the State Prosecutor's Office and also of the Attorney General's Office only for the person of the Attorney General's Office. It is an institution that ensures respect for the rule of law. It's not just him. It is the independence and stability of this institution; it is the whole country. And if we now, say, passed this law and replaced the Attorney General, we wouldn't do much. Previously, the colleague listed all the functions of the Attorney General. However, the Attorney General does not give or direct instructions to prosecutors on how to proceed in certain cases. But we will have the opportunity, dear colleagues, to consider the annual report of the State Prosecutor's Office, as well as the Special State Prosecutor's Office, and to learn about the problems that exist. It is clear that changes are needed with regard to the State Prosecutor's Office. We'll have a chance to deal with them then. It is also clear from the Government's normative plan, look at it, that the deadline for dealing with amendments to the Public Prosecutor's Act is 26. 11. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law was supposed to be passed by 15. 4. 2016 and we will therefore have the opportunity to amend the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office when the Government does so. Since all the solutions you are proposing are already contained in this law, which already exists, some are, I do not think yours are necessary. Now, as far as this condition for the appointment and discharge of prosecutors is concerned, one who has cooperated with the intelligence services should not be assigned to the prosecutor. Again, I repeat what I said in the legislation, when we discussed the electoral system, that it was a condition that was too arbitrary. We don't know who's going to find out if anyone's been involved. Yeah, you'll say he'll sign the statement. But if the question arises, the person for whom someone will say does not know who should have found this to have cooperated with the Udba, after this proposal will not have the possibility of legal protection to defend itself against this finding. This would mean an excessive interference with human rights, in my view, so such a proposal is unacceptable. We believe that the proposed solution is inadequate and we will not support it. However, we will be actively involved in the work of the Government, in the preparation of amendments to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office. I hope that we may have an opportunity before the law enters into the legislative procedure to cooperate with the opposition, which could offer some constructive solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr Vinko Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u174	Thank you very much. It is my special pleasure to perform for Mrs. Murgljeva. Mrs. Murglieva, you're a judge, let's be serious, people need to know that you're a judge, that's very important. The novela is inappropriate — against a specific person. Or who's hiding it? I've made a public announcement. We're going to file a law that will allow you to resolve Mr. Fisher. Nobody's hiding this. But our novel speaks of someone who has acted unlawfully and who has acted corruptly, so we propose a novel to ad person to Mr Fisher to help him through his door. But you have taken a decision that has prevented Mr Janša from working in the National Assembly, and you have placed him at the door. This Decision was declared unconstitutional. It is said that as a judge you pressed the key, and now it says up on your finger – I acted unconstitutionally. It's a print now, a fingerprint. And this one will last forever. And if there's any more lustration, then you won't be able to run for judge anymore. But look what the difference is. Your laws are also ad personnel, only Janša was unconstitutionally convicted, unlawfully convicted, and unlawfully and illegally took his mandate. Now you're going back to him. For the reserve, if anything else happened, if Fisher gave birth until the Lord's year, when the elections were held, that's why you wrote it. Established under the old conditions; of course, it was placed under the old conditions, as all directors are also appointed under certain conditions; and when new ministers arrive, they are driven as if I do not know what. I'm not a lot, but I'm a bit of a minister, not all of them. So we know. You're probably here, I'm going to ask one question of the mission, I'm going to make it all go away. But what do you do in such a case? The Constitutional Court has already decided that in such cases, if a person is dismissed and appointed under some of the old conditions, he shall have compensation. A typical case is the Director-General of Police because you didn't have to look at him there anymore. I'd find something else, say; this is already impossible for the left political option. We cannot and will not vote. Yes, of course you can't and you won't vote. Maybe it was Murgle in the back, yeah. Maybe they were here. But they were also where you now have a fingerprint and write up — unconstitutionally and illegally I did something. Not me, you. Independence and stability of the prosecutor. What independence and stability of the prosecutor?Oh, my God! Who wants what he wants? First of all, let's go to chess on Mondays and Fridays. Second, from Tuesday to Thursday, let him unlock his office and not be locked in his office, because someone could come to him. Let's move on. Do not give any instructions. Yes, the Attorney General must not give instructions. That's right. But the media are in the spring of 2013 – I am talking about the media that there will be nothing, because this gentleman is ready to write a complaint, I know that, so I will refer to the media – the following report said that during the demonstrations he had called all prosecutors to a standstill, the heads of the prosecutions and told them, as long as this authority is, that you must act as restrictively as possible on police proposals. That means they can break Ljubljana, they can break Maribor, the police can stand on their heads, and you don't do anything. It's Bell Fisher, according to the media. That's where I read it. I have no proof because I had no executive powers. 26. 11. At 12:30 p.m., I invite you to lunch downstairs if they present the law. It's Thursday. Take note. There will be no law. Someone's eight. 4. 2015, look, you haven't read the law again. Come on, damn it, they're already reading the law. There is a condition here that speaks of a lustration clause for the Director-General of the Prosecutor's Office. That is what it is now, sir, that Shkrlec, who has benefited from Mr Fischer's corruption, should have done so, that he is still sitting there and should not have done so. [[Incomprehensible]] This is not prescribed in this bill for the Attorney General. This bill prescribes what is stated in the Judicial Service Act in Article 8 of 1994. This means that all persons who have participated in judicial proceedings as prosecutors or judges and who have been violated human rights cannot be judges and prosecutors. The Attorney General can't be the one who broke it either. That's what it says. So much for you. Now I must answer some of the others who are still here. Mr. Old, great. I need to remind you of one thing. A government that is serious – because it is not in which you participate – has the opportunity to write amendments; write amendments. You've got a lot of people walking up and down there, and I helped you send some of them there, and they fled when I came to the interior ministry, they're with you now. Let them write you amendments, and things will be clear, if this isn't right in marriage, that's not right. Write the amendments. Why don't you write the amendments? I will answer you why not; because you are protecting Mr Fisher; and your fingers will also say – I am protecting corruption. You wrote a report that says that Dr. Fisher acted corruptly, and you're the author of it. When they meet on the board, it's a good day, Mr. Prosecutor. And when Mr. Prosecutor tells you that you worked in an organization that is actually an organization for discrediting people, neither do you say "a" to this gentleman back, but say - goodbye, hello. You're funny with things like this. You're protecting corruption, and that's all it is. That's all it is, nothing else. Mr Kopmajer spoke about our engagement – because he is not, he went again as his predecessor, Mrs Porotatova – for the same purposes and so on. Okay, then you write the law and let the gentleman help you leave. You can write it down. Why not? He was talking about the withdrawal of politics from the D.A.'s office. I've told you a few times before, the independent branch of power is the judiciary, not the prosecution, which is not even part of the judiciary. And in court today you or your boss have the right, under certain conditions, to propose the discharge of the General in court, the Supreme Court, Mr Masles. Now, Mr Kopmajer is still talking about the withdrawal of politics from the prosecution.The prosecution is not a judicial branch of power, but why should they have some special privilege and their boss should be appointed in some special way. [[…]] It won't work. Mrs. Mursich, I'm out of luck. You're in there, sorry. You said it was a step back. Why would that be a step back? As I have the data and as Mr Klemenčič has answered the Members' questions, this part is intended to be regulated as it was. He will never give up not having the opportunity to propose an exchange of the President of the Supreme Court. That's certainly not what we can dream. However, I believe - and here he is right, here I support the Minister to bring back an article which speaks of the possibility under certain conditions for the Minister to propose the exchange of the Attorney General. I mean, I support that. Will that step then be a step further? That would be a step back. Because what we are proposing is the same in 2011, in principle. This is also the case with European countries, in particular the former Eastern European countries. The conflict between SDS and the prosecution. That's not true. This is the state's conflict with the corrupt prosecutor. This should be the problem of all 90 Members, this should also be your problem. It should be your problem to have such a person at the head of the DA's office, but you're protecting her now. I told you, somewhere in front of Mr. Webber, there's gonna be a sign that says you're protecting this, too. The D.A.'s system, damn it. Ireland had the highest crisis and the collapse of the banking system and all the other two years ahead of us, I think so. Now, after all these years in Ireland, you no longer have a person who is supposed to be in prison. She's already in prison, and she's caused a bank hole. She's gone. Excuse me, Iceland. The lady, who writes Eva Joly, is said to be a French prosecutor who is now advising in such cases, said yesterday: "At the start of the Icelandic banking system investigation, there was no comparable prior experience; the investigators had never before met similar cases. In the middle of the investigation, more than 80 people participated, mostly young people, especially foreigners. Iceland has so few citizens, and you almost all know each other," Joly described the difficulties in finding investigators. It stressed that dedicated investigators and a robust judicial system at all levels are needed to effectively investigate banking crime. There is no future for the country until it clears up such old sins. What did Mr. Fisher do? How many criminal charges do we have? We've got some tests. We've already got some tests. Where's five billion? Nothing. That is why, as the representative of NSI said, we should send him to where he belongs — history. This part doesn't go together either. Mr. Hanzk has no sense of answering. He's not even there, he's completely pointless, "we don't support" and so on. Absurd. It's a waste of time for him. Mr Möderndorfer, everything he said – an ideological theme. It's not an ideological theme, it's a corrupt topic. The question is, at the top of the prosecution, we have a corrupt person, amen, for sure. And you support her. It's not an ideological topic. And the desire of SDS for exchange and so on, yes, of course. The wish of the SDS is certain that Mr. Fisher will leave. The desire is certain that prosecutors who violate the Constitution and the law will leave. It is certain that the President of the Supreme Court and those who violate the Constitution and the law in the judiciary will leave. Yeah, sure, what else? That makes perfect sense. The President of the National Assembly is not here, I assume he is following us and will be able to answer us because this part is critical. I watched Mr Grimes interrupt earlier, by his side. I understand and respect everyone who thinks otherwise; but the President of the National Assembly is the President of the National Assembly. He has no right to hear anything but his right and left ear. Then something's wrong. As the current president of the National Assembly, I will say so publicly, I have not seen such a poor meeting management and so obvious opposition denial. I remember Mr. Webber with us. I once knew that I had, the only time I had, the only procedural proposal I had was for you at the time. I kind of critically told you to look down and write something when we're talking, but I must admit, Mr. Weber, you've come to a great deal. I also had a feeling that you had a positive change in the way meetings were conducted. What the President of the National Assembly is doing to place this item on the agenda at 6.45 p.m. on Friday, there is no vote at the end, that is irresponsible. That's irresponsible. That's the first one. And another, whoever speaks in opposition, shares those reminders as though he were a Santa Claus, with no idea of what. And that's unacceptable. That's unacceptable, and it's going to go down in history, and he wants it or not. And he reads it in front of the cameras. If I finish the first part, there is no question, here we have to be quite clear, there is no question of anything but that the coalition is mutual, and it is clear that it is mutual – I to you, you to me, because we know this from the former Yugoslavia – it works actually not a coalition, now I must say so, the left political option, because the same blood is flowing. [[…]] It works together in the way it works. This means that he rewards those prosecutors, rewards those presidents of the Supreme Court and the candidates who then pitch at their will. And that's why you're willing to call what you did yesterday just so dry. If someone said they needed five judges in Slovenia Castle, they'd name them without asking if they really needed them or not. And what is happening here today, the non-admission of this law, is nothing more than supporting the theistic story. But the fingerprints will remain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u175	Thank you. A procedural proposal is made by Mrs Ksenija Rootjak Kramar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u176	Thank you very much. I would ask that we stick to the subject of today's debate. And this is also the answer to you. We've all got the president's explanation, at least I've heard it well about the agenda. And as far as I understand and hear, the proposal proposed will be taken into account in the next reference. Please, Madam President, my proposal is that we stick to the agenda and continue the debate in the spirit of the point that we are discussing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Here you go, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u178	That was procedural. Answer the ladies. I don't think I did anything wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u179	The procedural proposal has been put forward – let us proceed with the item under consideration; therefore, we continue. I give my word to Mr. Joseph Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u180	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice-President. Dear Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! Today's debate takes place at nine o'clock. We're talking about three micro-amendments of three laws. I support all three of them, the first to be bound by the pension law; the second to be bound by the social field, as well as this. As far as our productivity is concerned, after more than eight hours and we'll still be here for a while, our productivity is such that God has mercy on us. But why? Today we have three opposition micro-amendments of three laws on the program. As a matter of fact, everything I think needs to be supported. I would like government changes, not cosmetic changes in laws; but reforms I would like. And here I continue that no one will fool me into not talking about content. Of course, I will talk about content, first a slightly broader view of the justice system. I will present an analysis that was not produced in the New Slovenia Group, because perhaps in this case someone would have received a chicken pole; but I am reading an analysis prepared every year by the European Commission and by Members and Members of Parliament for reading, in studies. We are talking about a review of the state of justice in the European Union for 2015. Why is that good? Why should the European Commission and why should we have a judicial review at the level of the European Union? The 2015 EU Justice Scoreboard is presented at a time when the European Union is committed to revitalising growth and creating a new momentum for change. Successful justice systems play a key role in creating a favourable environment for investment, restoring confidence and ensuring greater regulatory verifiability and sustainable growth. I've said it a hundred times, and I've done it again. I will never forget the top of the economy in autumn 2012, when the economy ahead of us, the politicians, before the then assembly of Parliament and before the then government, where Nova Slovenije was also in the coalition, put four demands before us. In the first place — what? Now we all know – the rule of law. And I am, in particular, working for the rule of law, because this is one prerequisite, one of the preconditions for prosperity in our country; economic growth, investment, the arrival of foreign investors; and, of course, for domestic investors to invest at home, not elsewhere where there is better legal certainty. That's what's happening to us. We all know that. And so that people can live better with us. That's what this is about. We need an effective justice system to do this. The Scoreboard helps Member States improve the performance of their judicial systems. The purpose of this report is to identify possible trends, but it contains new indicators and more sophisticated data. The important role played by justice systems for growth complements their essential function of respecting the values on which the European Union is founded. And Slovenia is a member of the European Union. Access to a successful justice system is a fundamental right in the core of European democracies recognised in constitutional traditions common to all Member States. The right to an effective remedy before a court is enshrined in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. We are talking about fundamental rights, we are not talking about a sophisticated area, we are talking about fundamental rights, we are talking about a foundation. The success of judicial systems is also crucial for the implementation of European Union law and the strengthening of mutual trust. National courts in the application of European Union law act as courts of the Union and must ensure effective judicial protection for all citizens and undertakings whose rights conferred on them by EU law are violated. The shortcomings of national justice systems hamper the functioning of the single market – we have already taken this, but not implemented, the single market – the good functioning of the European area of justice and the effective implementation of the acquis of the European Union. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, national judicial reforms have been an integral part of the structural components in the Member States for which economic adjustment programmes have been adopted since 2011. Since 2012, improving the quality, independence and efficiency of justice systems has also been a priority in the context of the so-called European Semester, an annual cycle of economic policy coordination at European Union level. The 2015 Annual Growth Survey reiterates its commitment to implementing structural reforms in the field of justice. This reform process is part of, as it is said, structural reforms that are being promoted at European Union level with a view to strengthening economic recovery in Europe. So there will be no economic recovery in Europe and, of course, in Slovenia if there is no good, effective justice system. Structural reforms together with investment and fiscal responsibility are one of the three pillars of the European Union's integrated approach to economic and social policy in 2015; this is today. Structural reforms to ensure the effectiveness of justice systems enable businesses and citizens to create a more environmentally friendly environment. Together with the assessment of the situation in individual Member States, the findings of the 2014 Scoreboard have contributed to the preparation of country-specific recommendations in the field of justice. On a proposal from the Commission, the Council made recommendations to 12 Member States to improve the independence, quality and effectiveness of the judicial system of individual countries. Among these twelve countries is the Republic of Slovenia. Of those twelve countries, there were ten in 2013, including the Republic of Slovenia. In 2012, it is one year ago and six already defined as Member States having problems in the field of the functioning of the justice system. During all this period, in all these years, the Republic of Slovenia is always mentioned, and nothing happens. Nothing. We don't even get the idea of reforming the justice system from the government. So there will be no economic growth, because there is no foundation. And we're going to talk about fire action, how to save food for kids, etc. No systemic solutions, just firefighters or cosmetics. Well, because you've been told quite a bit about Mr. Fisher, and I don't know why no one does a very simple anonymous survey between us and 90. He takes 90 sheets and writes the question of whether Mr Fisher should leave. Possible answers are two — yes or no. I'd really like to know if everyone would be honest, handing out this note anonymously, and I'd really like to know what the result of this survey would be. But I am sure that the majority would be answered — yes. And I'm concluding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Ange Logar, get Mr. Janko Weber ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u182	Whose fault is it? [[microphone malfunction]] The President or the Member? Mine, with what? Now I don't know if this is the next way to stop the opposition in this national council?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u183	That's almost a terrible thing to listen to.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Is it ringing now?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u185	Yeah, now it's better.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u186	Apparently there's been a technical disturbance, so I'm going to speak now as Nada Brinovšek. So let me get started. Who are we talking about? We are not talking about some hypothetical situation that might have happened, nor are we talking about accusations allegedly made by the opposition. We are talking about the legislative proposal, the amendment of a law that caught the government unprepared. The President of the Government doubts whether the Attorney-General can faithfully carry out his task with such a burden, the Minister of Justice, and both recognise, we do not have the authority to do anything more. Mr Vinko Gorenak had previously read the statements made by Ms Joly from the European Greens. In this respect, I would add just one more statement, which colleague Gorenak did not read, and I think it is very appropriate for today's debate. She said get rid of the corrupt prosecutors. We have, at the head of the Attorney General's Office, a person against whom the three authorities have taken a decision; yet today we have a very unusual debate. The coalition got caught up in an interesting loop. The coalition becomes a lawyer or a language doctor of all those against whom, in the event of irregularities, the SDS Group proposes a legal solution. If the Slovenian Democratic Party makes a well-intentioned proposal for a solution to an unsustainable situation – and the situation in the Attorney-General's Office is certainly unsustainable; a number of records testify to this, and your Prime Minister's statement. But as soon as the Slovenian Democratic Party prepares a foundation, as mushrooms in the rain, opposition to such a legal solution grows. Why is that? And we all agree that there is one big problem in the prosecution. Very nice idea of a colleague of Horvat to anonymously fill out a questionnaire: do you think that person can continue to do his job as Attorney General? But from what I've seen and what I've seen in these ten months, I'm afraid the result would be different if this anonymous survey was proposed by SDS, or if this anonymous survey was suggested by, say, SMC. Even in anonymity, this urge of the language doctor against the SDS proposal would be so strong that the coalition MPs would vote differently behind those walls. Earlier, a colleague from Desus said that Mr Kopmajer would say no change that would bring politics back into the justice system. But [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Not the kind I have, Mr. Kopmeyer has. Mr Fisher is a man of politics, admitting himself to being a man of politics. Those who read the material for today's session, a press release signed by Dr. Zvonk Fischer addressed with the theatre title Political Attempts to Resolve the Attorney General. In the second paragraph, let me quote: "The Minister, his co-workers and the drafters agreed that the proposal for the appointment of the Director-General is appropriate and represents the best solution. If there were any doubt at that time, the Ministry would immediately reject such a proposal." Can you imagine?Oh, my God! Now, everyone who sings about the independence of the Attorney General and the Attorney General's Office tells you himself that before he appointed his Director-General, he went to ask the Minister. Minister, can this one become the CEO? And then, if it were not for the Minister of State, the Ministry would immediately reject such a proposal – and the Attorney General will accept it. So he accepts that if he is a real minister, he goes to ask him for an opinion on his closest associates and also admits that if the minister did not like the appointment, the minister would immediately reject such an appointment. So how can we say that someone would like to withdraw politics from such a appointment? And on top of that, the style in which the Attorney General writes, at least he raised my eyebrows and those who read his answer, probably too. Mr. Attorney General denies everything, because you know when I'm guilty, I deny everything, obviously. He even says that "it is not possible to talk in any case about illegality and corruption which the KPK unreasonably manifests; their conclusions were adopted in an illegal procedure." Mr Stare, if I am not mistaken, you are one of those who wrote this decision or this decision of the KPK, and only the final signature was given under the leadership of the new chairman of the Commission. Mr Fisher is de facto delegating the KPK and at the same time delegating your former work. Moreover, he says, "The legal profession of determining long and without real success has pointed out the inadmissibility of such baseless and arbitrary actions of the KPK." You have written this decision, and Mr Fisher says it is unfounded and arbitrary. Why don't you take action? This irregular situation is now being used to attempt to gain political supremacy over the State Prosecutor's Office and to put pressure on the Attorney General. So if you wrote this, you used the irregular situation to attempt to gain political supremacy over the State Prosecutor's Office and to pressure the Attorney General. Is that so? It's amazing if you did that at the time, but now you've become an executive branch of power. But interestingly, now that you're the executive branch of power, you're getting your hands on that power. You do not want this authority, although you could hide it under the SDS proposal. We would simply say, look, change and adopt the SDS proposal. Now let me give you the other side of Mr Fischer's words, as well as my case regarding the findings of the KPK. Let us take a look at 2012 – the case of Prosecutor Dragica Kotnik. Apparently, against someone who sold a fake vignette didn't initiate proceedings against someone. That's a serious offense. And then the KPK – I think that you were in the KPK at the time – announced to the police and the prosecution that it was a suspicion of a crime, that you referred it to Attorney General Fischer, and submitted a proposal for a supervisory or disciplinary procedure. [[…]] In early February; on 27 February, the Attorney General instituted this procedure. So three weeks later, he instituted a procedure for a vignette on the basis of a declaration by the KPK, not even a decision, but announced. In his case, he says: 'unreasonable and arbitrary conduct of the KPK, which creates a double legal order'. Who do you now believe — the KPK or the Attorney General Fisher? Well, you obviously don't believe SDS in any way. And in any way, you obviously don't believe the sincere intentions of this proposal. Mr Fischer then writes that when he hired Shkrlec, he has explained several times and is convinced that "I acted legally in the submission of the proposal for that appointment and that the appointment took place on the basis of the present one," he notes, "understanding the new Law on the Prosecutor's Office." On the basis of a new understanding of the Public Prosecutions Act. The Administrative Court stated that the provisions of Articles 62 and 140 are clear and cannot be interpreted and applied in any other way than those laid down. The Attorney General, who pursues crime or irregularities, clearly misinterprets legal standards. Is that not yet an additional reason to look for a legal basis for finding a solution to the situation? Again, a good cause or a fine excuse, as the SDS proposed a legal supplement. And then, the State Prosecutor's Council, composed mainly of subordinates to Mr Fischer, then says on the basis of all this: The State Prosecutor's Council points out that the State Prosecutor's Council had no reason not to believe the Attorney General's explanation that he acted in good faith and without any other motive when proposing to Boštjan Škrlec. Yeah, it's a kindergarten! Look, he says he misunderstood the law, and then he tells his subordinates – now decide whether I am or not. And they answer – we have no reason not to trust the state prosecutor. But the government -- look, there's nothing we can do. Do you think that's normal? Sorry, I don't feel like it. And let's talk about when you say how we politicize the state's attorney's office and so on. He was politicised by Mr Fisher and Mr Zalar. Let me remind you, Mr. Zalar said at the time of Fisher's appointment, quote: "You will hardly find a candidate with such a brilliant career." Does it seem to you that someone who says that he did not fully understand the new law and that he has made a decision based on his understanding of it, someone who has a truly brilliant career?Oh, my God! Let me tell you something, I don't think so. Also allow 75% of Slovenians to feel the same way. And when this response from the Ministry of Justice explains how transparency of the procedure for appointing a state prosecutor should be required – it is the marriage story concerning the appointment of Fischer that bears witness to how transparent it has been. Zalar praises Fischer for his long and wide position when in 2011 he shows that the government of Borut Pahor will fail and that another coalition majority will come; they quickly change the law and take away the possibility of replacing incompetent and incompetent prosecutors. You see, that's the effect of politics on the prosecution. This is the influence of politics. We have the results where we have them. Your coalition contract on page 35 under 4.16 of Justice and the rule of law states: Restricting corruption risks in justice, zero tolerance for corruption within justice, is the starting point for determining concrete measures to limit corruption risks in justice. Once again, I stress the starting point for concrete measures. What is more than a direct reason to take immediate action if there is a case such as Dr. Fisher, if there is a need for ad personnel; this is not an ad personam, this is only a return to the situation the day before the amendment of the Zalar novel. And do something to restore confidence in the justice system, in the prosecution, in persecuting crime in Slovenia. Just denying this idea and putting your head in the sand and opposing every proposal for a bad state of justice just because it was proposed by the SDS, it will not make the important breakthrough you have set yourself. One of you may find this satisfaction — here we are today; but for Slovenia and in the long run it is a very bad practice. Once again, it is a first reading, if the Ministry says that it is in principle and supports this legitimate objective, there is no reason not to find a solution in the following defences that would be acceptable for the coalition and for the welfare of Slovenia, nor do I mention the opposition to make a significant change in the judiciary and in the prosecution. Then this price to support the SDS proposal, probably for those who think well in heart, but can not be too difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u187	Thank you very much. I'm informing you there's been a technical malfunction of the mic of mags. Anžeta Logar, so his discussion on the microphone Nada Brinovšek will be subsequently introduced into the system. But we forgive you for making this mistake. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor now.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u188	If it's not a diversion, it's okay. I believe it isn't, and I believe it is. But I have one question for all present, especially for this younger part here, Mr Christmas, Zorčič and so on. [[advertising from the hall]] We can't count as young people. I have a question, but in cooperation with the elderly, you will be there, Mr Secretary of State, I have the following question. On the subject of Mr Fischer and all these matters, I do not know on which television and on which radio of national importance I have not been, more or less everywhere, even with Mrs Murglovo. More or less everywhere. I haven't met a reporter, and I haven't met any editors to praise this situation, and I would say - wait where you're going, Fisher is the right person in this place. All in turn have been repulsed to extremes. I quickly reviewed my communication with you Members. I'm not going to name it because I'm going to be corrected by everyone, I've spoken to 21 members of the coalition on this subject. None of these Members have convinced me why and that Mr Fisher must stay where he is, no one. All of them were in order — why the hell should I defend this man, for I have nothing from him. Everybody up against him, he's got to go. If I add the Secretary of State, which Mr Fisher has literally robbed. Something he did on the board when he said the Secretary of State was involved in the discreditation service, it's a man's mugging, and it's in front of the cameras. The Secretary of State, Mr Stara, did not even reply to him, but said good-bye to him by handshake. With what Mr. Horvath said, if we did a survey, that would be nice. And now I have a question for you. What invisible force is driving you into this? Who's ordering you this? Whoever's ordering this so someone can spit in your eyes, spit in your face, and you can't answer. You can't answer that. The answer you gave me, it's not true, we know that. Who is this invisible force? I'm not going to say it's Murgle, I'm not going to say it, but who's the invisible force that's driving you into having to smear your fingers with a vote?Oh, my God! Who is on this invisible force, which, when you vote and perform public performances, is that you praise Fisher as soon as the cameras and microphones go out, you have the worst words for him. I'd be very happy to have some young people above all, if you'd stop by and tell me who it is that blames you. Because you are obviously sitting in some of the parties where this is happening; but you are telling us that this is happening with us. I have no problems, no problems, no one breaks my hand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u190	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! My opinion is that there are too many proceedings or decisions in the courts on the basis of the findings of the infringement, not on the basis of the content of the individual case. And if I touch upon this case, which has also been the reason why SDS Members have tabled the Prosecutor's Act, which we are dealing with today, they are in violation of the procedure for appointing Boštjan Škrlec as Director-General of the State Prosecutor's Office. This was also found, but was also remedied in the process of these findings. The State Prosecutor's Council has dealt with this case and has also taken a decision not to propose the discharge of the Attorney General because it considers that this flawed procedure, which has been established, is not sufficient reason to propose the discharge of the Attorney General. From the point of view of what I said at the outset, in my view, everything is really too much of a decision in the courts taken on the basis of the infringements found or the failure to comply with the procedures for obtaining evidence and the like; however, the content of the individual case is not decided. In this case, it seems to me that the State Prosecutor's Council did the right thing because it did not follow this path, which we all face too often, that our cases fall due to shortcomings in the process itself. What is important in all these matters is that I think we should speak honestly about the fact that corruption is certainly a problem in Slovenia and that we must organise and fight against corruption socially. But speaking of content, I will also continue to read the position concerning Dr. Zvonka Fischer and was presented by Mr. Anton Drobnic, the first Attorney General in the Republic of Slovenia. In the event of Dr Fischer's first non-election as constitutional judge in 1998, Mr Anton Drobnič said that this was one of the best prosecutors in the country, which was extremely honest and responsible; and that the Slovenian state should not have so easily rejected such experts. Apparently, Dr. Fisher is a sovereign and hard man enough not to be guided or intimidated and is immune to suggestions on how to run a policy of persecution. And as the Attorney-General of the Committee on Justice said at that time, it is his duty as chairman of the law enforcement body to fight for his independent position in the system of government and must also take care of the legality of society. I think that this characteristic of Mr Anton Drobnic is very much to say. First Attorney General in Slovenia. It is important that the role now performed by the Attorney General is in the way that he is obviously immune to left-wing policies, right-wing policies, middle-level policies. In short, it shows that he is doing his job to the best of his expertise and in his knowledge and belief that corruption in Slovenia must be eliminated. How important it is that the courts work effectively in difficult situations or even in difficult cases, we were also aware of the independence of Slovenia. The Constitutional Act implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in Article 8 states: Judges of the Constitutional Court, courts and public prosecutors shall act until the expiry of the term of office for which they have been elected or appointed. Despite the fact that even a new country has been created, we have allowed judges to carry out their duties smoothly until their mandate expires. Do you imagine the situation when we gained our independence and would say that your office has ceased and we will appoint new judges? There would be a great void in the middle, and a lot of corruption would certainly have happened by then. In my opinion, corruption in Slovenia certainly did not exist when we decided on the plebiscite on independence; and there certainly was no corruption when we resisted the aggressor. But the fact is that corruption has begun to develop in a later period; and one of these matters is certainly also related to weapons. We have never cleared up this matter, which has been following us since then, and there has been a lot of things going on between us. And in this situation in which we are today, however, it must also be said that the decision of the Constitutional Court, by which it annulled the Supreme Court's decision on the corruption of Mr Janez Janša, is a decision of the Constitutional Court, which, in my opinion, is also written down, is in fact a decision based on infringements of certain procedures. It did not decide on the content, but it did decide on the infringement of the procedures. At the same time, it has raised the level of possibility of condemning someone for corruption to a level that is certainly not good. In Slovenia we will obviously have to prove very clearly after the Constitutional Court's decision to someone that he acted corruptly, that at that very moment you caught him and proved that he acted corruptly when he received, say, a certain bribe. The Court in Austria decided that Mr Riedel had brought money to Slovenia and handed it over to Mr Zagozno as an intermediary. And also many cases in Slovenia were where the court ruled on the basis of circumstantial evidence. The Constitutional Court has not been involved in this situation. Well, in this case, it got involved, and from this point forward, when the Constitutional Court said that circumstantial evidence was not enough to convict, we somehow prevented further successful fighting, if I may say so, against corruption. That's what we need to worry about. The court's decision to support a specific policy has also shown that other legal order is applied at a different level; it has raised someone to a completely different level; we can say even above the level of jurisdiction, because this has been decided by the Constitutional Court of the National Assembly and the Government. These are facts that I think we should discuss very seriously and take measures together to effectively prevent corruption in Slovenia. The fact is that there was corruption in Patria because the courts had already ruled in Austria, and they will still be in Finland. Some decisions were also issued to certain members of the Slovenian Armed Forces who were involved in these proceedings at the time. It is true that the case is still in the process, but at least those which have been pronounced by the Austrian court in this case have been proved to be corrupt. So it was corruption. And if we can talk about Attorney General Zvonk Fischer, this moment is very important, right now, in today's debate that this law is not adopted, because the law speaks of a call for the appointment of a new Attorney General after two months of the adoption of this law. So in the middle of the proceedings, because the Constitutional Court has actually returned to the Court of Justice in the Patrio case, so we are in the middle of a case. And in the middle of some procedure, we'd be relieved of the Attorney General's office, we'd go into a new appointment procedure under this law and try to get closer to that statute of limitations. This is a story that cannot be proud of us, so it is not right for you to have submitted it in the middle of this procedure to the honourable colleagues who have tabled this law. Allow the proceedings to be closed and then we can discuss other matters such as the need to be discussed in order to clear up certain content, including the Prosecutor's Act, including the procedure for appointing the Attorney General. Some eminent lawyers have already put forward some suggestions and guidance on how this process can actually be improved.There are proposals, but for all of this we need a serious, sober, peaceful debate, that decisions will be well thought out and that they will also work in practice in the sense that we do very much to prevent corruption in Slovenia, where real corruption is the problem. [[…]] And I agree with all those who have also proposed an investigation into the operations of banks and regulators of the Bank of Slovenia regarding the debt in Slovenia, the consequences of the debt. TEM 6 is also an example that needs to be cleared and cleared. A bunch of things, too many of them. The Attorney-General is a very important function and, therefore, to introduce the law in this way, as has been put in this moment, he is really invested with one very purpose of taking advantage of this opportunity to try to protect his President. And I can only congratulate you, you're very good at this; but from the level of the country, this is very bad. Therefore, this law cannot be supported and this procedure for the adoption of the law must be completed as soon as possible, and this must also show by the National Assembly that we do not allow pressure on the Attorney-General and that we do not allow pressure on the judicial branch of power, just as a matter of political energy alone. If we are already going to amend legislation in court, it must be changed in a very thoughtful way, and even in the course of the previous debate, I reiterate, very sober and serious debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u191	Thank you very much. The text is by the proposer, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Madam President, Mr Weber is not your boss. You're his boss. He was talking nonsense, talking past the agenda, saying I don't know what's going on, just not what's on the agenda. But, Mr. Weber, we're on our way. Patricia and the D.A. have nothing to do with this thing. We demand, propose and seek to replace Mr Fischer, because he is illegal, full-fledged, and Strasbourg has nothing to do with this, he has appointed the Director-General. Second, because he acted corruptly and had nothing to do with the matter. That's it, that's the thing. The discussion you had made in 2008 was there, the Mayor of Markets from the famous LDS, formerly, telling me how I should not even mention the judgments of the Constitutional Court that something was wrong. You allowed yourself an attack on the Constitutional Court. You attacked the Constitutional Court. Just like you said a while ago, selling Telekom was a crime! Then your party voted for him in this National Assembly. How now? Then are your colleagues criminals, say, or what would have happened? It doesn't work together, does it? And one more thing. You're one of those, I don't know if you're a lawyer or not a lawyer, but look. [[advertising from the hall]] Then judge those "chigums" lawyers, as journalists say, the press term is "chigums" lawyers for those five who wrote that case about the taking away of the mandate. The Constitutional Court has not established any new standards. The Constitutional Court said something that the ancient Romans already knew — that you cannot convict someone who did not commit a crime. The Constitutional Court stated that the trial was contrary to Article 28; here it says that there must be a crime, only then can you start the trial. That said, it didn't set any new standards. This is what Mr Ude says, but he sees the left tomatoes to shine more, even though the sun shines from the right, for example. But he will certainly justify that the lions will mature sooner; and he will be on the stop You are talking about that the situation is being remedied on the prosecution. [[Incomprehensible]] How can corruption be saved, tell me. No corruption he committed in cooperation with Mr. Zalar, I'm sorry, but what were they doing?Oh, my God! The same person was written at the door in d.o. Before Škrlec was CEO, then Škrlec v. d., they wrote in front for 14 days, took a new law into their hands and named it new. Don't do things, don't do things that aren't right. Ask yourself how much damage you've done to the state. 130 was a share, you know, in those days, before you were illegal – you were acting unlawfully as Minister of Justice. Those are the words of your boss, Mr. Cerar. Well, if he says he's a constitutional lawyer, then that'll hold. Then there is no doubt that this is illegal. He said you did something illegal. And ask yourself how much damage is caused. 130 was a share, and today it's 88. Well? It's on. As far as Mr. Petty Officer is concerned, you like to mention him so much. I believe Mr. Tiny has made a mistake. When the Secretary of State ran for office, someone in 2007 asked me what I thought, what do you think, and you know him. And I strongly recommended the Secretary of State for that job because I only knew his professional references; but I did not know that he was a politician. But I didn't know it was a politician, because then you wouldn't because it was a professional city! That he's a politician, but I saw him lose his signatures. In fact, on the very day that we dealt with the interpretation of this national council against me, one day earlier he wrote a report, in 14 days. But you see, in 14 days, he's investigated everything. I have no comments on the content. But he looked into everything in 14 days, and he wrote a report. But when he was investigating Mrs. Katarina Kresal, it took a year and a half. And that's politics. And I believe Mr. Tiny has made a mistake. Be a little more serious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u193	The replica has Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u194	Yes, a replica or I find that I was misunderstood. If Mr. Gorenak has spoken of Telekom. My statement was that it was a national issue; and that is what is very important. I'm still saying that if you violate and threaten the defence of the Republic of Slovenia, that's what this is about. I spoke for myself, and I voted against selling Telekom myself, so I wouldn't mix the others. I have spoken for myself, and I can always speak honestly and to everyone in my eyes and speak precisely because of my actions. With regard to illegal conduct as Minister of Defence, you have rightly said, according to the President of the Government, that is, according to the words of the policy, I have acted unlawfully. Politics. Therefore, we need to be very careful about what we are doing in the government and in the National Assembly, so that such statements do not come to the fore. It is very difficult if a politician claims that someone has acted unlawfully and does not allow a competent authority or court to determine it. And that is why it is very important that we also adopt this law in a very thoughtful manner and in a way that we know why we are doing it; and that we are doing it primarily to make order in the country. It's not to protect someone or give someone else an advantage, a benefit, anything. These were my warnings in my debate. And I have pointed out that in this context we need to understand the whole development of Slovenian statehood from independence to today and that a number of examples have come up, which we must also analyse and prevent from happening in the future. The Attorney-General is certainly one of those functions that can be ensured through his own authority to prevent this from happening successfully. I submit that this law, which actually interferes with the work of the prosecution, makes it impossible for the prosecution to work effectively because it cuts it off over a period of time. They are certainly now, too, we can say, in a kind of uncertainty. I agree with the procedures identified in the appointment of Mr Škrlec, they have been clearly identified, I do not deny them; at the same time, I note that we all make too many decisions in the way that they fall due to the procedure and then the content remains hidden in the background. And in this case, it was also a matter of clearing up this procedure, but more importantly, it is the substantive work of the Attorney General, which is extremely important to prevent corruption, crime and other things that are happening.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u195	Thank you very much. The text is by Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u196	Thank you very much. I'm glad we agree, at least in the Constitutional Court. In fact, he found out there was no crime. Okay. As for the good work of the Attorney General's Office, I cannot agree. Mrs. Joly said well what time it was. Four years later, in three years, all those who caused the bank hole, if by its criteria, should be in prison. But Prosecutor Kozina said there would be proceedings in 15 years. That's not a good job for the D.A. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor. Get Mrs. Xenia Root Kramar ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished colleagues, distinguished representative of the government! I'm sorry, it's Friday afternoon, and I was thinking about giving some part of the debate to this marriage proposal that we help you, members of the coalition, because I see that some things are not going too well for you. On the other hand, the debate always opens up some of the topics that are incorrect, which are not true; and then one must also react at the time of his discussion. Most often, the one who leads, in this case a colleague, may have to warn people that they are completely out of the dark. The problem is, if I ever try to explain some things to my colleague Webber, you'll say that I've left this subject. If the darkness is wide, then I hope that these vats, Madam Vice President, will somehow be the same for me. The first fact is that society can always function, at least democratic society, in some system of brakes and balances. I hope that at least here we have some unity, without serious brakes and balances, this is not a democratic society. We know a former country that was not democratic, but I told you what documents it was written in; where there was no balance, where someone was without all control. Finally, we see where this country and that party have brought it. Now I see that those who have taken over this party, who are somehow the successors of this party, do not really understand how democracy works today. I once heard a proverb that the Slovenian could leave communism; the problem is whether communism from Slovenia will come out. This is this indoctrination, this philosophy that remains in your head. That's the big problem. And this is the difference between some of the social democrats we know in this territory of the former socialist countries and those I meet in Austria, Germany and so on, in countries that have a long-standing parliamentary democracy or a presidential system. To get back to the point. First, I'm going to answer a few outstanding dilemmas. Comrade Weber, you were talking about Telekom, you re-emphasized a pure lie. You were telling quite a lie about the fact that the defence-security system was compromised by the sale of Telekom. Look, colleague Weber, first thing. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u199	I'd like to ask for today's point. [[…]] [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I'm just saying, I'm asking for peace in the hall. Some of today's debates went over the agenda. I didn't warn anyone. Procedural? Not until Mr. Franz Breznik is finished, but then he can. Mr. Franz Breznik, if you'll excuse me, please proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u200	Excuse me, thank you for your proper guidance, Madam Vice President. I didn't want to go by, but there were so many untruths, so many lies told by my colleague Veber that I had to react. First of all, Mr. Janez Janša is not here to defend himself. Now, tell me, we should be the first, not only the Attorney General, to thank him for his cooperation, but the whole range of state prosecutors; you are saying that Janša must have been responsible for the arms trade. You're literally accusing him, you're already condemning him, or there's a lot of left-wing options in this modern country, and it's been in most governments. Now tell me, you should be first if this man really did this, so that most prosecutors should leave this species, because then this wish of yours would be fulfilled, that someone will be finally convicted and that he is behind bars. Now, see, Comrade Weber, all that has been done by prosecutors in Slovenia, and all they have succeeded is that one prominent or highest-ranking member of the SD has been imprisoned for the bars for the greatest disgrace that has ever occurred to us when he acted corruptly in the European Parliament before all of Europe. And look how they reacted, in Austria, they immediately imprisoned the MP, dumped him literally from all the institutions, including the civil institutions he was in. When all of Europe warned, colleague Thaler, your party member, is now in prison. This was a disgrace to the whole of Europe, a member of SD Thaler, the former foreign minister, who was literally given both hands in marmalade – in the middle of the European Parliament. That was a shame. Now you're talking, someone said something, and we've been repeating this mantra for ten years. You had the chance to lock up Janez Janša, prove to him that he was carrying large suitcases in the arms store; and the end, colleague Weber. So the D.A.'s incompetent because you didn't make it. You're condemning him. I would never allow myself to do that to my colleagues, but I know a lot of things, and I wouldn't have hoped to condemn a man for which there's not a single piece of evidence. Another matter, another lie you're telling. I'll be back on this affair with Telekom again. What you've done to use the Department's Intelligence Service is one of the biggest, in my opinion, affair, because I know this job, how it works. I also explained to you in those sessions that were held. And the fact that you're talking to me here, which I graduated from electrical engineering, exactly in the field of telecommunications, the title of my assignment, I just went to watch, design one feedback band on one communication line. I've been working at the Ministry, I've even done military intelligence on liaisons and liaison tactics, I know the whole system of relationships. And you talk to me here, you look me in the face and you say that the security system of the Ministry would be compromised if you sold it to Telekom. Do you realize that if this were to be seriously threatened that the Chief of Staff should resign, full colleges that have been working in liaisons all these years. You also expose and shame them, who are professionals, who are superior people and people. Look, it's just another one of your mantras and the untruths you're repeating; it's not true and you're lying, I'll tell you again as a colleague. The next issue is to get back to the essence of that debate. Balance systems in one country, the prosecution is part of, is one country's subsystem. The main task of the prosecution is to direct the pursuit and prosecution. This is the chief task of the prosecution. The main task of the Attorney-General is also to lead the policy of this persecution, i.e. the policy of priority based on material and other human resources, in which areas the policy will somehow go. Clearly, it is not possible to pursue everything that is in the country. Now let's see what things were going on that somehow hung over everything. Economic crime, corruption is a problem of a post-socialist society, not of Slovenia; of all societies and of other capitalist countries. Let's see how many of the stories that have been happening around not only the bank hole that we now know, but also the first stories that colleagues will be talking about on Monday on the Committee on Finance. When we started in 1993, we found out how many millions of dollars were missing in one of the main banks. What happened to the roles of those savers of the New Ljubljana Bank? I've explained this a number of times. What is the State Security Service? When did that money separate, where did she take that money, which banks? This has not been investigated, and the prosecution has not done its job. Of course, it was impossible to do so, even though we are speaking, because this prosecution acted in some philosophy, so that it would not persecute its own, that it was normal. There's nothing else we can say. Next story, 70-year-old Hude Cave. When people see this scene, they always wonder if it was possible. Who did this? Who made such a problem? I'm talking about it, colleagues, what the prosecution could do and what there isn't. What are the additional problems, why should the Attorney General resign? Listen a little bit, maybe you'll learn something new, because I see that unfortunately some things are not going well for you. It was a typical genocide, a crime against humanity in several stages. What happened? As early as 2009, a criminal indictment was filed, and the complete system of people who were in the third brigade of the CNJ and their commander, Benjamin Žižmond. I can just call him so we know who he was. The indictment was filed against this man, the man was alive at the time, the Attorney General was on the scene in May 2011, and he has a six-year term, which expires in 2017; so Žižmond was still alive. There were witnesses, even KNOW fighters, who had to kill in the Devil’s Cave under his command, testified, and made statements. Was anything done? Then Mr Žižmond died, and in December 2011, he died, so nothing was done. Then you accuse me or you accuse us of dealing with ideological topics. Of course, we do, because someone has to warn us because the prosecution doesn't prosecute these crimes, that was all self-evident. Today we call them some killing sites, each of these 630 pits is a crime scene for me that the prosecutor should be investigating. This is one society that was insensitive to mass crimes; and as such it continues to work, everything is fine. Colleagues and colleagues, you've been talking about a bank hole, billions of holes, which will make a whole bunch of our citizens live worse than we know. What happened, how many procedures are running? I don't see anything. My friend Gorenak used to say, at some point in time, this would have been resolved in foreign Western countries; unfortunately, we have nothing. Now, what is the point, Mr Attorney-General, is the first State Prosecutor's Council, President Meznareva said that the matter is not only legally corrupt, that the Administrative Court has also found abuse; but she said that it is such a nature, that they do not have to give up and that everything is fine. Minister of Justice, Mr Klemenčič, a very interesting statement that everyone should step back. First of all, let the KPK step back, which it had previously led, where it stood strongly for even the government to fall. And she fell because of him. Then, at the second stage, when he was no longer in this role, he speaks of everyone stepping back. So he denies his former position in the KPK. This is Minister Klemenčič's statement – let everyone step back now that we have also received the Attorney General with fingers in marmalade. And what's going on? To get back to the beginning. Does the system, I'll call it balance, work in this society, or does anyone have control? Does anyone who does not feel that he must withdraw from such a function because of all the violations we have listed today, or do we have leverage to do so? We're finding out we don't. And if we don't have, if there's such a void in such a society at such an important function, we have to do something. We are the legislative branch of power, we have the authority of the people in our hands, and it is our job to do this to change the law, so that such extraordinary cases do not happen to us again, as I have been happening to us for 80 days now in Slovenia; about 80 days the catharsis of this story. This is also the essence of the legislative branches of government, and we are all responsible, most of all, for those currently in the coalition. And that the opposition must now do what all sparrows do in all branches, and that is what is the ball for you, colleagues and colleagues who are currently in the coalition. I think the public, not just the fourth branch of power, the press wrote their own. I don't see a man, even in the press circles, protecting the Attorney General in this case. And one more thing. We talked earlier about the Judicial Service Act, we talked about a whole series of laws, including the so-called Lustration Act in Article 8, so-called Pučnik's Amendment. who's talking about who in this country is supposed to be no longer a judge and also a prosecutor. The Attorney-General has gone according to his previous role through this article, we can say that he has been unlawfully sent to this function. Of course, we were voted back then, my colleagues who were then; and that was it. That's when. You know, there's one of my professional references that I have. But one is my personal qualities, or my personal philosophy, or my personal values, which must be, which are necessary to occupy such an important function. And with his previous actions, Mr Fisher does not show that he could be the Attorney General. Because he has his own personal philosophy somewhere on another planet, on that red one, with the red gods, that's a fact. Someone who's been chasing people for remembering some of the victims, some genocidal acts, but for me, forgive me, if someone is symbolic about this function, we can say that we're being literally crazy. We make a fool out of people who have suffered in that regime, and we make a fool out of the constitution. The essence of the Constitution is the dignity of every Slovenian individual. And that's exactly what we came up with. We have come out of a massive violation of human rights and we have come out of the injustices that have arisen in this totalitarian regime; this was, we can say, the cradle of this new society that is supposed to be created on the basis of this constitution. It is precisely Mr Fisher who is a typical example of this symbol, which still exists. Someone who has violated human rights, who should not even be named, has now violated certain matters again. And he thinks it's like old times, if the party doesn't replace him, he'll be dead where he is. Fortunately, at least he's got a mandate now, at least he doesn't have a life sentence now, and he's got a six-year term. But, dear colleagues and colleagues, in 2015, if you do not feel that there are no brakes and balances in the prosecution service here; also those who disagree with our policy, who are now saying that those who are on the far left, even in this case when colleague Weber spoke about Patria. That's why you're replacing him. Because you are also likely to believe that the prosecutors were too weak and that John Janša did not prove corruption. At least from your personal movements, say, yes, we'll replace it because it's too much. So they're incompetent, according to you. Even if I come from you, Comrade Weber, they're incompetent. And once again I ask you, if I can speak it myself, at least I think I can speak an active German language, I have read what you said before; I have read this judgment. Have you read well, or have you read only that part of the translation from Del or Youth? I'd ask if you could read or find a court-martialed German-language admirer to actually translate the judgment into you, and you'll see what it says in there. I'll be too long to quote everything. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I don't think there's any real argument as to why my colleague Fisher would not be sent to the historical dump site, at least in the State's Attorney's Office. I have nothing against him if we teach at some private college. If he has an exam, let him open a law firm elsewhere, then he will advise the government, and then do it again — you know — to a small office and he will have a flat-rate contract. All this can be done if you've always been a member of the left-hand options. The services are provided, but such a person cannot be at the top as the Attorney General. Let it go, fellas. I think that's the last thing. I think you will all deeply agree that sins are too great. If we appear to be some serious European democracy, as some serious European society, we speak, we use expressions of zero tolerance and so on, colleagues and colleagues, then we will unfortunately have to thank Mr Fisher more than ever for his work. I do not understand, I do not understand that you do not support these proposals, which are proposed in this amendment to this law by the Slovenian Democratic Party. And that you don't argue. I do not understand that the government is failing to fall at the expense of the KPK, the Attorney-General – if that is Bellko Fischer – is more important than the government. Even though what caused the government's downfall was then eliminated, that's the worst. We can't put the government back together, there's no way. But the Attorney General has reigned for 80 days and has demonstrated his power. It shows its power. Then the State Prosecutor's Council, the people who are subordinates to it, ultimately making them their entire career, because they are also likely to be evaluated, given their official reviews, made recommendations, on the basis of which everyone has higher wages, lower wages; this man is still there. And that's one group of people. And after that statement she made, let me finally say, "Mennareva," and I don't agree with my colleagues. Not only the Attorney-General, the entire State Prosecutor's Council has to step down in my opinion, because if they recognize that this is something small, all these accusations and the legal cases that they are; then they all belong together, they can't be prosecutors anymore. All those who are in the State Prosecutor's Council, which they make up, together with President Mežnarje and Mr Fisher. That's my suggestion. Excuse me, fellows, my suggestion is that everyone resigns together because someone who can represent that this is nothing at the top of the state's attorney's office, I'm sorry, these people don't belong in these kinds. Their tolerance for corruption is too great, and then such people cannot explore the bank holes and all the other things that have happened to us. I will not talk about economic crime, about sophisticated crimes that are difficult to track, for which we need heavy experts, including resources and everything else. This does not belong to Slovenia in 2015. And the fact that we are talking for 80 days about how we are going to thank Mr Fisher for his work, I'm sorry, that indicates some incompetence in the work of politics. And in the Slovenian Democratic Party, currently in some serious opposition role, we are aware of this. We are aware of this and believe that there is a legal basis for this to be resolved, that these voids will end. And politics has that power. And the essence of politics is to make decisions. We went to the elections, and we showed that we were ah and oh, that we would decide within someone and that we would decide what we would do. And the worst part is to assume that we don't decide either way to leave things the way they are. That's what's worst. My colleagues and colleagues, at the end of the day, I would like to ask you to consider spending the night knowing that you are aware that we are being watched by the public, that the public has an opinion, has come to believe that Mr Fisher no longer judges this function, that he has exceeded all the limits of healthy taste and that he must leave. And since he is not leaving alone because there is a real void, what Comrade Gorenak said must be done to help him. And we don't hide it. But it's not just Mr. Fisher. It's just that this kind of thing would never happen again. Maybe we'll find some other area where something like this could happen, where there's no brake and no balance like I said at the end. We have a brake here today, we can implement this brake into the legislation, we can shut down, someone will have to step out so that someone who is not burdened by it can come in; he shows a new face, including some new policy, that internal one within the state prosecutor's office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u202	Thank you for your word. President-in-Office, I would like to make a procedural suggestion that you interrupt the debaters who will go beyond this topic, because I did not discuss Telekom, and I responded in an explanation in the reply to Dr. Gorenak's debate on Telekom. However, I certainly did not discuss this, so that the chairman can quietly interrupt anyone who would come from this topic on the agenda. There is no need to invoke or take into account that Weber was talking about Telekom. I just explained what Dr. Gorenak somehow mispronounced some of the claims concerning Telekom. And the President, as soon as I have completed this procedural proposal, would also like to request a replica of Mr Breznik. I conclude and at the same time ask for a replica of Mr Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u203	We have another procedural one, Mrs. Ksenija Krenjak Kramar. Don't you? It says here a procedural proposal. Mr. Janko Weber, please, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u204	President, I have a replica of Mr. Breznik. Mr. Breznik, I don't judge anyone, I have never in my life accused anyone, and I don't want him to be wrongly convicted. And I don't want to follow the example of, I don't know, the Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Cerar, who accused me of illegal activity. These are things I don't approve of. Once again, I stress that I do not want anyone to be convicted, not guilty at all; and I have never filed any complaints in my life. Those statements you made don't hold. Even with regard to weapons, I didn't talk about names, because if we mention one, then a lot of others have to be mentioned, because there were a lot of them. We're doing the wrongs maybe to those we don't mention. I just said that this was one of the cases that in Slovenia alone caused a whole series of problems in pre-emptive corruption, because we did not clear it. And not just because of one, because of a whole bunch of people who've been involved. I didn't name anyone by name, and even in this case, when you had John Janša in mind, you mentioned him; not me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u205	I'm sorry, we have to check the clock first. I'm sorry. That's good. There's no replica to the replica. Here you go, Dr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u206	Thank you. On behalf of the proposer. Mr Weber, you said earlier that you did not mention Janša; but earlier I see that you did not read the Austrian judgment, but you read Tony Perić in the Journal, I have now checked. Toni Perić is a humorist, so you read humorous articles about the judgment in Austria. But let's just leave it at that. That would ask you, take the hypothetical situation that we are in the same party, hypothetically, to be called Znjih, because it doesn't matter; and you are the president of this party. Then, as a member of this party, I am sentenced in Austria to be, not me; it is said in Austria in some judgment that someone from Austria carried 900 000 and gave them to me for the purposes of getting them to you and the client. [[…]] Hypothetically, the party is called Zhenj; you are the president and I am a member. Tell me, what crime did you and your client commit? You didn't do anything, so it's wrong to quote stories like that written by humorist Toni Perić. Now once again, the question where the young people went, Christmas and Zorčič and the other gentlemen went, and once again I ask you, let your language be untied, Mr Stare, damn it. Who is this invisible force that forces you to protect Mr. Fisher now? Don't wrap your eyes. Why do you now protect him, but tell me that he is not; there by coffee and outside. What, who – I want to help you – is the one who breaks your hands? I feel sorry for you. Yes, Mr. Old, and so do you, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u207	Thank you very much. I think Mr. Beznik has raised his hand for the replica. Mr. Beznik, you raised your hand, then it's procedural, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u208	I would, Madam Vice President, still ask you to warn my colleague, Vebra, because he keeps talking about some family with guns. You are still accusing the people who worked at the Ministry of Defence at the time and sold weapons to Croats. You're still accusing this. Please, if this case has never even come into pursuit, please finish this. Excuse me. I hope you do. When I was a day ago because you and the current mayor in Kočev had a local argument that you were in prosecution; I'm sick because I know you're probably wrong. I know you've been immediately prosecuted, and all the other people who committed major crimes are not. And it's hard for me to have my colleagues put in jail on the basis of rumors. I believe this is where your guilt came from, Comrade Webber. Really, honestly. So please, let's not charge some cases where there's no evidence. Please, we are professionals at least in 2015.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u209	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State, Mr Darko Stare, has applied. Gradually, please, Mrs. Xenia Root Kramar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u210	Thank you very much. I'd ask first, and then I'd make my own proposal. Here I have today's agenda for today's debate, and at this point today it is written by the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office. I'm asking the chairman to take into account today's agenda. This debate, which is now taking place here, is not, in my opinion, in this context. Please stick to what we got on the bench today as the agenda. Please. My procedural proposal is that we are talking about the State Prosecutor's Office Act and the proposal by the proposer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u211	Thank you very much. All I have to say is that Mr Branko Grims had a very broad debate in his introduction, and after that I think it was impossible to go back. And now things have to be done to some extent. Thank you very much. Mr Darko Stare has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u212	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I did not intend to advertise because the debate did not address the content of this point. Therefore, at your request, I will now apply the matter to today's agenda, and give you an answer in this context, depending on the findings which are not related to today's debate. You are well aware that I do not want to react alone to unworthy, inappropriate and unseemly statements by anyone, especially if this is done by state officials. It just seems irrational to me. I understand them, but I don't accept them at the same time, because I know they're in special situations and under pressure if they're seen by a government authority. That's understandable to me, but I don't accept it, and that's why I don't respond. I repeat that because you obviously don't want to hear it. However, today's debate, in particular the members of the proposed groups, strengthens my conviction that the opinion of the Government is very meaningful and well founded, because the proposed changes or objectives that I have seen in the debate, that we all agree and are legitimate – so that the system of state prosecutorial action improves, enhances transparency, quality and efficiency, as well as the quality of the staff that operate and decide in the prosecution system. However, we obviously have different views and choices on the way to this goal. The essence of the rule of law is that we are able to respect laws, bodies acting on the basis of laws and decisions taken on the basis of these laws. We certainly have the right to disagree with these decisions, but we have a duty to respect them. The current regulation provides that certain authorities shall decide on the liability and alleged or identified irregularities and their weight. In this case, this is the State Prosecutor's Council. He made a decision that many disagree with, and I do not, and the Minister also said how he would have acted if he had different powers; but he is part of the rule of law and the rule of law that we also respect what we do not agree with. It is the acquisition of democratic regimes and civilizations as such. However, it seems to me that if I return now to this proposal, which is legitimate, as I said in two words earlier, to lower standards, it reduces the transparency achieved by the law in force, and increases the politicisation of decision-making in the appointment and resolution of the Attorney General's Office and the heads of the prosecutions. The purpose of the government is quite contrary. He would like to consider the general debate, in particular with the building blocks of justice, which will then be the operators and operators of these obligations, duties and laws that will be adopted to adopt this together. Only in this way do I believe that the implementation of the new, strengthened, better regulation can work better. The fact is, people have different opinions. The fact is, individuals can have a different view of the same if it takes some time. You're a fine example, Mr. Gorenak. And I attach this to the content of today's debate, namely the state prosecutor's law. In 2011, when the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, currently in force, was adopted, your views on the law were diametrically opposed as you are now applying. Today you expect the government to use its powers, increase control and influence so that we can just change on the neck. At that time, your words were that the prosecution was not part of the executive branch of power and could not be. We know that it is part of the executive branch, as the Constitutional Court has also said. Very often, unfortunately, it is not conceptually different between the judicial authorities and the judicial authorities. The prosecution is a judicial body and is part of the executive branch of power. Your position at the time was that it must never be part of the executive branch and must be completely organisationally independent; the prosecution organisation must be completely independent of the executive branch. At the same time, you also said that you do not support any form of control over the prosecution. You have called on Mr Fischer to oppose the proposed law and to listen to his fellow prosecutors because we are interfering – or when it was before you as a Member – with the independence and independence of the state prosecutor's organisation. Look, this is perfectly legitimate. You had such an opinion at the time because you had some other information, experience, and so on. I believe in good faith that's what you thought legitimately. Like today, I believe that in good faith you are legitimately proposing some solutions. I used this case because I want to strengthen my awareness of the importance of respecting another’s opinion, even if we do not agree with it. And that's the essence of the whole story. And, as I say, let us be aware, we have a legal arrangement with which we are obviously not all fully satisfied, but we must change it according to the procedure envisaged for this. At the final stage, it was obvious today that the debate had developed around the transitional provision that the purpose of this proposed law was to replace the Attorney General. That's legitimate. But you could also refer to this law as the replacement of the Attorney General; you did not do this because it would strengthen your awareness because you are aware in this legal culture that this is not appropriate and hygienic. There has been some debate, which has shown that this is not appropriate in modern democratic legal countries, that a large system is changing for a single person. I therefore expect that, as we have also set ourselves up in the Government's normative programme, creative debate and cooperation with all parliamentary groups, and that, at the end of the year, we will have before us a proposal that will be acceptable and will contribute over the long term to making the prosecution's organisation more qualitative and effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Applicant, please, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Congrats on politics. Congratulations on your politics. You're going to beat Mr. Webber a little bit. I can accept what you're saying that you don't want to confront Mr. Fisher. Take a look at the video – a warm handshake and a smiley face. I say hello to Mr Fischer on a good day, if I see him on the road, he looks away, that's the level of his political culture, and I don't give him my hand, so we add psychology, and we see that this answer is a falsified answer. [[…]] Mr Weber reads Tony Perić's humorist earlier, and you read The Youth of 2011. The youth wrote this in 2011. But when I spoke about the independence of the decision and the position of the prosecutor's organization, if you read it well, the Constitutional Court's decision does not say that it is an executive part of the authority, has never answered it; but the Constitutional Court's decision said that we cannot directly count it in the judiciary, but that it is closer to the executive branch than a self-service. That's what the Constitutional Court said. As far as the rest of you are concerned, when you were talking about me inviting Mr. Fisher to resist. Of course, I called on Mr Fischer to resist such behaviour as Mr Zalar did during Mrs Brezigar's time; which raised the question – the question put by the Member of Parliament – beware of the question raised by one of the Zares Members, sitting there, the flower of Zalokar Orazem was – it was sent to the prosecution by a van of investigators who had been throwing away the Ljubljana Prosecutor's Office for six months. For the time of Mrs. Brezigar. And I told him either as a candidate or as he passed the law, that I hope he wouldn't let that happen. That was it, not politically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u215	Thank you very much. The word has Mrs. Xenia Root Kramar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u216	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to reiterate today, as I said at the outset, that today is not about defending anyone. Today it is about defending the independence and independence of the judiciary. That's what this is about. As my predecessor, respected colleague Jože, has already said, for the functioning of the rule of law and for raising standards and providing a positive environment, justice is one of the builders. And that's why we need trust. And that is why we are here today defending independence and independence; and exactly so. Many times we disagree with a decision, but it is because of that respect and faith that we respect this independence and independence. And we're in this place to make sure. Let's make sure we're on top of this. It's a legal state. And today we're not talking to ad personnel, that would be wrong. That is why I believe, as I have already said in my position, that if any anomalies in any system show up, that they require a serious thought, a weighty position; and this will happen in the future, we have heard today. The Normative Programme provides that we, together with stakeholders, will consider how the anomalies that have proved to be can be eliminated in what way. And we place you correctly and correctly in the system, so that it will function in such a way as to ensure this independence and independence, build on trust and strengthen the rule of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Now we're at the end of the list. The government has given up. Mr. Speaker, please, Dr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u218	I have just so much time to answer Mrs. Root. It's a stand-alone trial. Where do you see the point of stand-alone justice? This is where, just before, you said about the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, which aims to remedy the situation in the Attorney-General's Office, specifically – to replace the Attorney-General's Office because he acted unlawfully and corruptly. That's what we've got, I've got it on the agenda. [[…]] But if I take it that way, as you say, that it is necessary to ensure the independence and independence of the judiciary and so on, it is independent now — conditional. Why conditional? Yes, yes, it is conditional because the criteria for the independence of the judiciary in the image of Mr Masleša were put by Ambassador Dar Lavtijar Bebler, who is together with all the left parties – Mr Weber was here and voted in favour – very clearly said: Šorli as a candidate who speaks three languages and so on cannot be appointed chief of court because he has forgiven Paul Rupar. No, he was a member of the Senate that pardoned Rupar; as Shorli voted, we don't even know. However, Mr Maslesha, who in 1990 threw his weapons at the table like this, could talk about how JLA would carpet Slovenia. You see, this is a political impact on justice, and that is why it is a question of independence. We need to ensure independence here, not anywhere else. But we can agree here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u219	Thank you very much. We still have time to discuss this. Anyone else who would like to discuss it, please sign up, I'll give you a chance. And the government and the proposer hand in hand because they don't have that option. Please sign up. Here you go, proposer Dr. Vinko Gorenak, five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u220	You said with your hand, I think we have this habit. I can conclude today, even for the media, that we have some clever conclusion. At the faculty of education, I was taught that you had an introduction, a core and a conclusion. Now we're getting to the bottom of this. Thus, the conclusion is clear, absolutely clear; we have the Attorney-General, who acted unlawfully, we have the Attorney-General, who acted corruptly, we have the State Prosecutor's Council, which is subordinated to him; not on paper, he is independent under the Constitution, he is independent under law and is subject to it by law. There are five prosecutors in the State Prosecutor's Council who are subordinate to him; and he also decides on their progress if you want. Then we have two retired prosecutors who were once his associates. Then there are two other constitutional lawyers who are his associates from before, from the Constitutional Court. So we have the State Prosecutor's Council, which is on paper and legally independent, but in fact it depends on Mr Fisher. The State Prosecutor's Council said there was corruption, there was corruption, he said there was also illegal behaviour by Mr Fischer; but he will remain where he is. And then there was politics, there was a minister, there was the President of the Government, and there was the Secretary of State today, both in some manner, that it was necessary to keep a clean face in front of people. You are very difficult to do as someone did in this hall today. And what happened? Both of you said you'd expect Mr. Fisher to step down, but you didn't tell him to step down. By the way, yesterday and today I read in the media how the Foreign Minister carried some documents to court and said: I expect you to release this prime minister from Kosovo. I agree that he was illegally detained here, that is, but he cannot go to court and say – I expect you to decide that way and that way. All of this points to what? This shows that the policy in the image of the current coalition of ministers and the President of the Government is the one that assumes all responsibility from today. We have all the responsibility for the situation in this area, which is called – we have the Attorney General, who acted illegally and corruptly, and we support it. You here, here's the border, you support it, that's the reality of today. But in the meantime, we were talking, I don't know what else we've got, we've got little Janez Janša, not Mr. Webber, but what we want. By the way, the last few words, I'm just reading here, Canada will not hand over Wolf Slovenia. It is also logical if we work nonsense in Slovenia. That's right. In short, the conclusion is clear, as of today, it is also on your hands, ladies and gentlemen, Monday, when the vote will take place, fingerprints proving support for illegal and supporting corruption. It's been up here a long time. What the police put there — and the police will not set anything up here — is a few weeks up or a month. I think that this will remain on your hands permanently, from Monday onwards, when you support the occupation of the job held by the Attorney General; by keeping him there as he is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-19-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u221	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to decide that a proposal for a law is appropriate for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timetable, on Monday, 22. 6. In the context of the votes. I hereby end the 21st item of the agenda and also interrupt the 9th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed on Monday at 1 p.m. Members and Members of Parliament, please take all your materials and colleagues out of the Chamber, if possible, as a result of the implementation of the Summer Museum Power project, which is also joined by the National Assembly. Thank you.
