ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 9th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I inform you that Mr Janez Komljanec, Member of the National Assembly, died in 2002-2004. We'll honor his memory with a minute of silence. / minute silence/ I am informed that the following Members and Members are unable to attend today's meeting: Mrs Iva Dimic from 17.30 p.m., Mrs Erika Dekleva from 16 p.m., Mrs Tanja Cink from 19:00 p.m., Mr Tomaž Lisec, Mr Ljubo Žnidar, Dr Matej T. Vatovec, Mr Janez Janša and Mr Igor Zorčič until 12 noon. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We move to a vote on the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. Please check the functioning of the voting devices. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 63 votes against 1. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 9th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. Agenda item — Proposal for a rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the year 2015. The proposal for a budget rebalancing was submitted by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to present the proposal for a rebalancing of the budget for 2015, I give the floor first to the President of the Government, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u2	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In a relatively short period of time, the government has also prepared the National Assembly for consideration and has now proposed a second proposal for a budget rebalancing. In November, the National Assembly considered and adopted the 2014 budget balance and, at the end of January 2015, the Government submitted to it a proposal for a budget rebalancing for 2015. All this intensity in the preparation of the budgets' rebalancing reflects the serious intention of the Government and the National Assembly to take care of sustainable public finances now and in the future, thus fulfilling one of the important assumptions for the successful financial, economic and, ultimately, social development of society. Let me recall, however, that from September to today, in addition to the measures for fiscal consolidation, we have already prepared several amendments to the laws, have actively taken some remedial measures regarding last year's floods, have successfully negotiated and negotiated with representatives of various social spheres and groups, and have finally concluded a social agreement with the social partners. Of course, all of this is just the beginning, for we have many challenges and challenges ahead. We have recently witnessed the recovery of the Slovenian economy. After the recession, we expect an estimate that growth for 2014 has risen sharply above 2% of GDP. Unemployment, which was 9.6% in November 2014, is declining. The downward trend is also expected in the future. The export share, which is the main factor in economic growth, remains high. Despite current encouraging forecasts of economic growth and better labour market indicators, the economic and social situation in the country remains extremely demanding. While an optimistic forecast of economic growth does not yet mean that we have long-term and economic growth in Slovenia, further action is needed in various areas. In particular, appropriate measures in the area of public finances are needed. With the continued, excessive deficit of long-term and stable economic growth, which can provide us with a quality level of social state, we will not achieve it. Public finances are thus now at the heart of our attention and are forcing us to take decisive action. Only long-term sustainable public finances can provide us with a solid basis for stable economic growth, with further political stability, effective rule of law and, finally, a stable and adequately active banking sector. Slovenia, as a member of the EU and in particular as a member of the European Monetary Union, is committed to respect common rules and restrictions. The basic orientations, together with the objectives, already give us a common strategy for growth and jobs called the Europe 2020 Strategy. This framework also includes the process of the European Semester of Economic Governance, which has been exposed to the cycle of economic and fiscal policy coordination in the European Union. On the basis of this cycle, Member States must align their budgetary and economic policies with the objectives and rules agreed at European Union level. As part of the European Semester, Slovenia must also take into account the Council's recommendations on measures and reforms in the field of public finances, banking, the labour market, business governance, the business environment and the broader approach to preventing macroeconomic imbalances. In the area of corporate governance, the debt and restructuring process, they run parallel, with the process of improving the management of the country's capital investments and increasing their efficiency, including deliberate privatisation. At the same time, the government is planning further measures to increase competitiveness, reduce administrative barriers and improve the efficiency of the public sector. Slovenia has been in the excessive deficit process since November 2009, which means it must lead fiscal policy by ensuring a sustained and sustainable reduction of the country's deficit below 3% of GDP in 2015. For long-term development-oriented public finance policy is essential, clearly limiting public financial expenditure. Planning and setting targets is important. We must be aware that we must not spend more than we create in the medium and long term. The government and the National Assembly have already taken the first step in the right direction by adopting and implementing the 2014 state budget rebalancing, as we have achieved the country's projected deficit of 3.4% of GDP, following a preliminary assessment, without taking into account one-off measures. With the 2015 proposal for a state budget rebalancing, we want to continue with responsibility and determination in this direction and to achieve the objective to which we committed ourselves in the 2014 Stability Programme and, as we say, to reduce the country's deficit below 3% of GDP. With the revised structure of the proposed budget rebalancing, the government follows two key objectives: firstly, promoting economic growth, and secondly, increasing employment. The objectives are also pursued by all other systemic solutions and measures, thus creating the conditions for a certain coordination of pensions and social transfers for the next year after a long period of time. We have also committed ourselves to this by the coalition parties in our agreement. The changed circumstances both in the macroeconomic environment and due to legislative changes have contributed to the necessity of preparing a proposal for a rebalancing. We have taken this as a challenge and, as an important opportunity, as well as as a state budget, we have focused heavily on investment, which will contribute to further growth. The remaining European funds available to Slovenia from the past financial perspective will also contribute greatly to this. As far as possible, we have avoided radical interventions in individual parts of the system, as we do not want to cause less demand or consumption through fiscal policy restrictiveity. We have sought and adopted various sectoral and horizontal measures, both on the income side and on the expenditure side, which are jointly sustainable for all sides. This has also worked through long-standing and for all sides arduous negotiations, which have led to important compromises and many good solutions through constructive and open dialogue and joint efforts. We all had to accept compromises. In order to reach an agreement on the final proposal for the budget rebalancing, all ministers or ministries also contributed a significant share of the reduction in their respective areas. Nevertheless, we will be implementing many investment projects this year. Among other things, we will invest in the completion of emergency centres across Slovenia, invest in the construction of certain sections of the railway line, improve the water supply system in some parts of Slovenia, we will spend some €80 million for flood safety, and, among other things, we will create a state computer cloud, which we want to save on long-term resources for the state information system, if I only mention some things. Dear Members and Members! If we want to get out of the crisis in the long term, we still need to respond to the unstable situation as uniform, as connected and economically strong as possible. I believe that we are on the right track and that the proposed budget rebalancing for 2015 is an important part of this path. Let me reiterate that this balance is necessary, with the aim of achieving the commitments made while at the same time stimulating the economy and employment. Let us not forget, however, that it is not only our own commitments to the European, that is, our legal order, because the consolidation of public finances and the cessation of further indebtedness are essential, primarily for the normal and effective management of their own country. This is our key commitment to citizens and citizens and future generations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u3	In order to present the proposal for the 2015 budget rebalancing, I also give the floor to Dr Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u4	Dear Members and Members! You have before you the proposal for a budget rebalancing for 2015. It is the seventh year after the start of the crisis, and I must say, after all the rebalances and budgets that I have accepted or struggled with in my life, it has been far more difficult. As soon as the government began its mandate, it is said that in September last year, we started preparing for this rebalancing, so it took almost five months. There were very hard, difficult negotiations in between. And we need to understand that this is probably one of the most difficult rebalancings that we will accept, because we expect that we are at the bottom and that from here on out we will have economic growth and that there will be a crisis behind us. This budget also follows this objective. With this proposal, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia continues the policy of balancing public finances, as already stressed in the Prime Minister's speech. The Government also wants this document to continue the path to stable and sustainable economic growth. In particular, I would like to stress that without economic growth it is not possible to achieve a balance of public finances, at least not sustainable. The three main objectives are set out in this document. The first objective is to draw 100% of European funding for the old financial perspective 2007-2013. The second objective is to reduce the country's deficit below 3% of GDP according to ESA standards in 2015, by which the government committed itself to the Stability Programme 2014 and the maximum public financial support for gross domestic product growth, i.e., maximum focus on investment and material costs. The 2015 budget rebalancing was urgently needed, primarily because the revenue projections in the adopted budget were based on the macroeconomic baselines of the 2013 Umarje autumn forecast. As you know, in 2013 a significant difference was predicted, such as today's situation, not only in the projections of Umarje, but also in all international institutions. These starting points, of course, are now substantially changed. In forecasting revenue in the preparation of the 2015 budget rebalancing proposal, we have taken into account the preliminary implementation for 2014 and this new macroeconomic forecast from Umara's winter forecast of economic trends, which predicts 2% of economic growth for 2015, but at the same time lowers the forecast of price growth. I would like to stress this in particular because price increases will be extremely low, practical growth is only real growth, but of course the budget is made on a nominal basis. In addition, changes in circumstances and factors of some major groups of revenue and expenditure also affected the trends of public financial objectives. The main derogations stem from the loss of property tax revenues, the unplanned debt interest expenditure effected after the 2015 budget, the under-planned ongoing transfer to the ZPIZ due to the adoption of the new Slovenian State Holding Act in spring 2014, which introduced changes in the financing of the regular expenditure of the Kad pension fund and the changes in the situation with regard to EU funds. The planned budget deficit for 2015 in the adopted budget was 2.4% of gross domestic product, but these changes, which I mentioned and some others, because we did not accept structural changes, but we only accepted temporary budget changes, would lead to a 5% deficit if we had a so-called spontaneous scenario. It was therefore necessary to introduce measures that brought this 5% deficit below 3% of gross domestic product. If we look at it this way, let's say just a drop in property taxes and an increase in interest, they contribute to about 1 percent of the additional deficit. Therefore, all these measures, already mentioned by the Prime Minister, were necessary for the period up to 31. 12. The adoption of laws, the adoption of various amendments to other regulations in order to comply with these rules of the Stability and Growth Pact in 2015, and for the first time since the start of the crisis have a deficit of less than 3 % of gross domestic product. Allow me to briefly present to you the specific estimates of revenue and expenditure. The 2015 draft budget rebalancing totals €8 billion 562 million in revenue, which is less than €64 million in the 2015 budget adopted. The maximum drawdown is estimated on the tax revenue side, which is, of course, due to the failure to enforce the real estate tax law, but the Government has taken several horizontal and sectoral measures that will ease this drop: first maintaining the fourth income class, then raising the rate of the financial service tax, increasing the rate of the insurance tax, increasing environmental taxes due to CO2 emissions, increasing the efficiency of the collection of public taxes, changes in the student labour system and other measures. Some of these measures are only extended from the previous period, some of them are replaced by some that are no longer in force. We are therefore planning EUR 6 billion 870 million of tax revenue in the draft budget rebalancing, which is still about 300 million more than such revenues were realised in 2014, which is, according to 2014, EUR 578 million of non-tax revenue and EUR 40.7 million of capital revenue, donations and transfer revenue. We are also planning a billion €72 million of the EU budget received. The proposal for a rebalancing provides for expenditure, the right side of expenditure, totalling EUR 9 billion 947 million, which is more than 461 million in the approved budget and 292 million more than in 2014. The proposal for a rebalancing is on the expenditure side, as already mentioned, aimed at providing for legal obligations and 100 % of EU funding, and therefore the maximum increase in expenditure is intended for the use of EU funds and associated Slovenian participation. With regard to integrated expenditure, it should be stressed that these are falling by EUR 50 million in relation to the implementation of 2014, which is justified by the measures already approved by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at the meeting on 22 October in order to ensure a total reduction in expenditure in other areas. Some of these measures include: centralisation of public procurement, centralisation of state information technology, measures to reduce labour costs, measures in the area of co-financing of municipalities, rationalisation of economic public services, replacement of certain non-refundable subsidies in return and other sectoral measures by the ministries. The expenditure cut shows that of the total of €9.9 billion of expenditure, EU spending is €1 billion 308 million, with Slovenia participating €229 million, i.e. 15.5% of the expenditure side is linked to EU spending, since 2015 is the last year when we can still draw on the previous financial perspective 2007-2013. The programme classification, which is important, shows that compared to the past year's consumption, according to 2014, significantly more resources are allocated to the rebalancing of programmes and commitments, i.e. 134 % more, environmental protection and environmental infrastructure by 67 % more, and health care by 23 %. In this context, I would like to point out that the 2015 rebalancing target is markedly investment, as I have already mentioned, as compared to 2014 spending, the purchase and construction of core funds is increasing by 41% and investment transfers by 30%, i.e. investment expenditure totalling around 30%. Let me list some major investment projects that have not yet been mentioned by the Prime Minister. From the rail transport area the reconstruction of the railway line Divača-Koper, reconstruction of the railway Prague-Hodoš. This is a relatively high expenditure of 100 million 57 million. Upgrading of the railway section of Slovenska Bistrica–Pragersko and so on. From the area of roads of Škofja Loka, the national programme of motorways. In the areas of water supply and wastewater treatment, projects are planned on the Soča river, Upper Sava, Mure, Ljubljana and so on. In the field of information society, larger projects: the establishment of a state computer cloud, the construction of central information infrastructure, the establishment of optical connectivity for educational and research institutions and, for example, some other major projects that we know: Planica Ski Centre, Gymnastics Center Ljubljana. This proves that the 2015 budget rebalancing proposal actually follows the objective of increasing investment and, as we know, increasing investment works multiplely on GDP growth and therefore such a restructuring of the budget. Among the other expenditure, I should specifically point out the interest that, despite the nominally higher debt situation than in the previous year, due to the environment of low interest rates in 2015 and, of course, due to the decrease in Slovenia's relative interest rates vis-à-vis other countries, due to the return on good access to financial markets, these interest rates will be lower by 35 million than in 2014. The nominally lower labour costs will also be in line with an agreement with the unions, the subsidies will be lower due to the diversion to reimbursement. There is a slight decrease in the volume of funds allocated to transfers to individuals and households, but the reason for the reduction is not in the reduction of social transfers rights, but in the context of the reduction in the number of beneficiaries of parental benefits and the financial compensation for unemployment, due to economic growth and better employment. If I move on to the deficit area. The proposal for a rebalancing 2015 foresees a deficit in the state budget after the cash flow. After the cash flow, we are also working on a budget of €385 million in Slovenia, which amounts to 3.62% of GDP. After a correction to the accounting flow, in particular part of the EU's funds retained by the European Commission until the final report on the effectiveness of EU funds drawback for the period 2007-2013, and taking into account the expected balances of other units of the country's sector, we expect the country's deficit under the ESA methodology in 2015 to be below 3 % of GDP. In our own words, we will invest in getting them back later from the European Commission. This assumption of these funds increases the deficit, the cash flow deficit compared to the deficit in the accounting methodology used by Europe to measure, or we comply with the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact and the fiscal pact. Your Honor, allow me to re-emphasize. While the proposal for a rebalancing increases expenditure on the adopted budget for 2015, it does reduce resources in a wide range of areas. In doing so, we cannot all be satisfied, as each of us has contributed to the rationalisation of our area, but the adoption of the 2015 budget balance represents a further step towards the goal of balancing public finances. The rebalancing is also a strong investment focus in 2015, which will contribute to the promotion of economic growth and to sustainable public finances over the long term. Slovenia has already implemented certain measures on the path of consolidation of public finances in the past, but additional measures and consistent implementation of those measures are needed to ensure long-term and sustainable growth, and I would like to stress here the mantra which is highlighted in the European Union, and this is structural reforms. It takes into account all of the above, I propose to the National Assembly that the proposal for a rebalancing be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u5	The draft budget balance was considered by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as the parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of Mrs Urska Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. Hello, everyone! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 19th emergency session. 2. 2015 as a parent working body considered the draft rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015 submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. The Committee was provided with opinions from interested labour bodies, which took note of the proposal for a rebalancing and did not adopt their amendments and the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, which supports the proposal for a rebalancing. During the course of business, 41 amendments were tabled by qualified applicants. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Government, representatives of Umar and the Syndicate of Education, Education, Science and Culture and the Police Union attended the meetings of the Committee. The initial explanation of the balance presented was provided by the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, who gave an accurate account of the reasons for the submission of the balance for 2015. In doing so, she presented estimates of revenue and expenditure in the 2015 budget rebalancing proposal, where the government is planning €8 billion 562 million in revenue. The expenditure of the state budget provides for expenditure totalling EUR 9 billion 947 million, which means more than €461.8 million than in the budget adopted and 292 million more than in 2014. In the proposal for a budget rebalancing compared to last year's spending, a substantial number of funds are allocated to intervention programmes and commitments for environmental protection and infrastructure, local self-government and health care. The proposal for a rebalancing is investment-oriented, as compared to 2014 consumption, the purchase and construction of basic funds is increasing by 41% and investment transfers by 20%. The bulk of this increase is at the expense of investments linked to European funds. This structure of government budget revenue and expenditure means that the proposal for a rebalancing foresees a deficit in the state budget following a cash flow of €1 billion 385 million, which amounts to 3.62% of GDP. The government thus estimates that the total deficit of the state sector according to the ESA methodology in 2015 will be by 3% of GDP or 2,89% more precisely. The Government’s assessment is that, given the circumstances, the proposed balance is appropriate and constitutes a good basis for the implementation of the budget or for public funding in 2015. The Director of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development briefly presented the general economic picture for 2014 and said that the proposal for a rebalancing was based on the expected economic developments that were drawn up in Umar last December. In the debate on the tabled rebalancing, some Committee members stressed that the proposal for a 2015 budget rebalancing was unrealistic, that it was not in line with the fiscal rule enshrined in the Constitution and that it was not development-oriented. Not enough efforts have been made on the revenue side. It is also supposed to be designed on the wrong priorities and is therefore not socially oriented. Some considered that it was only the end of the development cycle of the previous government, and highlighted as problematic, in particular, the under-budgeted resources for the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Health. In particular, they highlighted the issue of 11 unfinished cohesion projects in connection with municipalities which have difficulties due to uncertainty about the decisions to be taken. The issue of financing learning assistance to children with special needs and insufficient resources for police operations, while ensuring human security and property, was also highlighted. On the other hand, some members felt that the budget rebalancing was following the public financial objectives of correcting the surplus deficit in a sustainable manner, gradually reducing the structural deficit of the state sector and thus allowing for long-term sustainability of public finances. They therefore consider it appropriate to accept it as proposed. The Committee also identified itself to the amendments tabled and supported the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. Following the discussion, the Committee agreed that the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy supported the proposal for a rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u7	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Uroš Prikl, Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u8	Dear President, Prime Minister, Ministers, distinguished colleague, distinguished colleague! It is true that circumstances and circumstances are changing very quickly, so we have a 2015 budget rebalancing, which was adopted two years ago on some other basis, in some other circumstances. The economic environment is becoming less encouraging and increasingly unfriendly, sometimes even stepmotherly, especially to the most vulnerable and vulnerable target groups. This is a fact, unfortunately, a fact which cannot be denied and in which it is extremely difficult to produce something creative. Even maintaining the continuity of existing rights and certain benefits is very difficult to guarantee. And it is because of the latter in the Desus Group that we recognize that all those involved in the preparation of this balance had to be very careful and responsible in their work. I admit, this is a very responsible task and the final results are expected to have as little serious, painful consequences for all participants as possible, and they are expected to maximise the positive effects and bring some added value. All drafters should have one objective: to develop a budget that will be realistic and at the same time to provide satisfaction in all areas. It is extremely difficult to prepare a budget that will meet all the expectations of the competent ministries, at the same time satisfied by or above all by the general public. I wonder whether, in view of all the arguments presented on individual committees and in all media reverberations, it is possible to design and prepare such a budget at all. I ask you whether the budget is already going to the domain of surreal. In my own conviction, I feel that miracles under such conditions are almost impossible to perform — from nothing to make huge — very difficult or not at all. And what exactly would be a miracle today? Probably the fact that the country's public financial deficit is halved overnight or not at all, that we are recording average economic growth, that we are increasing the country's revenues, which will meet all the requirements, and that we are boldly reducing the country's expenditure, especially in certain segments such as, say, the area of public procurement, information technology and so on and so forth. At the same time, let us lay down the condition that we no longer owe each other any more. Yeah, yeah, that would be a miracle. But miracles don't happen today and here, so let's stay in the real world. The budget is a compromise between practically unlimited desires, needs and always limited financial resources. It's always been like this, and it always will be. The budget is very realistically shown in the form of numbers that will have to be implemented in practice, by concrete actions, by concrete measures. In the Desus Group, we devote the greatest effort to those most vulnerable target groups. But you know, to demand the decent life of our pensioners, there's no flossule, and there's no such thing as a statement. The right to a decent life is a fundamental human right, and this is the right of every individual. Several euros more per month in today's pensions are still known during the period of rising poverty. Pensions have already fallen dramatically in all these years, given the increase in wages and the increase, especially the increase in the cost of living. Today we have more than half of the pensioners who receive a pension of less than €593, and you all know that this is the threshold that represents the risk of poverty. The average monthly pension is 563,85 euros. And this downward trend needs to be stopped and stopped. We have received clear assurances from the President of the Government that we will approach valorisation, namely the harmonisation of pensions, assuming, of course, that the data for 2014 will be such that the gross social product will increase more than 2.5%. We're gonna do this, this action, we're gonna do this. This is also a prerequisite for supporting this budget rebalancing and moving the realisation back to 2016, aware of the difficult situation or the difficult situation in this country. In the Desus Group, we are also very careful about the part of the budget that guarantees the right to pay transfers to the unemployed, the socially disadvantaged, the disabled and could also be listed. I also believe that the smooth payment of parental protection benefits, child allowances and other benefits is a prerequisite for the satisfaction, progress and well-being of our citizens and citizens. We are pleased to note that the resources for ensuring rights under these headings are inextricable. Moreover, in the area of social affairs, a little more funding is provided than was realized in 2014. To be honest, I will personally be extremely pleased if these resources do not have to be fully realized, as this will mean that people have been given jobs, that their situation has improved and that we are on the right track. However, as long as people are entitled to these funds and will still need them in some way, this country will provide them without exception. No right, no legal and already recognised right will be questioned, and this is one of the key points of this budget, which, even for this reason, gives me optimism. With all that said, colleagues and colleagues, and not least because, of course, with the smooth payment of pensions, it will also be possible to make additional payments to pensioners with the lowest pensions, and because we have received clear, explicit and unequivocal assurances from the President of the Government that pensions will be recollected over a long period of time, I am looking at the proposed budget with optimism. In the Desus Group, we are very well aware that we must not lose contact with reality. The reality is whether we like it or not, such that things need to be carried out to the end, it is said, to adopt the budget's balance, to implement 100 % of the unequivocal and clear day guarantees and to continue with the projects that have been set up. It has been mentioned several times that this year's budget is very investment-oriented. Investments are precisely what the proposed balance gives them a significant share of the funds, which is also on my part, we should welcome. As I have already said at the Committee's meeting, the budget must also be critical, since this is the most important act in the country. The criticism also comes from the fact that, no matter how much resources we devote to an individual sector, it would make sense to provide even more, the euro, two more likely every minister would want to achieve his objectives. However, in the Desus Group we do not dispute that additional funds also mean the accelerated realization of the tasks assigned. And to be honest, the objective picture of the budget is slowly improving, but visibly for several reasons. The economic indicators show progress, such as external trade surplus, economic growth, slow unemployment, however, is decreasing, the share of investments has already been said and could be listed. And the very good economic conditions are the basis for the payment of all kinds of rights, as has already been said, including in particular for the coordination of long-term pensions, the provision of rights to individuals and households, the promotion of the economy, in a single word, the basis for state progress and prosperity, which is essential for its people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u9	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The President of the Government, the Council of Ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the beginning, a nice greeting and let me say that the Social Democrats Group will accept the document, which is the most important, which is the budget balance. Under the circumstances of the consideration of the 2015 budget rebalancing proposal, we should, respectably, translate into some moderate optimism. For the first time since the start of the public financial crisis, we have the tangible hope of ending the period of a savings stamp imposed by political elites apparently squeezed into so-called financial markets. After years of falling economic activity, the situation has improved for the second year in a row and the indicators show that Slovenia is on average being strengthened by the Member States of the European Union. If our 2015 prospects were still insufficient and strong below the euro area average, we are now exceeding the average estimated by the European Commission. Gross social product is expected to increase by 1.8% and, according to the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, by even 2%, while other euro area countries are expected to be experiencing less growth, i.e. the 1.3% circus. Social Democrats are particularly encouraged by the forecast that the growth of gross social product will also be followed by a further decline in the unemployment of persons. The growth of social production will continue to be based on exports in the future, on household consumption, which increased for the first time since 2010, and, of course, on private sector investments, while underlining that the contribution of public investment due to the expiry of the financial perspective of the European Union will be somewhat modest. For Slovenia, an export-oriented country, it is important to assess the European Commission that European integration has not been in such good shape since 2007. At the same time, we look forward to improving the growth forecast in Germany as our most important non-trade partners. Modesty growth is expected to trigger quantitative release – you know, this is the Draghi system – and the investment plan and the fall in oil prices. It seems that the European Union is unfortunately somewhat late, but for the first time, a vision of economic and social recovery based on tangible assumptions. In the context of these baselines, the Government has drawn up a proposal for a 2015 budget rebalancing which adapts the amount of items from the end of 2013 to a real improvement. Nevertheless, in the circumstances imposed in particular by the repayment of public debt and commitments to Brussels, the Government insists on public financial sustainability, which is consequently reflected in the further limitation of spending in certain areas. The Group of Social Democrats welcomes the part of the proposal for a rebalancing which preserves the social standard achieved and expresses its concern for the socially weakest part of society. Among the encouraging messages of the proposal for a rebalancing are in particular the reduction in the number of beneficiaries of social transfers as a result of the obvious improvement in the economic environment. We are also satisfied with the increase in investments of 41%, which means that we can finally expect the decomposition of the hat in which the investment in Fat Rtič has become entangled. After 13 years of efforts, the construction of a new promotion, training, work and protection centre will begin there in 2015. Regardless of the fate of some of the amendments tabled to the proposal for a rebalancing, we expect the Government with internal transfers to provide the resources necessary to carry out the legislative tasks or to prevent difficult remedial consequences. In particular, juggling, respected, between the ministries regarding the provision of funds for the payment of teaching aid to the Social Democrats, is considered to be an unfair or irresponsible conduct which the Government is obliged to go beyond. Similarly, it could be summarised in the definition of the problem of maintenance of the Idrija mine. We must not forget the warnings addressed to the National Assembly by stakeholders in the field of education and science and local communities. The estimated resources seem to be sufficient only for the hibernation of the system of scientific research activities, which is contrary to the stated objective of "to become a knowledge-based society". On the edge, some already across, there are Slovenian municipalities that have made a significant contribution to the recovery of the economy. The first step towards normalisation is to develop measures as soon as possible, which, in line with the conclusion of the agreement between the Government and the municipalities, will relieve the latter by almost €23 million. In the Group of Social Democrats, when discussing a proposal for a rebalancing, which settles certain accounts for the rehabilitation of the banking system, we cannot pass the current situation. Today's debate on the proposal for a rebalancing takes place in an atmosphere of suspicion and general mistrust. The reasons for this are circumstances that we have not witnessed so far. Social Democrats are convinced that suspicions related to the operation of the Bank of Slovenia at the time of the orchestrated siege of the country in 2013 are only a shy writing which can lead to repentance although very dense fog. A single political response to the current suspicion of irregularities raises hopes of sincere, hopes, sincere intentions to clear up the filth that has stuck to the rehabilitation of our banking system. But the amount of frustration that has been poured out shows that behind determination, there is a great deal of embarrassment to the political public, who woke up in the morning after the bank debacle with a heavy moral cat. The generals, after the battle that warned yesterday about the artificially triggered doctrine of shock, accompanied by a mockery and marked with demagogies, are shining today in a series of media lights. In the Group of Social Democrats, we hope that the pace of commitment and openness in the coming stages will not change. Respected and respected! However, Slovenia is emerging from the scourge of the crisis, and we want our citizens and our citizens to feel this as soon as possible. But unfortunately, before the new difficult task, we're all together. To restore trust between us all. This can only be achieved through a clear definition of the responsibility of those who, at the time of universal denial, carefully forged their war profits. At that time, it will no longer be possible to satisfy itself by hiding behind the wing of institutions or organs, but it will be necessary to cut, respected, by surnames and names. Finally, let me say that on this road to the 21st century lighthouse, not all the lamps in it will be burned and that we should not be left with just the headache of the leased loans in francs from the other Switzerland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u11	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u12	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, distinguished ministerial team, respectable colleagues and colleagues! The budget and the balance ahead are based on the belt tightening policy. In a policy which, after three years, also becomes clear to the European Commission that this policy is wrong, it has recently announced the flexible application of the Maastricht rights and has therefore not acted against France, which has made it clear that it will not reduce the deficit below 3% by 2017 at least. At that time, the European Central Bank has finally announced the purchase of state bonds, which it should have done in 2010, as did the US and Japanese central banks. In these times, the Slovenian government does not have the courage to set itself 3% for the budgetary objective, namely the Maastricht criteria. We are again more papal than the pope, and the Slovenian government wants a deficit of 2.89%. This gave up 36 million euros that could be used for development and social affairs, but the government will rather see the rate of poverty and material deprivation increase as it stands up for its citizens in Brussels. Slovenia can now be more indebted than Italy or Spain; interest rates are at historically record low rates. At the same time, the European Commission has announced that it will look at countries through its fingers at public expenditure on investment. The courageous government should therefore, in agreement with the European Commission, propose a development and social budget. There could also be a deficit of 3% if expenditure were incurred for the right purposes, i.e. for investment and development. In these times, the Government of Mira Cerar offers us a recycling of the savings budget of the former government, which was created in significantly different times. This budget was prepared at a time when Slovenia was the victim of a speculative attack in the financial markets, at a time when speculation was everywhere about who would be the next victim of the troika. Today, however, circumstances are completely different. If GDP fell by 2.8% in 2012 and by an additional percentage in 2013 and reached 7% of the bonds in those years, today our people and the economy have achieved 2.5% economic growth, one of the highest rates in the euro area. So our economy, our people and our country together create more than they consume. We have already had a budget surplus since 2009. In 2013, our surplus in foreign exchange was EUR 2 billion and EUR 100 million. In 2014, when the final calculations arrive, this number will be exceeded. So we create more than we consume. The main question that the government should ask itself is how this product is distributed among the population. Respected, macroeconomic conditions in Slovenia and the political situation in Europe have changed radically. And even more could it have been if Minister Marble had recently supported these efforts in the negotiations of the Eurogroup with Greece, which is working towards the end of the savings and the new investment cycle in Europe, rather than beating them short-sightedly. However, there is no more excuse to insist on the savings budget. The citizens of this country deserve and need such a budget. How about him? The social and development budget first requires a fair burden distribution on the revenue side. The budget and the balance before us are again based on unfair tax policy. The government reduces the deficit only by cutting spending and rights, but nothing has been done on the revenue side. On the revenue side, we have reserves that governments do not want to take advantage of, as this would extend to the privileges of capital and the most powerful. This is also reflected in Eurostat's annual production and comparison of European countries' tax policies. This analysis shows where the reserves are. Firstly, we often hear that we have the highest taxes in Slovenia. That's not true. Slovenia is on average under the European Union's tax revenues, with 35.7% of taxes collected in the EU, an average of 39.4% of taxes. Not to mention the more developed Member States in the European Union. The conclusion is that our governments simply do not collect enough taxes and contributions for the normal functioning of a modern country. Secondly, we often hear that we have some sort of balance sheet in Slovenia. That's not true either. From 2006 onwards, the tax rates for the assets are decreasing, the exemption is only the introduction of 50% of the income class, and from the same year, 2006 onwards, on the other hand, the VAT rate has doubled. After spending, we are at the European summit and therefore have an over-average share of indirect taxes, with almost 39% of us, 34.5 in the European Union, i.e. taxes that are socially least fair, while at the same time the richest capital is under-averagely taxed. Thirdly, Slovenia has the minimum tax base for capital income taxes among all members of the European Union. Slovenia has a share of capital tax and capital income in all tax revenues in the last place in the European Union. The average member collects 21% of tax revenues from this title of capital taxes; in Slovenia only 10. Last year, the government, I quote a draft rebalancing, say and write, collected 1.9 million taxes on assets. So there is a lot of salt in Barbara Hren's recent article in Dnevnik, which raised so much dust because he put the thesis that Slovenia is becoming a tax haven for wealth. So what should we do? In Slovenia, there are only two ways to reach the development and social budget – with additional debt or with a fair tax reform. In the United Left, of course, we claim that the right path to the social and development budget is a fair tax reform that will contain the following solutions. First, higher taxes on capital. As I said, in Slovenia, capital taxes are among the lowest in Europe. Secondly, the overall progressive taxation of all natural persons' incomes, not only labour income, but also capital and property income, must also be included in the progressive scale, and the 2006 Bajuk reform, which has separated and introduced the cedual taxation of dividends and other incomes, must be abolished. Thirdly, a social tax on real estate based on the actual value of real estate and which will additionally tax the high-end and luxury property, including real estate and luxury properties of religious communities. Fourthly, a special tax should be imposed on the property of a great deal of knowledge. Fifthly, it is necessary to prevent money from leaking into tax havens. If this is not possible, at least the statutory tax evasion of financial transactions in these countries is legal, we know which they are. Only with a fair increase in the tax will we be able to reach a development, investment and social budget that will not be based on a permanent debt. There's no other way. Slovenia needs a budget in which people and development will be priorities. However, the draft budget we have before us is moving in frameworks that are wrong. It is made with an artificial limit of 3%, based on a tax policy that does not want to collect taxes from capital owners and the richest, but also within these wrong frameworks the government has not set a good priority in terms of needs. The priorities are set here by inertia or depending on how much power each coalition partner has. The priorities of the budget and the rebalancing should, in the view of the United Left, be three. First, health, secondly, decent life, and thirdly, the development of each individual as well as the development of society and economy. If I stop by everyone's house for a moment. First time. Hello. The proportion of funds allocated to health care in Slovenia is low and falling. In 2013, it fell to 8.8% of GDP. The additional problem is that we have a very low share of public expenditure on health. According to Eurostat, public health expenditure in Slovenia is 7% of GDP and only 6.5% of Slovenia’s Health Insurance Institute is estimated. If we want our people to have such health care that is comparable to the developed world, it is necessary to increase budgetary expenditure on health and finally abolish supplementary health insurance. In Austria, public health funds account for 2% more than we do, i.e. 8.5% of GDP, with Austria twice as much GDP as Slovenia. Such policies should also be followed by our country. Another time. Social security. According to the United Left, social protection should be one of the priorities. We should ensure a decent life for everyone. After the share of social expenditure, we are again below average. For us, these expenditure amounts to 18.9%, 20% in the European Union as a whole and 21.4% in Austria. This budget consists of two thirds of the cost of living calculated six years ago. So not only does this budget not allow people on the social side of a decent life, but the question is whether people who depend on social assistance are allowed physical survival at all. Third time. Development. What kind of development can we even talk about when €10 million is allocated to research and development in the economic sector. Expenditures for republics and Zois scholarships are reduced by 30 million with some unconvincing promises that the government will get another 10 million. This year's scholarships will go down by a third. The funds for research projects are significantly too low, and investment is chronically lacking. The government obviously forgets about development. So where are the reserves? As I have already mentioned, the largest reserves would be in fair taxation and the reserves are also in the redistribution of expenditure according to social needs. I'm only going to point out one case because I don't have much time to defend myself. We must ask ourselves whether we can afford a defence system that is no longer suitable for the defence of the country, but only for military operations abroad. This is not only an assessment of the United Left, but it is also confirmed by the doctrine of the military strategy – the 2012 military strategic reserve of the Republic of Slovenia; I quote: "The Slovenian armies of its peaceful capabilities allow for successful participation in international operations and missions of NATO, the EU and the UN, but to an existing extent only partially appropriate and insufficient to ensure the full defence of national territory." Since when is it normal for a country that is not under military threat to have seven soldiers on one reserve? I'll give you an answer right away. This is normal since our political class joined NATO. Many times it is said that we have very low spending on defence, but look, in 2012, we had 1.1% of GDP to defend, Austria is spending 0.7%. Why? Because it's a neutral state with an army based on a reserve structure, because they don't allow themselves to buy weapons as badly as, say, modernise the T-55S tanks, which we've been costing a lot of modernisation, that they're now being preserved in some warehouse. How, then, can national defence be provided rationally? It has to be based on the conclusion that, for the first time, Slovenia is not militarily threatened, and for the second time, that we have written in the constitution to advocate a policy of peace and non-violence. So there is no reason for Slovenia to remain a member of NATO. For Slovenia, a non-blocking position is appropriate, but neutrality can also follow the example of Austria or Finland. Therefore, it is now necessary to turn the expensive army of professionals into an army based on reserves. This can be done organically, without any forgiveness, simply by not replacing members who leave the permanent structure. According to MORS, the Slovenian Army has left 3 000 400 in the last 10 years, 998 have retired, and the remaining 2 000 400 have left because of the contractual termination of the employment relationship and contracts for a certain period of time. So about as much as the permanent composition of the Slovenian Army counts, 7 000 200 soldiers have left it in the last 10 years. This means that in 10 years, Slovenia can reduce its permanent composition and replace it with a spare composition that will be 3- to 4-fold cheaper. This, on the one hand, will provide significant savings and, on the other hand, we will disperse the obligation among the population and ensure a more effective defence of the national territory if ever necessary. Additional savings arise if we adapt the "family composition and equipment of the army to the self-defence capabilities of the Slovenian territory" by quoting the doctrine of strategic military reserve instead of constantly adapting it to the needs of NATO and to the ambitions of the officers. As it is said, with such measures, we would spend three to four times as much money in defense as we do now. Let me slowly move on to the conclusion. Slovenia remains a prisoner of two development paradigms that lead to a dead end. The right alternative is neoliberalism. It is intended to reduce taxes and state expenditure, introduce a majority electoral system and another republic, thus strengthening the political power to resist the reduction of social and labour rights that have driven out the last governments. The alternative offered by the so-called middle and left, the last three governments, is neoliberalism with the human face. This in the area of public finances means a lighter fiscal rule, slightly fewer cuts in wages and slightly fewer cuts in social rights. But when we look around in four years' time, we will see that Mr Cerar and his team slowly brought us to the same other republic, under the well-known principle that if you throw the frog into hot water, jump out of the pot, if you slowly heat the water, it will not be noticed and cooked. The real alternative advocated by us, the left, is a fair tax reform, a social and development-oriented budget. But this is not in this budget, so unfortunately we cannot support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u13	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Honorable Council of Ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we are politicians, who, even if we are in opposition, we know good things to commend, but of course we are also sharp and critical, when we know that government policy is not going in the right direction, so that it does not work for citizens and citizens of this country. Let me begin by saying, and I must welcome the extraordinary efforts made by the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Marble, that he has actually managed to bring this balance together with many temptations and appetites, which, of course, also occur in government circles, in the coalition, because we are recording, thank God, a minimal, very fragile economic growth in 2014. I would also like to welcome the introduction to this place the reaction or performance of Minister Dusan Marble in Brussels when the speech on Greece was given. And I must say, he has taken a firm and consistent stand for Slovenian taxpayers. There's only three things we want to say here. First, Greece is our friendly country, secondly, to Greece has been a solidarity, it is solidarity and will be solidarity, and thirdly, it is still valid Clean Accounts, good friends. Therefore, Nova Slovenija requires Greece to return when it can, in accordance with the agreements, be able to pay every cent of our aid to Slovenian taxpayers, of course with interest. And what we're talking about is the consolidated public finances, the balanced budget of the country, and we want the Christian Democrats to say that a condition for consolidated public finances for a balanced budget is a consolidated coalition, a consolidated ruling set in the National Assembly. As it is said, there are already various appetites and temptations at the time of the minimum economic growth in last year, but how do we actually share this value? On the Committee on Finance we witnessed the scene when Members of New Slovenia finally decided that in the fiscal rule law we would demand for years of economic growth, for the economic years of the Swiss writing. I believe that the Minister will follow this request, on his own skin, he felt what could happen if this is not in the fiscal rule law, and it is necessary to act as soon as possible, I think the deadline for amendments is running out. I continue, Members of the New Slovenia Group – we are already Christian Democrats at the time of the adoption of the 2014 and 2015 budgets, were warned in November 2013, that both budgets, both for 2014 and 2015, are incomplete, incomplete, unrealistic and, in particular, undeveloped, and that their correction will follow. And we weren't wrong. At the end of last year, we are already fixing the budget for last year, in fact, it was only about harmonising the funds already spent with the planned ones and it was actually a final account for 2014. We are now correcting the budget for this year. The balance of this year's budget is, in terms of us Christian Democrats, the status quo in the field of public finances and is therefore only a temporary political model for the survival of this coalition in 2015. Why is that our attitude? The proposal for a rebalancing of this year's budget is not development-oriented. The balance for the promotion of the economy does not allocate adequate resources. We are concerned that to date, the current government has not presented a single measure to encourage the economy or to burden it with tax or administrative burden. The measures already taken, i.e. the laws, have the opposite effect. There are new ones that will also have negative effects on the economy, such as the introduction of tax boxes. However, we know, colleagues and colleagues, that the new value, that added value is created exclusively in the economy. Clearly, we also give up our knowledge society because we are reducing our resources for research and development. The budget for Slovenian science has been reduced by more than 25% in the last five years compared to the resources we spent on science five years ago. We are probably all aware together that much more must be invested in scientific applied research and development, because without it there will be no development of our country. Of course, it is also necessary to encourage the implementation or Slovenian transfer of this knowledge to the economy and to find a way to do so, to follow the simple best practices of other countries, such as Finland and Ireland. The rebalancing of the budget continues to reduce funding for R & D. Christian Democrats point out that this trend needs to be changed immediately and turned upwards. The amendment of the Law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015 reduces funds for investments in municipalities, bringing with it a new economic stagnation in the country, in particular in the area of construction. We all say that the mayoral elections in 2014 have also contributed to economic growth in last year, but we do not take this into account, in fact, that the municipalities where every euro turns twice before it is spent would be entrusted to municipalities by the principle of subsidiarity, in order to be trusted, if we already entrust them with more tasks, we burden them with more tasks to give them more money from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. We also warn Members of the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats that the amendment of the average in Article 8 of the Law on the Implementation of Budgets 2014 and 2015 is inconsistent with the Law on the Financing of Municipalities. But I guess we'll talk about this a little bit later. The current government coalition with the budget rebalancing this year tells Slovenia that it is not prepared to implement the necessary reforms. Compared to the current budget, there is an increase in expenditure by almost half a billion euros in expenditure with the current budget rebalancing, with a decrease of about 64 million. While the deficit in the budget remains within the framework of the Maastricht criteria, below 3% of GDP or exactly 2.89% of GDP. Or what if something happens, if, for example, a cohesion project collapses, it immediately means that we are going to break the Maastricht criteria of 3% and the appropriate mechanisms that we know and are unpleasant to the country are launched, penalties that are even more unpleasant for the country are imposed. The public deficit is still covered by new debts rather than by systemic measures. The share of interest is increasing in expenditure, the nominal amount of interest in this year's budget already exceeds EUR billion, which is almost one-tenth of the expenditure side of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. We do not allocate the necessary resources to ensure the security of citizens and property. We are observing, colleagues and colleagues, what is happening in the European East, what is happening to the threats that threaten Europe from the south and from various terrorist organisations, and we simply do not understand that this does not wake governments to devote more resources to security, which is more dimensional. We don't know what's really going on right now. Whether we are investing in education for, for example, the cyber security of our citizens and citizens. Given the sensitive security situation in Europe and the world, we also need to strengthen the preventive action of the police. Of course, the police need an adequate number of trained personnel, appropriate equipment, vehicles and others for their work. By constantly reducing funds for these purposes over the past few years, we have reduced the number of employees in the police force. In the absence of new purchases of equipment and vehicles, funds must also be provided for these purposes. We would like to point out that the Committee on Internal Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government dealt last December with the issue of police operations and the provision of funds for them. These decisions are binding on the Government, adopted by the Committee at that meeting, and should be taken fully into account in the preparation of the draft budget rebalancing proposal for this year. These conclusions, however, were not taken into account or taken fully into account by the Government. This fact, colleagues and colleagues, raises the issue of the very foundations of the existence of parliamentary democracy in our country. We have quite a few conclusions, some examples of conclusions adopted on various committees, and the government simply ignores them, so that at least the government can give some justification, why they may not be realistic or otherwise, but obviously we have a problem, we have a problem or the government has a problem with understanding parliamentary democracy. And that's not good. The balance of this year's budget brings about a reduction in social transfers totalling €130 million. Money for unemployment benefits, state scholarships and grants for gifted persons are being reduced. Resources for the nutrition of students, students and students are being reduced. But what is most worrying, colleagues and colleagues, is that for good 36 million euros, funds for family benefits and parental benefits are also being cut. In fact, there is also a new attitude towards a new family policy of this coalition, which we are deeply concerned about and strongly opposed. Family benefits include children’s allowance, with children’s allowance, the aim of equalising the family’s chances of living, raising and educating children is pursued. The justification and height of the child supplement is linked to the property status of the family. With the general social picture in our country, children’s allowance is often the only or important receipt of a family for the survival of children. The rate of poverty in Slovenia has increased dramatically. It is the duty of the State to take measures not to expose children to poverty as the most vulnerable group of people. It is therefore necessary not to take measures in this area to protect children. A child's allowance is an important lever to address material deprivation. In addition, Slovenia is facing a decline in fertility, which is, of course, strongly linked to the social picture of Slovenian families. Many couples, especially those where one partner is unemployed, do not decide to increase the family or the additional child because of the material situation in the family. The new Slovenia – the Christian Democrats, therefore, proposed an increase in resources on the sub-programme "Family Receipts and Parental Refunds". In addition to reducing the material disadvantage of children, the higher child allowances will also help improve the demographic picture in Slovenia, which is also a European problem. Ladies and gentlemen, New Slovenia – Christian Democrats were expected in this rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for this year to spark a new economic policy of this coalition. And we're very disappointed. We need, we probably all know, we need a new economic policy in the country, we need a new business model in our country. This will not be the case, it simply will not be without the necessary structural reforms that are not on the horizon, as I have said, this coalition has obviously decided not to intervene in structural reforms so as not to implement them. The new business model and the new economic policy will not be without reducing the tax burden on the economy, without simplified procedures, simplifying procedures and removing bureaucratic barriers for the economy and investors, and of course there will be no new economic model, no new economic policy without the internationalisation of the Slovenian economy. Slovenia is still almost hermetically closed to foreign investors. And that's not good. We Christian Democrats stress that we urgently need a new development-oriented model of economic policy, which is unfortunately not the result of today's proposal for a rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015. Therefore, Members of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will not be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u15	The word is given by the Alliance's Group, for her mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u16	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen! In addition to being disappointed in the Alliance, we are also concerned. The 2015 Rebalancing is expected to be the first serious document of the Government of Mir Cerar. When we had the 2014 balance before us, the Minister of Finance did not convince us or say that it was in some way a finding of the reality. The balance for 2014 was adopted 18. November. I don't know if you can believe it, but when the real situation was established, the government was wrong about 320 million euros, 170 on expenditure and 150 on revenue. For one month. In fact, they had the realization for 10 months and were wrong about 320 million euros. In fact, what was the actual situation when the government was taken over? 3% economic growth, interest on our debt of around 1.4% and deficit of 1.2 billion euros. The promises we had then heard were that the 2015 budget would reflect the direction of development that will be pursued by the new government of Mira Cerar. It is intended to demonstrate the development potential of our country and to continue the gradual consolidation of public finances. What do we actually see from the document we have before us? The deficit in the state budget is increasing by 200 million euros. Expenditure on the State budget is also increasing, but there is no funding available for all legal obligations. The deficit, minus, is what it's like in all ministries. Ministers and secretaries of state have called on us, practically on all committees, to propose additions that would provide them with more money so that they could meet all the legal obligations at all. I think this is the wrong world. That they must, without having to, ask your ministers and state secretaries on board to provide more resources than the government has allocated them. I will, of course, point out only a few problematic parts of this balance at this point, because there is simply no time for everything. Police, she's short half a year. She lacks funds for the most urgent investments, personal vehicles that are old, personal equipment, police security equipment. Dear Minister, I admire that you are prepared at all or that you still hope to be the minister responsible for the police. Road infrastructure, in the so-called development programme plan, we have 660 projects. 660 projects – that sounds very nice. You will not believe that only 79 projects are worth more than nothing in 2015. So 581 projects are of value in 2015 zero. 36 of these 79 projects have a value of less than 1,000 euros. I hope you know what on the road infrastructure to do with a thousand euros. The winner of this list, however, is a project worth €49, a project worth €49 in road infrastructure. It's a school. Assistance to children with special needs – according to the minister, 4 million are missing. But you did not hear us and heard us say that with the amendment we would provide the additional, necessary means to secure legal duties. Investments. Indeed, the planned funds increase by 30% and 350 million euros. But this part is supposed to show the development of the budget that is ahead of us, but the error in the 2014 planning, and we accepted it just before the end of this year, was EUR 100 million. EUR 100 million is lower than the 18 November plan. So, how can we believe that the investments that you are really planning to make on a higher scale will be realised if you make a mistake in 2014 for 100 million, one month before the end of the year – 8% is that. That is why we find it hard to believe and do not believe that the budget is development-oriented. As I said before, you promised that the 2015 rebalancing would show the direction of development that your government would take. You promised a developmental conversion. In fact, there is not a single new project to be launched in 2015, so to speak, everyone is concluding, so 2015 is the year of completion of projects of previous governments. Therefore, we cannot at all talk about developmental change, but it is our assessment that, unfortunately, you are ending the developmental transformation of the former government. The 2015 balance ahead of us is a great disappointment for the Alliance. Mr Cerar is of the great promise and hope that he has given to people, and I am concerned that in the end he will also kill that only pre-election promise, which is the rule of law. And if I use the phrase that at least we have heard on the Finance Committee many times: In the Alliance, we will closely monitor everything that is going on in the police, education, health, culture and elsewhere, and in the event of a breach of the law, we will demand responsibility. However, I am concerned, Mr Marble, that for 2016 you will have an even more important job ahead of you than you have had since 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u17	The word is given by the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group, Dr. László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Council of Ministers! Colleagues and colleagues! Given the circumstances we are in, there is no surprise that the budget balance needs to be adopted for 2015. We are aware that the initial budget for that year was adopted already a good year and a half in different, very volatile public financial circumstances. In the meantime, a number of things have changed, and unfortunately some things have worsened. It is true that the latest analyses, the intensity of economic growth, show significantly more favourable results than those at the end of 2013. It is also true that we are committed to meeting the conditions of the obligations of the so-called golden fiscal rule, and as we have heard, the government has set this as a priority. In our parliamentary group, we estimate that the government has managed with the proposed balance to come up with a compromise solution, which, of course, means that most of the resources can only be partially satisfied. While there is probably no uniform position on where the biggest problems are or will be, several budget discussions in the working bodies of the National Assembly have shown areas where the biggest problems are expected, notably some education and scientific research programmes, the lack of resources for the functioning of the police, problems in the maintenance of roads and other infrastructures, the lack of development of programmes, at least after some, the funding of municipalities, and could continue to be mentioned. Unfortunately, the proposal also reduces funding under the heading for Slovenians living outside the borders of Slovenia. In this latter, quantitative factors, I think, should not be decisive, as a seemingly saved sum may earlier be a strategic error as an expression of general solidarity to the prevailing public financial situation. Despite the problems mentioned above, I reiterate once again that in our Group of Members, the proposal for a rebalancing is acceptable under the circumstances. I believe that we all want the budget under the proposed framework to be contained by the end of the year. We hope that in preparing, the government has been sufficiently attentive to the sustainability of social and other systems in our society and has foreseen optimal solutions in the event of possible additional problems without a new balance. The 2015 budget balance in the work relating to the maintenance and development and functioning of the organisations and institutions of the indigenous national community, with the proposed amendment of the coalition parties, which eliminates the stolen technical error, shall be maintained at the level of the implementation for 2014. This means that the government respects the agreement that we have concluded, which I also thank for on this occasion. In doing so, I stress that there are no reserves in this area, as the funds have been steadily declining in recent years. In so doing, if we note the huge rash of members of the national communities in recent years and decades and the deterioration of the national identity and application of the Hungarian and Italian languages in the legal area and the problems of the Roma community, as well as the very limping implementation of formal good legislation in almost all areas, I hope that we are all aware of what I am talking about. Let me re-emphasize. We will support the 2014 budget balance.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u19	The word is given by the SMC Group, for which Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u20	Dear President! Dear Council of Ministers! Dear colleagues and colleagues! The State budget represents the financial backbone of each country and is a fundamental instrument for the implementation of its macroeconomic policy. A healthy budget is balanced between the expenditure and income sides and is primarily in line with trends in socio-economic and not calendar cycles. The macroeconomic stability and a balanced budget with stable public finances are reflected through reduced interest rates, increased savings and investments and the creation of trade surpluses. On such grounds, it is possible to further promote both fair and balanced social and economic development for the diverse social groups. All these views in the event of an understanding of the state budget in the Republic of Slovenia already have several cycles, either calendar or political, do not hold water. In other words, they do not meet the needs and expectations of sound and stable state financial support for the public interests of diverse social and economic groups in the country. Even today's 2015 budget rebalancing does not have the power of a miracle stick that could instantly remove our country's current budgetary image and condition. The balance sheet under consideration is not the primary result of the current government's public financial vision, as it is prepared on the established foundations of the past government. However, in the SMC Group, we agree with the government that in the given situation this balance is the result of the best possible compromise. We give our support for the rebalancing for two large sets of reasons where one relates to the role and responsibility of democratically elected authorities to the people and the other to the substantive programme vision of this central financial and political document of the country. In the SMC Group, we believe that, with an intervention in the form of a rebalancing already in November 2013, the 2015 budget has been adopted with a responsible, fully binding and, above all, a timely response from the State to the changing domestic and international macroeconomic situation, we are re-examined in a professional and political manner the balance and stabilisation of the State's public finances, and consequently the development opportunities and an enabling socio-economic environment. Furthermore, in the SMC Group, we support the adoption of the budget rebalancing because the result is both within the government and the result of a broad social dialogue signed by the Government with key stakeholders. In this context, it is appropriate to re-emphasize successful agreements with the social partners and municipalities at home and the positive and supportive responses of the competent institutions of the European Union, whose full-fledged Member with all its rights and obligations is our country. The preparation and adoption of the budget balance is not least reflected in the signs of stabilisation and normalisation of the situation in our country. In the last turbulent years, the events that we have had an impact on ourselves in the dominant work, and in part the wider global financial crisis, the circumstances and conditions for the smooth realization of our country's social and economic objectives have changed significantly, to worse. Today is neither the time nor the space nor, finally, the need to debate the political, legal, social and values-moral brakes of our country's uninterrupted and in the future development of a focused operation, but rather the financial and programme content and direction of the document itself. Although this does not in any way exclude the heavy burden of responsibility that the first-mentioned reasons have for the public financial situation. In terms of content, the proposed 2015 budget rebalancing follows the principles of a sustainable and supportive social state, economic growth and gives particular weight to the investment potential. An accurate view of changes in budgetary resources between the initially adopted budget and the rebalancing of the basic pillars of the system shows unchanged or even partially increased financial values. For example, this shows data on pension protection, education and sport, transport and transport infrastructure, environmental and environmental infrastructure protection, public debt servicing and taking into account the lower unemployment rate, and thus the need for state transfers to individuals and households also on social security items. The programme classification of the budget also shows that, compared to the expenditure of the previous year, a substantial number of resources are allocated to health care, intervention programmes and environmental and infrastructure protection obligations, as well as to the field of local self-government. Furthermore, a detailed expenditure cut shows that the Government, through measures to reduce spending on the integral part of the budget, has been able to make progress by designing a series of measures that operate horizontally, i.e. on all budgetary users. In particular, the centralisation of public procurement and state information technology and the creation of an IT cloud, the centralisation of public property management, measures to reduce public sector labour costs, measures in the areas of co-financing of municipalities, changes in the student labour system, rationalisation of economic public services and the replacement of certain grants for reimbursement. Others are also important, however, measures that operate sectorally, i.e. through individual ministries, where ministries themselves have the opportunity to take certain measures on the basis of the financial framework provided, either internally redistributing or ideally reducing the costs of their operations. In particular, the investment expenditure category of the State budget should also be highlighted at this point. On the one hand, the rebalancing also had to be made due to the initial unforeseeable losses of property tax revenue, the unplanned interest on debt, the under-planned current transfer to the ZIPZ due to the adoption of the novel SDH Law, which was adopted in the spring of 2014, by way of a tactic by the same government, which also adopted the original budget for 2015. On the other hand, when we talk about this work, this change in the balance has also been linked to the previously mentioned changed circumstances of EU funds drawback. Why is this so important? Because it is precisely these that will provide a significantly higher opportunity for public investment. These increase by 30% or almost €357 million after the 2015 budget rebalancing compared to 2014. This represents 5.5% of gross social product in 2015, the highest share in recent years and is about 3% above the average of public investment in the euro area and the European Union area. This is particularly true of the logically related expectations that will result in positive effects of investment on economic growth, employment and social security, particularly on the overall future development orientation of the country in which the highest possible level of public responsibility will also have to be played by processes related to the strategic management of state assets and the well-thought and cost-effective sale of non-strategic investments of the country. At this point and in the light of the exposure, it is also worth mentioning the latest forecasts of economic trends for Slovenia, which foresee that real economic growth at 25 gross social product levels will continue to decrease by 4.3% at the end of January 2015 to 9.5% less than a year ago, which is also noticeably lower than the average of 11.2% of the unemployment rate in the euro area countries. And finally. The proposal for a rebalancing foresees that the country's general sector deficit under the ESA methodology will still amount to an acceptable and publicly sustainable 2.89% of the gross social product. In the SMC Group, we estimate that the objectives of the public financial policy resulting from the proposed balance sheet follow both the links to our citizens and citizens as well as the demands and recommendations of the European Council and the commitments of the 2014 stability programme as well as the draft 2015 budget plan. The rebalancing was prepared at a time and situation where the country still faces a major deficit and the consequences of the global economic crisis, which were so extensive that they were in real danger of the final destruction of the Slovenian social and economic model, the destruction of social cohesion and also the complete mistrust of people that the political institutions and processes of the Slovenian State were even able to continue the way of the independent state. In the SMC Group, we believe that, under the circumstances presented, the rebalance meets the expectations and needs of protecting the social and economic interests of people who, at these difficult times, especially need support and confidence in the country and its services. The same is true of the country's attitude towards businesses or the promotion of healthy public and no longer of partial and perverse entrepreneurial interests and practices. The country is rightly expected to offer support for the transition from the crisis and the conditions of healthy competitiveness, which will ultimately benefit people under equal conditions and incentives once again, which will further reflect the predictability of their employment opportunities and social security. In the SMC Group, we reiterate that we understand the 2015 budget rebalancing as an urgent and certainly unpopular act that we must, like the key social and local stakeholders of this country, have already done in dialogue with the government, responsibly confirm if we are to remedy the consequences of a series of unimaginable and unsuccessful past practices in the functioning of the country and in the management of public finances. Only in this way will we be able to provide the reformed framework of the rehabilitated system, on the basis of which it will be possible to build a healthy, fresh and, above all, for the benefit of future social and economic development, a sound foundation for a stable and stimulating public financial system and in this context a comprehensive development model of the country that its people will be able to restore to them at this moment a well-deserved and justifiable trust in its mission and existence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u21	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u22	Honorable President, Honourable Council of Ministers, colleagues, colleagues! Initially, there is one major disappointment for the SDS Group of the 2015 budget. Why is it a disappointment? In particular, if we recall the words of Prime Minister Mir Cerar a few months ago, and in particular the defence of all coalition partners, that the 2015 budget rebalancing will be an indicator of the work of the Government of Mir Cerar. We expected much more. The 2015 proposal for a rebalancing clearly shows that the policy of previous governments, namely debt policy and new tax burden policies, will continue. We have heard a lot about what measures are being taken by the current government, but this is a prerequisite for the adoption of the 2015 balance sheet. The budget is the most important document for the country and, of course, for taxpayers. It is also important for the social sector, it is important for the economy. The document itself clearly shows what will happen during the current year. And from this budget there is not one measure that would help to remedy the economic situation in Slovenia, nor is it a measure that would lead Slovenia against debt, but even more, it is clear from the documents that the debt of the Slovenian State will continue. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the proposed 2015 budget balance is not development-oriented, not counter-crisis-oriented. We are also convinced that the proposed rebalancing for 2015 is reflected in unrealistic revenues and unrealistic expenditure. We are convinced that such a certain part on the revenue side is overestimated, but on the expenditure side it is undervalued. In particular, the Slovenian Democratic Party is concerned about this 2015 budget balance, as it should be stressed that this 2015 balance, respected Minister of Finance Dr. Marble, was made on substantially better macroeconomic assumptions as the basic budget document for 2015 October 2013. And what did we now get out of this budget? We received a higher deficit than anticipated in the 2015 budget, which was made in October 2013 and was made on significantly worse macroeconomic assumptions. The macroeconomic assumptions in Slovenia are better, and we get a document on the table showing a higher deficit. And after the cash flow, this deficit will be higher than 3 percentage points, 3.62%. Of course we are here, we have listened to arguments that the budget should also be seen in the accounting stream and that we have fallen below the Maastricht criteria of 3%, 2.89%. However, the Minister of Finance, with the Slovenian Democratic Party on the Committees, in particular on the labour market, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, has clearly raised the question that there is a high likelihood that the liabilities of the Bank's SID will have to be included in Slovenia's indebtedness. What will happen then, and what deficit can we expect? On the one hand, we ask the Slovenian Democratic Party whether this budget is also made in accordance with the Constitution in accordance with the fiscal rule adopted. We have not received any concrete response from the Ministry of Finance. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, however, we are convinced of the view that it does not comply with the Constitution. This balance of budget – we believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party – is also a major blow in the direction of the social state, in the direction of health, in the direction of education and that this balance of budget could also be named one of the government's actions, Mir Cerar, and that it preserves the status quo. This budget balance has been made because it has to be. The figures have been mixed together and in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are convinced that neither the revenue side nor the expenditure side of the budget are real. What are we even more concerned about in the Slovenian Democratic Party? Disagreement between the coalition and the government. I think this has happened for the first time in the history of a coalition, that two coalition parties arrive five minutes before 12 on the committee and that they demand an amendment that has the opportunity to break a complex budget. Dear Minister of Finance, in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are convinced that there are many things in this coalition that are not coordinated and that these can have drastic consequences both for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and especially for the economy. If you take a closer look at the numbers in the budget itself and point out, time is not enough, everything, but especially those that are most in the eyes. On the income side, the government and the Ministry of Finance expect more than 120 million from the income collected. We know it's an unrealistic item. The other party we're worried about is the excise. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that both the former and the current government does not run an appropriate excise policy. And that excise policy is once again at the burden of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, at the burden of the economy. In this budget, however, the government expects 50 million higher excise revenue, actis, as was the case in 2014. This clearly indicates the direction and path of this government, that it will also burden citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and the economy alone. This number isn't real. Which excise duties will you raise in 2015? Are these petroleum derivatives, or are they tobacco products, or is that alcohol? According to the data available, Petrol had a drop of more than 6 % on the sales side of the oil derivatives only this year, in January, compared to January 2014, solely because of the policy pursued by both the previous government and the current government. There was a lot of talk about the privatisation of state-owned enterprises. The privatisation coalition is uncoordinated. And that it is uncoordinated is also reflected in the appropriations in the dividend budget. The Government of Mira Cerar expects 50 million higher dividend revenues compared to the 2015 budget. Dear Minister of Finance, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we ask: Which state-owned companies will be held hostage by the Government of Mir Cerar? What state-owned enterprises will be the hostages of the payment of profits for the full budget? Is this gonna be an electro-economy or is this gonna be Telekom? And this is another proof that, if the state insists on companies that are well-standing, that these companies will be drained from the budget, they will become competitively impoverished, and that, finally, they will also be well-established today if they do not find a suitable strategic partner for them, if not for a short period of time, a recapitalisation is needed. The expenditure side of the budget – we are convinced that too low expenditure on the transfer of unemployment is expressed. Compared to the 2015 budget, the projected expenditure here is less than €70 million. 70 million euros. We are convinced that this number is unrealistic, because this number does not match what is happening in the area of employment or the growth of the fall in unemployment. On the other hand, you expect higher social security expenditure. And we are not clear on these matters in the Slovenian Democratic Party. On the one hand, reducing unemployment transfers, on the other hand, you expect higher social security revenues. Why? We didn't get any concrete answers on this side either. Coordination of pensions in growth of more than 2,5 % of gross domestic product. What will the government or this coalition do in this area? We asked the question about the savers of the Ljubljana Bank Zagreb and the Ljubljana Bank of Sarajevo. We know that the decision of the Strasbourg Court of Human Rights is clear here and there is no guarantee that the obligations set out in this Title will have to start to be paid in 2015. And if we add to this the liabilities of the Bank's SID and if these matters are included in it, I think that we will soon have to accept the balance of this budget and that the deficit will be significantly higher than it is now. The public deficit is not real and is not properly shown. We are convinced of this in the Slovenian Democratic Party. There is no measure from this rebalancing that would go in a positive direction for the economy, no positive action that would provide better public health, which we see is on a dog that would provide better standards of public education and, of course, does not provide, I would say, some reconciliation of pension. In addition to this, the Slovenian Democratic Party on the Finance and Monetary Policy Committee has acted in a state-of-the-art manner and has tried to correct this balance according to certain segments with at least some of the amendments. Unfortunately, however, the coalition voting machine worked and none of the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party would have been adopted. However, at the conclusion of the Slovenian Democratic Party's position, it should point out some of the words made by the representatives of the Ministry of Finance that this is in fact also a real picture of the most important document for the country to be adopted, a positive element of this budget being that everyone is equally dissatisfied. Dear Secretary of State, I think that we have come to the bottom now that you are assessing that the only positive element of this budget is that we are all equally satisfied. I am sure that Slovenian citizens and citizens do not want such a government, which puts us all in a state of dissatisfaction for success. The Slovenian state does not need such a government and does not need such a coalition. The following has also made it clear that if there are problems in certain budget lines over the course of the year, we will do so in accordance with the legislation in force, which means that we will propose a new rebalancing. Let's re-emphasize. The proposed rebalancing is inadequate, it is not developmental, it is not anti-crisis-oriented, it is not realistic, and neither is the revenue and expenditure shown, nor is the public financial deficit, we believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that it is not properly shown. All these are strong enough arguments that the proposed balance in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group will not be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to a debate on individual parts of the proposal for a rebalancing. As individual parts, we consider, for the first time, the general part of the proposal for a rebalancing and, secondly, the specific part of the proposal for a rebalancing and, thirdly, the plan for development programmes. We are moving on to the debate on the general part of the proposal for a rebalancing. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr. Jerney Wrote. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u24	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear Secretary of State! Council of Ministers! Where do I see a personal problem with the budget balance you're proposing? There have been many instances that we have heard through the presentation of the positions of the parliamentary groups that the balance is not development-oriented. Of course, that's a very good point. Incentives to the economy and entrepreneurship – they are not in the proposed budget balance. This moment is our country, our GDP, our economic activity is entirely dependent on our exporters not on ourselves, not on our own work, but on our good entrepreneurs and economists, who are essentially reducing the item. EUR 153 million less for entrepreneurship and competitiveness is in the budget balance. Ask yourself if this is responsible for those who create economic growth. Furthermore, what bothered me in the first place was that the spending side was increasing and it was already close to this magic limit of €10 billion. At the time of the conjuncture, I remember, when the government was led by the Lord, now the deceased, Dr. Andrej Bajuk, we have not come close to such expenditure. In particular, it is painful that, despite the fact that we have a fiscal rule in our constitution and even more so as to adopt an implementing law on the fiscal rule, the deficit is increasing by 200 million euros. I don't know how you're going to be next year when the Fiscal Rules Implementation Act is already passed. If it goes as far as next year's budget is concerned. But also on the spending side, it's increasing by half a billion. You say that because of the European funds, because of the implementation of these European funds and so on, but this is an account without the innkeeper again. It's still an account without the innkeeper. I would also say that the budget is not securely oriented. I remember, on the Committee on Home Affairs, we decided to increase funds for the Slovenian police. And they do increase, but for 7 million euros, much less than we anticipated on the committee at the time. And let us ask ourselves, in view of the situation in Europe, in view of all the terrorist threats in Europe, whether we live in a safe country or give sufficient resources for our security. How's the police? What kind of situation does the police work in? And, Madam Minister, we can rightly expect you to be able to take advantage of the one with the resources. We'd call in to defend ourselves to the Slovenian police, not for the cops as such, but for our own safety. And that the budget is not securely oriented also shows the figure to reduce funds, attention, the means to maintain road infrastructure are shrinking – of course, road infrastructure has a lot to do with security – by €3.8 million. Take a look at the roads Slovenia and Slovenia are taking compared to foreign countries. I read somewhere that, say, foreign car manufacturers who export cars to Slovenia are thinking about reducing guarantees due to our poor road infrastructure. Of course, traffic accidents and resulting injuries to humans as well as fatalities are also involved. Furthermore, the issue of the congregation itself. Today we also accept the so - called ZUJF, or tomorrow we will consider it for the congregations. The funds are falling again, which is irresponsible. Why is it irresponsible? Because of this, you know, the state has already transferred certain legal obligations to the congregations. And how can the congregations, through these minimal means that we cut even more, ensure that these legal obligations are fulfilled. How are they supposed to do and regulate infrastructure, sewerage, plumbing and so on, if they're cut? They can't worry anymore because they're fed. They can no longer worry about the legal obligations imposed on them by the State. Let me also mention the new fees for citizens and citizens, for the different applicable permits to be introduced. We will accept this tomorrow, but this is linked to this budget rebalancing. And we must not treat the congregations that way. You know, go take a look at these smallest Slovenian municipalities, how they are developed. And if our country were as diligent and good at obtaining European cohesion funds as our small Slovenian municipalities in the eastern part of this country, then life in this country would be better. Wherever you go to a small Slovenian municipality, I give an example of the congregation in Prekmurje, the smallest municipality – Velika Polana, at every step you see the board that something is built with European funds. And today it is the country that is taking it, which is taking it. You said that, and you're making the most of it, and I'm going to commend the investment. It's the innkeeper's account again. You mentioned railways, an update on the tracks. Then remember that we are going to the second track to obtain European funds without financial structure. We've discussed this, Mr. Minister. It's not entirely your fault, but these are the accounts without the innkeeper. Finally, in view of the macroeconomic indicators that have undoubtedly improved during the preparation of the budget rebalancing compared to the period that this budget was originally prepared, it is said that under the previous government, you have not tried to balance this budget and go in line with what we have in the constitution – a balanced budget. This year, this budget, honourable Minister and Secretary of State, has yet to be reconciled with the coalition partners. But I'm afraid of the next period. Because this year your coalition partners' appetites were exceptional. After the pension coordination, if we detect more than 2.5% of economic growth, I am just wondering what will happen next year, how will you reconcile this budget? If you have a chance, of course. But you will not have a problem with the opposition, you will have problems first with your own partners, as you have already had since they actually brought their amendments to the committee. And better than economic activity, there will be greater appetites for candy sharing. For this reason, I say that the fiscal rule should also be recorded in the constitution for the period of economic growth, the conjuncture. It's a well-meaning, well-respected coalition. Not only do we have a fiscal rule for the time of the dry cows, but we also have a fiscal rule for the time of the fat cows that we will have this guard against temptation. I will vote against the proposed budget rebalancing mainly for the reason that, as I initially said, there are no development components involved. The economy is currently working on its capabilities. Above all, at the expense of exporters, we record positive economic trends, at the expense of the ingenuity of our entrepreneurs, not at the expense of the fact that we, Parliament, the government, have improved their operating conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mrs Andreja Katič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u26	Nice greeting, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government and the ministry! It is likely that no one today is satisfied with the balance, because the situation in the country is what it is. And even on the faces of ministers and their coworkers, there is no optimist. However, we expect the 2016 budget to be different. And in fact, given the reality that we are in, we somehow have no choice but to trust the Government and the ministers that they have only agreed on the best that they have managed to agree on in order to have sufficient resources to carry out their tasks, and above all to solve the problems that they will face in the course of the year. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the following. As far as the funds for the municipalities are concerned, the government has reached an agreement with the municipalities, but here again we stress the need to stick to this agreement and that the government and individual ministries will indeed do their utmost to find measures that will reduce the burden on the municipalities, that these measures will also bring solutions to the objectives set out and that, in this way, the funds needed for the congregations to carry out their tasks will somehow be reduced or otherwise the government will then find solutions and provide funds to the municipalities needed for their operation. After all, regardless of what we are saying here, the congregations are the ones that face people’s specific problems most directly every day in the field. And despite the fact that we are recording economic growth, that unemployment is declining, citizens still need much help, and these economic growth is not yet felt on their shoulders. There's something else I'd like to point out. Regardless of where we are going to invest, more needs to be done, and the government also promises that we will also change the systems of strategic, not only centralisation of public procurement, but also that we will approach changes in public procurement, so that we will do even more in de-liberating the country, in order to simplify the procedures, because shorter, faster, more efficient procedures are also cheaper. To do everything we can to encourage investment. In order to make all the necessary changes in the area of building buildings that will enable the investment of the economy as well as a faster drive for new economic growth. In order to join the entire health reform, we will also approach the simultaneous change or strategy for the development of both state administrations and local self-governments. To do more to make the inspections on the ground effective, not to increase taxes, but to collect what the country can and must collect with existing taxes through existing measures. And we'll do more about preventing black work. Nevertheless, I would like to commend some small achievements. We have also discussed the programmes of music education in previous sessions, and we can be pleased that the level of funds for this purpose has not decreased, even slightly increased. More than 24 000 children are involved in music education in Slovenia and I think this is encouraging for our children, young people and also for Slovenian tradition in this area. As far as the social balance is concerned. It is true that we are witnessing a reduction in unemployment benefits, but because further reductions in unemployment are forecast, which is encouraging that so much funding is not needed. We advocate social democrats to encourage and implement all measures for new jobs, to preserve existing jobs, but as long as we have people in need of assistance, they must also be provided with this assistance. We are also pleased that, from the initial reduction in public works resources, there is only consensus that public works have been allocated and that more resources are provided to provide for training in the workplace, to provide resources to subsidise employment, especially for job seekers, and so on. Finally, I would like to point out that it is necessary as soon as possible – and this should not only be a project of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, but the whole Government to start as soon as possible, unless it draws funds from the new operational programme for the period 2014-2020, where funding is also provided for the subsidisation of traineeships. However, this must be a priority in all areas of government action. In the end, there's just one thing. When we look at the resources for infrastructure, especially for transport infrastructure, it is actually unacceptable that we travel on such roads in Slovenia. We therefore expect that the country will make a thorough effort to avoid this strategically in order to see a substantially different budget in 2016 than it is this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, the distinguished ministerial team! We have a 2015 budget balance ahead of us. The budget, from which I believed in the words that there would be a developmental stance, in view of the 2014 rebalancing forecast, but today I can only say that this budget rebalancing is a real disappointment. Disappointment, because it is not developmental, is neither investment nor, above all, because it does not point to any necessary reform for Slovenia – not in the field of health, not in the field of education and nothing in the direction of economic stress. It is only a continuation of the existing situation, which means that it can happen that we will have a new balance very soon for 2015. I am also concerned that the assumptions on which this budget is based are not realistic, which, of course, I consider very risky and should stress some. This rebalancing is based on an assessment of economic growth from the winter forecast of Umarje, which estimates that this year's economic growth will be 2% of GDP. I am concerned about what will happen if we fail to achieve the estimated economic growth. If we know that economic growth was due to increased exports in 2014, we know that a minimum economic growth or even stagnation is forecasted for our many partners this year, then we know that economic growth in 2014 was the result of municipal infrastructure projects, resulting from such local elections on the one hand, and the conclusion of the financial perspective 2007-2013. I am extremely concerned about what will happen if the drawback of European funds from the old financial perspective, which is being concluded this year, is not 100%. This year we are planning a record number of drawbacks, amounting to €1 billion. This year we have to draw 1 billion euros. It can happen very quickly that any of the projects will fail, if we already know that some of these are critical, and let me mention only this pomur water. If one of these projects falls, it means immediately less revenue in the budget. And of course, what disturbed me here today – this budget is made on the assumption that the situation in the labour market is improving. My dears, are you? At the end of 2014, unemployment fell. What happened in January 2015? The number of unemployed has increased to 124 thousand 300. In January, 13 000 840 unemployed persons were registered at the Institute. On this assumption, our budget balance is based and we are reducing the level of monetary compensation for the unemployed in this rebalancing. A reduction of 68 million according to the 2015 budget and 28 million according to the 2014 implementation. Given the assumptions on which this budget is based, following a deficit target of less than 3% of gross domestic product will be extremely difficult, as the manoeuvre space we have up to 3% is so minimal. Difficult negotiations with trade unions have also been highlighted. I personally see them as very bad negotiations. You took it there because you shouldn't take it. You took the municipalities, which we all know were a driver of development in Slovenia in 2014. And more than evidently, I can conclude from this that the congregations are the ones that had the worst negotiators. And here, too, I find it difficult to understand why these negotiators were so happy after the negotiations. The decline in averages is a disaster for congregations, a disaster for small congregations. In general, this is very bad for our regional development, it is very bad in the direction of decentralisation of Slovenia, which we stress constantly. As a result, all the congregations will have to do rebalans in the budget. No one wonders that it costs something, however, the meetings of saints are not free. At the same time, many congregations ask how the projects will be completed. This will be a major problem especially in small congregations. They have 100 000 Euros of money. The end of certain projects should be in 2015. What will these congregations do? As far as it sounds on the ground, with these negotiations, the mayors were not satisfied, at least in our Styrian end, definitely not. The very explanations of the proposal for a rebalancing are very bad, the pitfalls, the non-ambitious, show what we already know there is no developmental orientation. The indicators are very bureaucratic. They measure a number of projects; none of these indicators actually measure the result, but what was done with it, for example, for the economy. Many data are missing for 2015; the targets are very unambitious, much lower than they were set for 2008. What are we really going to do about this in 2015? And then we're talking about some developmental orientation, no, I'm sure it's not in this budget. If I stop at the Ministry of Economic Development for a while, according to the 2015 budget, we take 200 million from it. Here, there has been a reorganisation, we have a new service for development and cohesion, but any reduction in resources is greater than it was, and it is again at the expense of local self-government, at the expense of regional development and at the expense of the area of entrepreneurship and competitiveness. We're shrinking again where we shouldn't be. I also personally estimate that we have not added enough investment and, of course, the promotion of Slovenia's tourism, more about this then below. In view of the debate itself on the home Committee on Finance, it was still important to understand the number of irregularities and the high degree of uncertainty. For 11 cohesion projects relating to drinking water supply and wastewater treatment, where 34 municipalities and the value of more than 200 million are concerned, we did not know where the funds in the 2015 budget for 5 projects are, but we have already talked a lot about these projects in this National Assembly. There are no funds available for the already detected problem areas, such as Maribor with its surroundings and Pokhlopje elsewhere. And here I ask myself, what about all the other areas outside Ljubljana, a little away from Ljubljana, which are also very problematic. How's it going with them? Will we find any means to develop them? Perhaps these areas do not achieve unemployment of 17%. Why aren't they reaching? Because people have long since moved from these areas to towns near where they have jobs. But is that our goal? Do we not want Slovenia to have a balanced developmental orientation? Well, given what's going on here, I don't think so. If I only remember how the operational programme is adopted and we have a single asset for cohesion, not separately in the eastern and western parts, although the eastern part of Slovenia is significantly worse developed than the western part. In fact, there is also a questionable funding for learning aid, which has been written about. Police have also been exposed by the police union – they do not have enough resources to carry out basic police tasks: there is no money for emergency repairs of buildings, vehicles should be on average 9 years old, there is no money to change vehicles, there is no money to change vehicles, there is no money to support old ones, I really believe that many times maintaining this is more expensive than buying new vehicles, but we do not have money for it, nor do we have all the necessary investment jobs. And when all of these critical topics were highlighted, we received the response from the Minister of Finance that all these critical areas would be closely monitored and resolved across the board. What does that mean? At least another rebalancing. And what do we get with this budget? The increase of the budget deficit by more than €500 million to almost €1.4 billion, amounting to 2.89% of gross domestic product. I stress this because we are really close to this 3% limit. And once again, for interest we will also spend more than one billion, almost a billion 100 in 2015. Really scary for Slovenia. And this budget should be different. It's supposed to be developmental. Just because it is not development-oriented, there is no reform envisaged in it, I certainly cannot support this rebalancing.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u29	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr. Franco Jursha. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Vice President, a nice greeting to the ministerial team or representatives of the government, including your esteemed colleagues and colleagues! I may start with one fact about how we are aware of our parliamentary group, our party, what the state is like. And, of course, talking about and comparing the situation from before the years of fat cows, at this point, it would be very irresponsible. We also understand the people who live in this country and live on the threshold of poverty. I must begin by saying that our Group of Members has, like any party sitting in Parliament as well as out-of-parliamentary parties, some kind of programme and, of course, some vital issues. For our client and our group, vital issues are the coordination of pensions, regress or dragan supplement, if you want to get pensioners to burn, to buy trees to survive, and, of course, an independent demographic fund that we need to establish under legislation and, of course, also agreed in the coalition contract this year. If I move to a situation of awareness of the situation, I must say that in Slovenia it is already 61% of all pensioners live on the poverty threshold this year, and that this threshold of poverty is 593 euros. The average pension, however, is EUR 564. That is why, of course, we in our party, in our Group of Members, insist on certain facts. This is the coalition contract in which we wrote down when we will coordinate pensions. In order to tell you, as well as the Minister of Finance, that the coordination of pensions is not an increase in pensions, but that the coordination of pensions is in line with the growth of wages and the increase in living costs. This matter must be understood by all those who have discussed it on the parent’s working body as well as on other bodies. The democratic party of pensioners does not force an increase in pensions, in fact there have been no harmonisations in this segment since 2010. There was no comprehensive coordination. They were partial coordination. In recent years, of course, we have taken measures to freeze pensions. We simply cannot agree on this, because we have also written this in our Common Coalition Treaty if there is an economic growth of 2.5%, that we will then also coordinate pensions. Someone said today that we came to the Committee on Finance, monetary policy with the amendment at the last minute. This can be said by those who have not participated in coalition coordination. We didn't come at the last minute. We have presented everything loudly and further. Of course, maybe where we haven't been so accessible to the public. Also in public statements, our representatives spoke with me in charge of putting an amendment to the ZIPRS. In order to please someone’s memory, this amendment is not with the amendment and is not such an amendment that we have already adopted in some of the other governments in the past. I was very concerned when the president of the parent working body, a coalition colleague, even wanted to convince her mother's working body not to vote on the matter. After the intervention of a colleague from the opposition and our fellow Member's request, her heart softened and put it to the vote. I must warn you, President, you must no longer do this in the future. Since I've been talking about the reconciliation of pensions, I have to tell you that we haven't thought about how we're going to fill the banks. We've been throwing billions of shovels at these banks. But when we talk about a young man, a person who has spent his entire life paying for a pension may, at the end of the day, ask whether he will receive a well - deserved pension or not. With the Constitution, it's legal. We will have to realize that the country is made up of two and so many citizens and that for the 600 thousand, most of them, we have to take care of it in some way. This is what we stand for in our client. We've got a lot of calls. And you know what I do in the end, ask a citizen or a citizen, who you elected. You know, they tell me a lot of times, any party of us sitting in Parliament. I said, "Did you call this party and ask why we don't have pension coordination?" "No, because that's what you're up for." "Yes, we stand by and you must support us in these matters." Why is my debate this way? This is also due to the promise made by the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance that he would speak publicly, loudly and unequivocally about the speaker here that we would start talking as soon as the results of economic growth are known, about the possibility of reconciliation of pensions. We in our party, because we are a democratic party, are ready to talk and coordinate. We need to find the right solution. I call on you all once again to consider what growth means and what coordination means. These are two words with different conclusions. There's something else I'd like to say. I was deeply concerned when I listened to the discussion on the parent’s working body when someone said something about how our pension system works. My pension won't depend on how much I've paid and how many years I'll pay. On what, then, would the pension depend? Isn't that what these factors are? It is true that in the history of this country and in the past, we have donated some pensions according to another key. That's how the governments decided. They shared it with another key. But those who have been paying for 40 years at the pension register are indeed expected, and all those who are already retired expect to receive for what they have paid for, not for a decent life for luxury. Well, speaking of which, they did not ask themselves when we covered Bell 1 and Zvon 2 — that is a generous conservative policy with liberal economic inspiration. I expect colleagues from the point of view that such statements, thoughtless, would no longer be made in the future. How I will vote at the end of this debate on the proposal for a budget rebalancing for this year and on the Law on the Implementation of the Budget depends on what assurances I will get from the government representatives here today at this meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u31	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs. Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, chairman. Now I have felt that Mr Jurša is here on our side, acting on the side of the opposition. First of all, I will comment on the statement made by the President of the Government, which he made at a press conference about the preparation of the 2015 budget rebalancing. He said: "We are building the positive story that Slovenia needs. We will enable economic growth and thus employment to be achieved through a number of projects." I must say, I wonder if the President of the Government really had in mind the budget rebalancing when he said those words. I'm also wondering whether we're really going to spend almost 1.4 billion more in 2015 than we're going to create and create 170 million more deficits, or whether we're going to build a positive story. I don't see anything positive about that. The 2015 budget is known to all of us that it should be balanced according to the constitutional law on the fiscal rule, but it is not. This raises me the question of how the balance or budget will be coordinated or balanced, but if our coalition is not balanced or coordinated, as we could have seen earlier. On Tuesday, this coordination was demonstrated on the Committee on Finance, as Desus and SD proposed their amendments, party to Mira Cerar's amendment. And I think this coordination has begun to break slightly. If I go to the 2015 budget rebalancing itself. I'm going to stop at a plan to deal with the real property of the country, which is to say, in the possession and acquisition of property. Comparing these revenues of sales of basic assets and land, the budget is projected at 24 million and the real estate management plan provides for sales of 117.4 million. I'm not getting along here. There is also a derogation on the expenditure side. And if I compare here only the item Purchase of passenger cars, the budget for this is $8.8 million and the plan of conduct provides for the purchase of passenger cars 10.5 million. In this regard, I would now like to know whether the decree on the real estate plan to be adopted tomorrow is a binding act, or whether it is just a list of the wishes and needs of budgetary users. However, if I go to individual budget consumers, I could make a key point that this budget is purely about saving on the most vulnerable groups. Here I am thinking of budget lines that have fallen quite a bit. This is the area of work, family and social welfare, incentives for employment, protection of unemployed persons, long-term care. This is a 75 million-dollar cut. In the field of education, we know that funding for learning aid is still in the air. And unfortunately, we have also tabled an amendment to our party at Tuesday's meeting to devote an additional 4 million dollars to the budget for this purpose, but unfortunately this amendment has been rejected. Then we are surprised that the number of births of children is falling. Data show that 22 000 343 children were born in 2010 and only 21 000 111 children were born in 2013. So a thousand 200 children less. I am convinced that if young people had a job, an apartment, and could pay their bills, the number of births would not have fallen so drasticly. On Tuesday, we were also reminded by the President of the Police Unions that this year's budget rebalancing has taken as many as 14 million in relation to the implementation of the 2014 budget and that they are running out of 34 million for their regular activities this year. This is mainly about their operation and the prescribed equipment they need is called uniforms, protective equipment, so that we do not talk about cars at all. And if I stop here again on the real estate plan, the police have a planned purchase of 15 vehicles for 2015, I repeat, 15 vehicles, and we all know what a police car park is like. The Ministry of Environment and Space has a real estate plan to purchase 14 vehicles and the Ministry of Finance has a total of 45 vehicles. Now understand, if you can, because I don't understand. At the Tuesday session of the Finance Committee, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance said that the Government would "keep a close eye on the police area and, if necessary, ensure the normal functioning of the 2015 budget." Here I wonder why these funds are not already provided by this balance sheet. This situation has already been pointed out by the police union in the past year, and we have also had an extraordinary meeting on this subject. At the Tuesday session, an amendment was tabled on our part for additional funds in the field of police, but this amendment was also rejected. Well, it is good that at least a few more resources are made available in the field of health, where we have always found that reform is necessary and necessary, particularly in the field of legislation, conditions and equipment. However, I must also say here that I do not understand the behaviour of the coalition partners who, at the urgent meeting of the Health Committee, supported the conclusion that the emergency centre in Ptuj should be placed in the network of emergency centres, while the Committee on Finance's meetings did not support our amendment to make an additional million euros available in the budget for this purpose. Now I'm gonna stop by the congregations. In the municipalities, the country will save 60 million this year. By so cruelly reaching out to the average and referring to EUR 525 or reducing it to EUR 500.83 in the second half of the year, and by reducing the investment transfer under Article 21 of the Law on Community Financing from 2 to 1%, I think that the country has made a drastic impact on the autonomy of local self-government. The average has not been aligned with the Government's methodology regulation since 2010. According to this methodology, the average for this year should be EUR 662. However, the average decreased by 4,7 % according to 2014. I am also surprised, as we have already heard in the debate, that the presidents of the so-called SOS and ZOS have stated that they are very pleased with the negotiations with the representatives of the Government, while the letters of the municipalities or their mayors expressing their dissatisfaction with these negotiations, which rain on our addresses. And here I would also like to say that let us stop saying that the congregations are too many and that the number of employees in the congregations has increased. I think it is in the small congregations that we can see that the development of the periphery has gone very upward. We need to know that our citizens live on the periphery, too, and our citizens live not only in the centres and cities. In this regard, I was also surprised by the statement made by the Ministry's representative at the meeting of the Committee on the Interior, which said that they had checked all the budgets of the Slovenian municipalities and that there were no difficulties in financing and paying the outstanding obligations and that the number of employees should be checked. I have to say here that I have no words. And then I'm not surprised the government comes with such proposals for a budget rebalancing. In all this, I find it interesting that no one asks how much costs have been incurred by setting up three new ministries at the beginning of this mandate, how many public servants have been employed, what are the material costs and the labour costs, what are their effects. We will spend as much as 11 million this year or in the budget only on the information equipment of the Ministry of Public Administration. If I can sum it up. The country's debt and interest are rising. The deficit is increasing, taxes are increasing, we have an inefficient financial system, we don't know how to tackle the so-called grey or black economy, we don't have the right measures to start the economy, we don't have the standard of living falling. We're going down on all the competitiveness scales. Companies are going abroad and our children are with them, and the President of the Government is building a positive story, economic growth and the start-up of investments. I'm afraid we can't agree on that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u33	Thank you very much. I give my word to Dr. Franz Krizanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Chairman. Government representatives! Dear High Council! In front of us, the 2015 budget rebalancing in the context of dynamic economic growth, on a healthy basis, on the surplus in external trade, which is stable, reaches 5% to 6% of gross domestic product, is diversified by sectors, it is said to be distributed, dispersed, exports are growing across different sectors and different areas. We still have a reserve to speed up the domestic sector, the one that sells mostly at home, but this is to establish some normal functioning of our banking system, in particular what has been invested there. This will be discussed later, but the changed business model, changed criteria, more partner monitoring of debtors in the economy, also called by non-financial companies, would significantly accelerate economic growth in a shorter period in Slovenia and would also improve public finances. Unlike what some previous colleagues and colleagues have said, the market prospects are good. The ECB has started with a so-called quantitative release, which will lead not only to relief in Slovenia, because the banking system here will not let go further if I express myself a little in the parable, but in our partners in confidence. We have Junker's plan for further acceleration of economic growth. We can call it Marshall's plan at home. The euro rate has fallen, and this will significantly improve the situation not only in other markets, in our own home market, of the 500 million market, because we will be more competitive. Economic partnerships in the European Union, the US, China, India are also growing. Although we have problems in Russia, it will affect us to some extent, but because we are scattered enough, we will somehow endure this. Indicators confirm this, industrial production or actual income in industry was 10 % higher in December than in December before, this is also due to a day more, but this shows that growth dynamics are high. Employment – while the number of active workers is decreasing seasonally, unemployment is increasing seasonally, but compared to the year, we had more or more than 1.1% jobs in December than we had in the year before. This is also one of the signals that economic growth remains relatively high. The annual comparison is improving from month to month. On this basis, we can look forward to a better tide than the government has predicted, rather than worse, and we cannot be pessimistic here. This, however, gives the government some room for manoeuvre so that it can allocate budgetary resources. If I'm going to the budget rebalancing now, then it must be said that he is extremely keynesianally set, this would be confirmed by the introduction of Prof. Dr. Dusan Marble. It will probably contribute up to 1.6%, little less than 2% of gross domestic product growth will only come from this fiscal escapation, which is planned if implemented and implemented in the first half of the year. This is a risk, if not, that effect will not be passed on until next year. This is the first time since the start of the crisis that such an impact of domestic demand will be because, of course, the public deficit has increased before, but is mainly due to the fall of the public financial inflows in the wake of that unfortunate tax reform from 2007 and then repeated to a much smaller extent in early 2012. There are two problems with this balance sheet. One is the provision of normal social reproduction. Something about this has already been said. Of course, we have subsystems that depend on the functioning of our society and which also depend on exports at the final stage, and these systems are threatened by such a tense budget. One is education. In higher education alone, 20 million fell towards 2014. I don't know how this can be covered when this Bologna reform is introduced. Then we saw additional learning aid, and the word could also run on the financing of interesting activities in schools. Then it's a big security issue. At the police station, we had to write down what the budget is like to ensure its normal functioning. During the period of the Social Democratic Government, coalition, but we had the majority, the police received about 336 million a year. Now, after this budget, there will be only 279 more. That's a 17% incursion. However – and here this is important – those who get the most upset, though upset rightly, have contributed little to this decline. In 2012, these funds decreased by 27 million. Now the hands of those who somehow planned it, and now at least continue the tradition. So this ZUJF here has done a lot of damage. Then others who are hand-cuffed reduced by 11 million in 2013 and 2014. So I'd say, yes, here's where it's gonna have to be fixed, and here's where the secretary of state said we're gonna have to redistribute. The redistribution will have to start in the first half of the year, and even to the extent that it has been detected by a police union, in order for this subsystem to function normally, but which is necessary for all other subsystems to operate, not to create a illusion. The same applies to military defence. A predatory instinct is probably as old as a human and you have to have a certain defense to make that instinct go away. Although, of course, the attack on Slovenia is now under way at a different level, we will also talk about this matter differently. But denying this attack is not wise to deny it. [[…]] If there is an opportunity and time, during the period of the attack on Belgium in World War I, their King Albert II said that a state defending itself cannot fail. So, in the area of normal operation of subsystems and social reproduction, there will be major spillages, perhaps even a rebalance, and we will support and support the rebalancing, as we are a government party. I would end up with this rebalance showing a huge lack in promoting a knowledge society. There was more to that than my colleagues who had already arrived. Slovenia is a development-based economy. 2.6% of gross domestic product investments are devoted to R & D investments. In particular, the country has begun to lead the country intensively with the performance of the Social Democratic Government. At that time, we raised the state share of this to 0.8%, slightly lower, now, after this 2015 budget, but it will fall back to where 2008, 0.5% will be, even in 2013 it was 0.6%. So, state funds are dropping. And in the budget, look what you have, one of these papers says, I'll literally read it because it's interesting. At the science budget. "In order to significantly reduce funding for scientific and research activities from 2012 onwards, the objective of indicators has been adjusted." Thus, even the indicators had to be adapted to the means, if not, science would seem so ineffective that it would end up saying that it is no longer worth supporting. What can save us here because some optimism should be. It saves us in some way that we have the advantage of promoting the introduction of new technologies, science, scientific research throughout the interconnection, mainly by European means, and that in a smart specialisation project we can expect these funds to move forward, both to the economy and to the laboratories and institutes. However, in the end, the overall impact will not significantly reduce what is key, which is close to 3% of the gross domestic product intended for research and development at macroeconomic level. In short, if I pull it off. The odds aren't bad. The budget has come up with a situation resulting from reckless tax reforms 2007 and 2012, so we have a relatively low level of revenue collected in gross domestic product, too low for such a company at the post-industrial stage of development. Some adjustments will be necessary here. On the other hand, the tides will undoubtedly increase, and the government will, I expect, have the possibility of flooding, perhaps even a rebalancing to ensure the normal functioning of social reproduction and once again the conditions of development policy, which will create conditions for us to continue as a knowledge society, build our competitiveness and ensure both economic and other security. And in this, we expect the Social Democrats to benefit all people, not only those who are economically most successful. In this context, we also support the gradual introduction of pension adjustment, social assistance, child allowances, in particular the sixth grade needs to be corrected very quickly in order to prevent poverty in our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Luka Moon has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. My consideration of the general part of the budget will go through the three positions we have heard in the introductory presentations by representatives of the government coalition. First of all, Simona Kustec Lipicer said in the position of the Mir Cerar Party that the budget that we have before us is not the result of some public financial consideration, a vision of this government or a coalition, but is made on the basis of the previous one. That's true, and that's exactly what we're criticizing. This budget is not made on the basis of some strategic reflection, on the basis of the question what Slovenia needs at this time, but it is a recycling of the budget, which occurred two years ago in substantially different circumstances than we have today. If we had panic in the financial markets at the time, we wondered if the troika would come to Slovenia, we were recording economic growth in 2014 and 2015. The political situation in Europe is changing, and this is the wind in the sails, which Slovenia should also cover, and it is not with this budget. On the contrary, all missing policies have continued since previous years. If we look at the revenue side of the budget, we see that the government has forgotten about the rich. If I look at the expense side, we see she's forgotten about the poor. If I can give just one plastic case, in the United Left we have already proposed four months ago when we are addressing the 2014 budget rebalancing so that the richest groups of the population should be taxed slightly higher so that, with the income rate we have proposed, they can receive an additional EUR 30 million in the budget. On the expenditure side, this would mean, for example, that there would be no need to reduce scholarships this year. The scholarships will fall by 30 million euros or so per third. So to every fellow this government will be, because it didn't want to tax the richest people who didn't know about it, it would be better for every fellow to deduct a third of his income, which means, say, if someone has 200 euros in scholarships, they will now receive 135. These are the consequences of this policy that we have in front of us in the budget. If I go a little further to the spending side when I said the government had forgotten about the poor, here we see that transfers to the unemployed are falling by 93 million euros. Similarly, I think about 30%, if I counted correctly. It is already true that unemployment has decreased slightly in Slovenia recently, but the fact is that it is still a minimum of €350 gross or €270 net of the unemployed receiving it. At this point, I'm asking the government coalition, who can survive with 270 euros a year to further reduce this item? That's outrageous. I think the government here should seriously ask whether these numbers are sustainable and how someone in Slovenia can live with two thirds of the minimum cost of living charged six years ago. These are the facts that we see in this draft budget. But all of this, I think, here I go to Dusan Mumorro's next statement, which comes from the logic that the government will launch or stimulate economic growth by cutting social and social savings into investments. That's wrong again. For the last time, Bogomir Kovac has made it very clear that this so-called fiscal neutral investment, where we take something from one budget item and redirect investments, does not have a positive impact, not a short-term one at all. In fact, if social spending increases consumption and thus stimulates economic growth – today the investment in which the government is now diverting money – it only stimulates it in the medium term, while at the same time its effects are significantly lower than if the state took investment from the richest by luxury and so on. So, by non-productive savings and non-productive consumption. And now he's taking the poorest ones, the ones who spend the most on the way, and he's essentially going to reject domestic consumption for a short period of time. And thirdly, Prime Minister Miro Cerar reiterated in his opening address the assumption that the country was a household. We have been alerting this in the United Left since the elections, for several years now, the state has not been a household. And if we can learn something in the last six years of the crisis, it is precisely if household revenues are to be cut, of course, that one has to save if the country is to reduce income, and it has to increase consumption in order to start the economy again. And because Slovenia and Europe have not done so in the last six years, we have lost 8% of GDP compared to the United States, which is relying on different policies. They are already aware of this in the European Commission and European centres, and the question is when will this wind reach Slovenia as well. In the United Left, of course, we hope that as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u38	Your Honor, hello! Budget or rebalancing is like a short blanket, if we pull it against our necks, we get cold in our feet, if we cover our legs, we get cold in our necks. So it's important how we shrink down and how comfortable we get as comfortable as possible under this short blanket. However, the numbers are always a reflection of the right or wrong measures. So the numbers don't just come from themselves, but they depend on whether we have proposed good measures, whether we have reduced at the appropriate end of consumption, or whether we have done everything we can to promote economic growth and thus new revenues. Sometimes I wonder when I listen to some of the speakers from some of the parties, specifically Mr Jurša of Desus, because I felt like we, the opposition, were preparing this budget balance and that we are so hardhearted that we are not to raise pensions. Yes, decent pensions must have all those who are retired, but these pensions are a reflection of the measures that have been taken in the past. As far as I know, Desus has been in government since 1996, with the exception of six months, so you have proposed not enough measures to promote economic growth, employment and thus better pensions. When the Lord also spoke of the firmness of the heart not to soften, I must conclude that the heart of the coalition has not been softened once when the opposition has submitted 40 more. Not once. I say that there is also a lack of emotional intelligence here, because if we want to be all involved, then it would be right if at least some complement of the opposition were accepted and taken into account, because I think we did not have large demands. At least, but the heart hasn't softened once. In the meantime, it is incomprehensible — a coalition that is constantly aligned comes to a meeting with some amendments that are totally inconsistent, and you have had time to do so. The opposition has no time to coordinate with you to be our amendments. I understand these supplements were just a quick commercial, that's all. Well, if I say what I think is positive about this rebalancing. Definitely an effort to make the deficit below 3% of GDP. Of course, we can spend money when we have money; but when we do not have it, it is only right to reduce our spending, but where we are — it is also a sober, wise decision. And just setting up a demographic fund will not be enough to solve our problems. It is precisely because of the changed demographic picture that we will have increasing health problems. Already a long waiting line, already patients in the hallways, unpaid overtime, too few employees and so on, but I can't hear anywhere, I can't see that there would be a health reform somewhere in sight. I must say, the doctors are very concerned. Very worried! No health reforms in sight. These are once again those measures that will decide on the next budgets, whether we will implement them in time, when we will implement them and how. I was surprised to learn that with this budget rebalancing we will promote economic growth. Where are those measures? Thank God that there are some companies in the economy that are doing well, exporting, and that is why economic growth is also, and also because of the use of European funds. However, I still do not see those measures that would actually have an impact on lower unemployment and higher economic growth due to real measures. Science is certainly one of the right measures for higher economic growth. And here, too, the heart of the coalition has not been softened when we talked about that the science budget has fallen by 25% since 2008. In this area, there are highly qualified personnel, doctors, some multiple doctors, and they don't have a basic salary. I don't know how many projects they're involved in to somehow get their basic salary. And even here, nothing softened and warmed. On the other hand, we know that young, educated people are going to where science is valued because they know that only in this way will they be able to compete in the world with new knowledge, with new products. Science is still important, and our young people are going where science is valued and respected, where they also see the momentum of development. I believe that we still have a lot of reserves in the field of action in Slovenia. One of these is certainly to reduce bureaucracy as promised to the congregations. Well, I don't know if these measures are actually going to make a lot of savings, but I do want to, because I can always hear how long they've been waiting on different permits, not to talk about building permits, how many years it takes to adopt spatial plans; and that's what makes investments, so production can't expand. Every day we hear – from Akrapovich, Boscarola, brewery abroad, etc. Slovenia therefore has development potential – from tourism, agriculture and complementary activities, economies. By reducing various bureaucratic barriers, we have potential. The right measures are needed and then I believe that this budget blanket will be at least once roughly legal.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u39	Thank you. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Ministers, Secretary of State, Secretary of State, Secretary of State; colleagues and colleagues, welcome! Today we are talking about the 2015 budget. For me, this is the first document that this new government has examined substantively, that is to be examined in substance, that it should also be prepared qualitatively, and that it should show some direction in the development of the Slovenian state. Regardless of the rebalancing we are talking about amending the 2015 budget, we can say that we are at the beginning of the year and that the direction of development and the objective should be set and made clear. And there should be clear ways to achieve this goal. But, unfortunately, that's not the case. Unfortunately, this is the continuation of a previous budget of the former government. Of course, this government has shown nothing. It has not shown priority, nor has it shown measures or ways to reduce the public financial deficit and how to reduce the indebtedness of citizens and citizens. That invisible indebtedness of citizens and citizens, which we say is a public debt, but this public debt will have to be repaid by citizens and citizens. I don't think this budget is in line with the Constitution either. We have a fiscal rule written in the Constitution today, we have a fiscal rule. In fact, the Fiscal Rule Act is in the first reading; with the ambition to move on. This budget should already be in line with the fiscal rule in the Constitution, where we are also talking about 2015. Neither in the document itself nor in the words on when the fiscal rule will actually be established by law. We know that this should happen as soon as possible because we have also supported the first reading of the Fiscal Rule Act in the Slovenian Democratic Party. But that doesn't mean a front page. The question is, in fact, the time frame, when this will happen. We expect this to happen very quickly, says further consideration of the Fiscal Rule Act in the National Assembly – not in the coalition. The coalition is about a coalition. I'm interested in the National Assembly. There should be some additional effort here to make this budget credible in some way; if there are any transitional provisions in the Fiscal Rule Act, which will determine in what time frame the budget will actually be such that the Constitution will not be violated. If we are talking about the priorities of this budget, then we can see that these priorities are not actually there. On the one hand, we are talking about an increase or more of the government is talking about increasing investment funds to a very low base, in my opinion, in 2014, so this increase will come to about 40%; and this will be based solely on projects from the European Union. I am pleased with these projects, I am pleased that at least this way in the country is invested; but some other investments, both at the state level and at the local level, are not actually in the budget. We can talk today and hear a lot about the second track and so on. The second track, I'll say, has been ready for at least 10 years. For at least 10 years, and in fact, we are always at the beginning, even because interests are set here, what will actually happen. In short, there is no development here, there is no indication of any investment objective; everything is moving forward more smoothly. It is worrying in this budget that the internal government is not coordinated. He's out of line between individual ministries. And I think that individual ministers and ministers are pressing their teeth right now because there is not enough money in their area. Of course, I will not talk about all those areas where ministers and ministers want more money; but I will talk about a few areas that are key to human security, for the perspective of people and for people in this country to feel sufficiently secure and have a perspective. One of the areas that is not coordinated, including with the Committee of the National Education Council, is the provision of sufficient educational resources for the so-called learning aid. In other words, this year there will be no money to ensure that children have a school in nature so that they can go to music schools; or the contribution of parents here will increase considerably, even by five or six times. And this is inconsistent with the call of the Education Committee to devote 4 million of this money to education. It's not like that. And also the amendment – I read the government's response to this amendment – is negative. What it means, in other words, is that the coalition is strong here, despite the fact that the interests of the minister covering this area are completely different. And she was also provided with more money on the board. I will associate this amendment with another amendment, an amendment that concerns both education and youth. And this is an amendment to ensure 500 000 euros for young people. Young people usually or generally go to school, which means that it is a connection, to co-finance a programme of youth organisations, youth centres, in short, youth — 500,000. And the government's response here is also negative, by reasoning that these funds would be taken from the title of protocol events – the RS Government's Communication Office and the General Secretariat of the Government of RS, which are earmarked for the financing of JGZ Brdo, these funds are planned in accordance with the planned activities of the Public Economic Office of Brdo. I went again to look at the scientific work of my colleague Alenka Bratušek, who from this topic mastered – JGZ Brdo. I have found that this public economic institution – and it also writes about it – is also acquiring funds in a marketed way. In other words, it means that its services – catering, hotel, accommodation and so on – are sold on the market. And the prices shown in this master's section are significantly lower than the prices in other restaurants in other guest establishments. And I don't see any reason why the 500 grand protocol of the Public Economics Institute of Brdo would be devoted to young people. But the government and the coalition say no. No, the protocol on the Hill must work, the prices must be as they are – they are low. Look at the prices there compared to some other guesthouses compared to the accommodations. But who's gonna enjoy the hill there? Who? Sometimes the football team has preparations there, but mostly there are ministers, presidents and so on. The hill then sends an account to the General Secretariat of the Government and it is, of course, a very low cost, a lower cost than going to the Hotel Union for example. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, it's a principle. Who do you support? Young or protocol? Or young or representative ministers, presidents and all of us, if you will. This is about the principle. This isn't about 500 000 euros. This is about vision and strategy if you want. This amendment symbolically represents the vision and strategy of the government of Mir Cerar. Symbolic. I'm sorry. The amendment's in the debate. You have a chance to change that. You have a chance, look at the master's work, scientific work on it, look at it, and you'll see it's possible, colleague Alenka Bratušek. In this regard, it must be said that this budget does not give young people a perspective. Not only does it not give young people employment, but it is not only that there are no changes in other areas that are important to young people. No, actually, they're still here. And then we're going to ask ourselves, and we're going to talk here, in this place, about young people, why do they go abroad, why do they go to school here and go abroad, why do they live on the edge of society, why don't they get involved in social events?Oh, my God! Young people don't go to hills and protocol facilities. The hill has a long history. From King Alexander forward, Broz and so on. All the presidents took pictures, ate, drank, slept. I don't think Hill needs 500 grand of extra money, but young people need it. Symbolically speaking, there is simply no incentive for young people here. And then there's the rumor that young people don't have a perspective in this country and there's nothing to be done. Then we ask ourselves in the budget whether we are willing to give them additional money and support this amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party. For 500 000 euros, the budget will not fall, nothing will happen in Brussels, it will not happen at the IMF, there will be no more deficits and no more debt. The next area that matters here is security. I have already asked myself on the Committee on Finance what must happen in this country in the area of security in order for the police to get 4 million more to repair the roof, to buy new tires so that they can do basic safety work. I didn't get an answer. If something happens in the area of security, something negative, what is happening in Europe today, what is happening in Denmark today, what is happening in Paris, God forbid anything like this to happen, or any other natural disaster, then this will be ensured by reallocations. But it's untransparent, ladies and gentlemen, it's just a fire extinguisher. From this point of view, I think that, even because of what the police union has said, this amendment, which talks about $4 million for the police, should be supported by the police to carry out the basic tasks. Urgently because you accept this, the coalition, and the responsibility for it. On the other hand, there is a third area that I would like to talk about now. This is about security, it's about road infrastructure. On the one hand, there's not enough money for the police, on the other hand, there's not enough money for people to travel and drive on safe roads, safe bridges, safe sidewalks, safe pedestrian crossings. We are in such a state that there is indeed despair in some areas of the country. And there is no extra money for that, either, in this coalition and in this government, because the government does not support these amendments either. In addition to the fact that this budget is internally inconsistent between individual ministers and ministers, I am also concerned about the functioning of this government that it is inconsistent with coalition partners. What you agreed to, you made a deal. Here I would ask the representatives of Desus, colleagues from Desus, not to look at us when they speak of an increase in pensions. Make each other happy. You had an amendment that was rejected by your coalition partners on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. You're saying there's a need to increase pensions; reconcile pensions; I apologize. This is not an increase, but this alignment does not mean a smaller pension, but probably a higher pension, so I understand, in absolute terms, for people. To reconcile, to apologize, to reconcile pensions. And this is where it has to be addressed, I am just warning, for the first time, the constitutional fiscal rule; and for the second time, the fact that it is probably necessary to coordinate – I am saying this more to the government than to Desus – also to the rest of the population in the public sector. I know that you have this written in a coalition agreement, so you will fight to make him respect each other. Don't look at the opposition then. I am talking about the macroeconomic effects on this and the fairness that it is likely that young people should also be given. There is probably intergenerational solidarity, there is intergenerational solidarity, which is bilateral, probably. It can be understood as mutual solidarity, older young and younger. At least that's how I understand it. Once we're all young, once we're all old, somehow that's how it goes. And we're all solidarity forever, with each other. That's right. I don't mind. But do what you've agreed to. And we're a little sick of hearing your disharmony. Take a 45-minute break and go make a deal. I think it's only right that you consider yourself a coalition; and that you also deal with the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State has asked for the floor. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. Allow me to respond to a few discussions in the first round of the general debate on the budget balance. This budget balance, like any budget balance or baseline budget, is prepared on the basis of macroeconomic assessments prepared by the competent official institutions of the country. According to the law, it is always necessary to take into account the latest public forecast of macroeconomic indicators, and according to this starting point this budget balance is also based on the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development winter forecast – Umar, which predicts 2% economic growth for this year. True, it is an assessment, but the assessments of other institutions are quite similar. For example, in its winter forecast of Slovenia, the European Commission is forecasting 1.8% of economic growth this year. There's something else. All of these estimates have proved to be those where the gap between the actual realisation we are looking at in relation to the official data provided by the Statistical Office and the smallest estimate. For this reason, we estimate that the starting points on which the proposal for a budget rebalancing is based are realistic and actually feasible this year, as regards economic growth and the reduction of the number of unemployed or the growth of employment in the country. It is also very important for the preparation of the rebalancing, as the Minister has already mentioned in the introduction, for the assessment of Death as regards inflation this year. A key stimulus to economic growth must be a stable fiscal framework and such a fiscal consolidation that will not prevent growth in consumption; this is also the focus of the budget rebalancing. If I go a little bit further on specific questions. First on the revenue side. Estimates of income growth in this year are the result of actual income estimates in 2014. The basis is an assessment of employment growth and a forecast of wage developments in the private and public sectors. In the field of excise duties, it is also crucial to take into account that the trend of decreasing sales of excise duties in the second half of last year has calmed down and can be relied on for stable consumption or even for a certain increase in consumption in terms of projected economic growth, particularly in the area of energy consumption. In the area of dividends, we expect, in this year's year's income to be approximately the same as that achieved last year, and we estimate that this estimate is realistic. On the expenditure side, there are also some highlights. First of all – what about the savers of the Ljubljana Bank in Bosnia and Croatia? This year, we are obliged, in accordance with the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, to prepare the legal basis for the payment of these damages. Preparation of legal bases is under way. Framework assessments have also been made on how many such payments can be expected, but these payments depend on the course of concrete procedures to be determined by law. As a result, large payments calculated on the basis of the cash flow are not expected this year and for these payments are provided under the Succession Fund. More attention will have to be paid in the coming years. As regards the assessment of the expenditure referred to in this Title under the accounting flow, however, expenditure was recorded in 2014 during so-called one-off events or one-off financial effects. As a result, we do not expect any negative adjustments to this year's cash-flow deficit accounted for by the accounting principle. Expenses for municipalities. The fact is that we have agreed in negotiations with the municipalities to reduce the average, which provides municipalities with the means to fulfil their legal obligations. The fact is that we have agreed to reduce investment transfer under Article 21 of the Law on the Financing of Municipalities from 22 million to 11 million. At the same time, however, we have agreed to implement measures that will reduce the costs for the municipalities; and the first set of measures is already on the table today or will be dealt with tomorrow. This is a set of measures included in the intervention law. For other measures that we have agreed with the congregations that we need a little more time, it is agreed to put them into effect by 30. 6. However, from the perspective of the budget rebalancing and from the point of view of the investment cycle warnings in municipalities, it should be noted that this rebalancing of the budget for municipalities provides 487 million investment transfers; not only 11 million under Article 21 of the Law on Community Financing, but 487 million. Last year's realisation was 410 million. Most of these investment funds are at the expense of completing the old financial perspective, where municipalities bear a great deal of weight in cohesion projects; but nevertheless, these are the funds provided to municipalities for their investment activities. The question was raised regarding eleven cohesion policy projects that have failed to run for the use of funds from old cohesion, which are agreed in cooperation with the municipalities, in order to give priority to the implementation of the new financial perspective. Seven of these projects are subject to formal conditions in order to be able to implement them or to be implemented already; they will be provided with funding as soon as the formalities for drawing on the European funds of the new financial perspective are completed. For four projects, the opinion of the European institutions must also be obtained because of their environmental impact. The resources necessary to enable this year to carry out what is necessary in relation to these projects are provided by the European Cohesion Policy Office, the Water Management sub-programme and the Climate Change Management sub-programme; a total of €24 million. This is indeed less than the value of these eleven projects, but these are the resources needed to start projects this year, as all eleven projects are for such activities that cannot be carried out in one calendar year. The amount of interest that we have to pay this year is not a reflection of the current borrowing procedures, but a reflection of all the debt we have so far. These interest rates amount to around 40 million less than the required interest payments in last year. This reduction is based on the fact that several debts with higher interest rates were repaid in last year or this year; and refinancing can be provided at lower interest rates. With regard to social transfers, I should point out that the scope of social transfers is comparable to that of 2014. It is true that the estimated consumption in these areas in the budget balance is significantly lower than in the budget adopted, but we must not forget that the changed economic situation has a strong impact on the expenditure under this heading. As has been pointed out in the introduction by several discussers, this reduction is not at the expense of reducing or any additional restriction on the rights to social transfers; it is due to the changed situation, and therefore also to the reallocation between different types of transfers. With regard to the grant funds. Unfortunately, Mr. Mesco isn't with us, but I believe he's listening. During the discussion, he assessed spending exclusively on the use of integral resources, where a good 50 million grant funds were foreseen. However, he did not take into account that there are still €37.4 million in the grant budget fund. In the area of integral resources, less resources are foreseen for this year with a rebalancing than in the adopted budget; however, we must take into account at the same time the realisation of these expenditure in 2014, which amounted to 45,5 million on the part of the integral resources. However, higher expenditure from the budget fund was foreseen than in this year. As a result, we are adding more resources from integrated funds this year, in view of the realisation in 2014. With regard to warnings concerning the fiscal rule or the compatibility of this budget balance with the Constitution. The government's assessment is that this proposal for a rebalancing is in line with the constitutional fiscal rule, and we are also taking very seriously the commitment to confirm the fiscal rule in the first reading at the January meeting of the National Assembly. As a result, we are directing our own attention or great efforts to prepare the amendments in time for the Fiscal Rule Act to be discussed at the March Assembly. Other information about investments. It was mentioned that investment is indeed increasing, but that the base is small. Once again, in 2014, investment and investment transfers were earmarked for a billion EUR 100 million of budget resources of all kinds, earmarked, integrated and European, representing 11.4% of total budget expenditure. This year we are earmarking €550 million for investments, representing 15.6% of the total state budget. With regard to the expenditure for young people mentioned, I should mention that, as a number of other areas mentioned in the debate, additional resources could be added to each area if public funding were allowed. Thus, a balance must be found between what is desirable and what is possible. Let me just point out that the Youth Office had a million 809 million expenditure in last summer. This year, we are increasing their expenditure to a million 826 million. At the same time, of course, it must be borne in mind that these are not the only expenditure earmarked for this area. For example, only under the same programme is the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport allocated €31 million. So much in this circle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u43	Thank you. Since the list is exhausted, I wonder if there's anyone else who wants to discuss it. We're starting the application. Mrs. Marinka Levicar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u44	Dear Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! It is clear to me that the proposal for the 2015 budget rebalancing has achieved the basic objective and that there has been a need for considerable compromises at various levels. If I expose some ministries, I think some ministries take too much. For example, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs, I only cite as an example. Some are given too much, for example, to the Ministry of Defence. I agree that this ministry will receive almost €7 million more money for protection and rescue because this is absolutely necessary; however, this ministry is also expected to receive around €11 million for the purchase of military vehicles, anti-lock missiles and unmanned aircraft. What will we have for the citizens, I wonder, when the Ministry of Labour, compared to the budget adopted, are we going to cut the funds by around 130 million? For the unemployed, about 23 million — on the grounds that the number of beneficiaries will be lower. That's still questionable. I'm afraid what happens if the number of beneficiaries doesn't go down. Regarding the reduction of funding for scholarships and food for students and students, the lady has already said so that she would not have warned again. I'd like to move on. The budget balance does not allow pensions to be valorised this year, although the coalition agreements provide that they will be harmonised if GDP is higher than 2.5% – and it is likely to be. I am sorry that we also save with pensioners, although the average pension in Slovenia, as our group leader has already said, is €563, which is at the edge of poverty. Madam NSI's champion warned in her debate that this annex was to coordinate pensions, a quick advertisement that we wanted to make an advertisement for our client. I think Mrs Novakova is very wrong about this. We really wanted, really wanted to ensure that this balance also ensured reconciliation of pensions if growth was higher than 2.5%. Since we have failed in previous negotiations with the coalition, we have no choice but to make this an advertisement for us. The balance sheet states in the section of the Ministry of Finance that more than €100 million will be allocated for pension protection. This is the State's commitment to STIs, which it accepted in order to reduce the employer's contribution rates from a long time ago in 1998, when the liabilities or contributory rate of employers for contributions to pension and disability insurance were almost halved; and for the payment of part of pensions recognised under special conditions and for the difference between the revenue generated by the STIs by contributions and the deficit. Thus, in order to ensure that the income and expenditure of PSIZ are offset in this way, this means that there will be a smooth payment of pensions and any other benefits paid by the pension institution. This seems fine to me, and I would ask the Secretary of State to confirm whether I am right or wrong, that it is ensured that this is a smooth and timely payment of all the benefits provided by the pension law and the state with this law. Representatives of the government and ministries stressed that the rebalancing is geared towards further economic recovery, greater economic growth and thus the number of employees. I am pleased to see how the Ministry of Infrastructure has made a choice of investments in rail infrastructure. Because I come from the Kočev region alone, and there is no way they can come to build a 20km missing railway line from Ribnica to Kočev; all the documentation has been made to work every day in Ljubljana and back around 2 000 people; not to mention the costs, the dangers of everyone on the road. In addition, it should be stressed that the nomadic area is now one of the most socially threatened areas, that the unemployment rate is the highest since the entire timber industry has collapsed, the processing industry. By building this railway line, completion of construction would have an impact on increased economic growth and increased employment in the area. As much as I wanted to contribute to this debate now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr Primož Hainz has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I think that this rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, as some have said, is not counter-crisis, indevelopment; but I think that this is more moody or prepared somehow counter-crisis, but developmental is a little less. Except in this context, if we could overcome this crisis this year, then this budget would definitely be more, in a sense, developmental if I understood the Minister correctly. These days, when we discuss this, we would not be praising this budget, but we are discussing all the time where money could be saved or where there is no money. I am also a member of some committees or as far as I am listening – of course we save in children in education, help children, save in pensions where there is a whole series of comments, and I will not repeat this argument. [[advertising from the hall]] All right, save it. Then in public health, you know what kind of trouble nurses are in, what kind of trouble is the intensive section of the Ljubljana Clinical Center. We can't sort things out there either. Then we save on culture. Yesterday we had a discussion about the Slovenian Science Institute in Vienna. [[advertising from the hall]] I'd ask nicely, Madam Vice President, because I have a strong voice, but it bothers me to talk to my colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u47	I ask that we show respect for our colleagues and give them a chance to speak theirs and just calm down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u48	Yesterday we learned or know for a while, but yesterday this debate was that we were years ago, that the Slovenian University had abolished Knaflje's home in Vienna, which is not the fault of the government, but this happened in connection with the Slovenian Institute of Science. Then he has problems Slovenian Cultural Information Centre in Vienna; that we sold or sold Slovenian Bookstore in Trieste, Slovenian Bookstore in the municipalities. We are all talking about this culture, which is not only at home, which is also in crisis, but about culture as a Slovenian cultural space as a whole – to where Slovenians reach and live. Then there's not enough money for science. There's not enough money for cops. Of course, the police union reacted, but at this point it was rejected, but the fact is, given security, the police would have earned more. And in that context, if I may say so, I turned on teletext at home the other night and I see an invitation from the Ministry of Defence, a public tender for 300 vehicles and drones. Then I wrote to the President of the Government a letter, which was somehow left by the President, which was also almost understandable in some way, without response; but the Minister of Defence was in public reply. I must say, there is no doubt about drones. I think it's a means of aggression that we don't need these planes at home. The excuse that this is for some kind of defense, or excuse me, for natural disasters is of course not true. For natural disasters in Slovenia, I would need some helicopter more, equipped with a helicopter. Only images of the situation from the air do we need in case of real help in the event of natural disasters. The other is the problem with the vehicle issue. Three hundred -- I said, roughly. It's 272 plus 40 vehicles. And here I believe the Ministry of Defense that these vehicles are absolutely needed. And then there was a warning or an explanation that we were going to buy these vehicles gradually to sell the old vehicles. A few days ago, we found out they'd also sell weapons we don't need. I think that's right, and at this point, I have to say that the explanation came a little too late, as far as I'm concerned. I think that's the only right thing, I don't see the real reason why these vehicles are and why these weapons have been in storage for so long. The tanks that were mentioned and that really stood high were not mentioned there, but we will also slowly, hopefully, find out. But I was surprised by the possibility that defence funds would avoid the Maastricht criteria. I don't think it's the right way here. We said that all the savings we do, the whole budget we do, is to frame it to 3%; not because of Europe, if I say so, but because of ourselves, because some minimum savings are the initial basis for – again, I apologize for not going out – the minimum basis that we can then be more creative in economic investment. I think that all the resources of the Ministry of Defence are also the resources of the State or citizens or the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and cannot be out of this context. Therefore, all funds, including military funds, should be sold and purchased by public procurement. So if it's 200, 300 cars, then we should give those cars that the government needs, on a joint order, and then it'll be cheaper. In principle, I stress, together and on the basis of public procurement. Then there is the question why the Ministry of Defence does not sell the empty apartments it has. I don't run into numbers, I haven't checked it, but everyone is telling me that there are still some military forces on defense that are out of military service, but actually the Ministry of Defence is holding them somehow. We know this problem, too. In particular, I know the problem in Vrhnika, where the minister once even promised to try to solve this problem a few months ago. I know it will. This is now the main argument for everything – we are NATO allies and I understand that too. If there was a minister here, I would congratulate him or congratulate the Army for having won the Center of Excellence for Mountain Fighting in Poland. It's a military station near Bohinjska Bela. This center is supposed to be in the Poles now. This is a great success, here I see the role of the army, because it is a professional matter because it is adapted to the Slovenian situation, because Slovenian miners and mountaineers are extremely good. I think this is an important move by NATO and, above all, by the quality Slovenian Army. However, I know that the army is not the only one where it can be saved; that there is also a number of areas where it could be less expensive to save. Here I know that, for example, the Ministry of Education has put itself in the position, but I also think that none of the regular employees will lose their jobs. That says there won't be forgiveness there. This is some measure which is also socially oriented; from Desusa's point of view, it is a very important item. But even in health care, which I mentioned earlier as a problem when we read the Court of Auditors or the Court of Auditors reports, we see that there is less to be saved, so to speak. Public contracts, we haven't implemented them yet. Allowances that go into infinity, we know that, we knew before, but now we even have some data. Even in the congregations, because some of you talk a lot about your congregation because of the electoral base, but I have to say, if you are reading the reports of the Court of Auditors, then some things in the congregations are also at the border, not to say beyond the limits of legality, not to say legitimacy. In short, it is possible, I could list and tell you where this country could be cheaper. I'm not going far now, but I'm staying home, so I'm in the National Assembly, but I have to say. A few years ago, the Service of the National Assembly invented that the State Council must have its own computer network so that, for safety reasons, important documents of the National Assembly should not be read by state councillors. And then the State Council had to organize its computer network in the same house – and, of course, it costs. At that time, the National Assembly confirmed that budget would not be mistaken. I mean, there are a lot of things that can be done differently, do better, and do cheaper things. Let me get this over with. Once again, however, this budget is more anti-crisis-oriented than developmental, but still. However, I have a feeling that this budget is much more important in investing in the walls, in some material; significantly less, it seems to me, it is designed for people. At this point, I also have some comments on him, regardless, of course, I am in the coalition and we will finally vote as we agree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u49	Thank you. The word is Mr. Franz Ly, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u50	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Honorable Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Yeah, it's been said a lot, the budget is that way, it's different, something was positive also, but I don't think it's enough. Why? Because I don't know if it's ever been dealt with in this national council with a budget that would be ideal. This isn't ideal either, far from it. In order to be ideal, this bread would have to be inadequately large to meet all these needs that have been brought out. But we must be aware that for a large loaf of bread, we should have done many things earlier so that we can prepare and bake such as we have our present needs. However, I would like to highlight this budget in some way from this point of view, that the government has made a lot of efforts despite all these criticisms, because, according to my information, it has had to implement 57 measures, horizontal and sectoral, in addition to many other coordinations, so that it can bring here and put what it is on the table. However, in addition to this proposal, I would say that, in any event, the balance of the budget follows the public financial objectives and we are sending a good, positive message to our partners, to the financial markets and to the market of the European Union as a whole, on which we are extremely dependent. It certainly has positive effects on economic growth as well. We have found that investment funds are increasing on average by 30%, which will also normally be positive for economic growth. The question is whether this budget is realistic, sustainable. I will say so – it is as sustainable as economic growth will be. If economic growth is not sustained, this budget will quickly fall to this stage, so that it needs to be changed again, that is clear. I would also like to say that we have what we have. And in order to be more satisfied with this budgetary issue in the future, it is certainly necessary to end this story in some way today and tomorrow and give the Government the opportunity to focus on those activities and tasks that will lead to the next consideration of the new budget period being a little easier or a little more favourable. I myself will then be more satisfied than today, because I expect my wishes to come true, so that I can be part of this story and also part of one that can support the programme budget, which will be more inopportunely transparent to all consumers, up to all generations. I think that's our goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues and my colleagues, say good-bye again! The budget or the balance of the budget is ahead of us, as it is. My modest assessment is that it's not ideal, it's probably far from ideal. How ideal it would be if it was under pressure the limits of the 3% deficit. I believe and I wish he was optimal in given circumstances, in space and time. The vast majority of people are particularly sensitive to those social categories that are very vulnerable and needing budgetary resources in the form of a wide variety of transfers. I believe, after the discussions on the committees, that the social situation of those most vulnerable target groups will not be reduced at the expense of the austerity measures in the preparation of the balance. They have been taken into account, including last year's implementation, forecasting in the current year and assessment of all other macroeconomic dimensions. However, it is also a fact that the rights under the law and the Constitution are determined not to be played. But let me also touch my pension a little. I would be very happy if there was a finance minister here who is obviously very disturbed by the valorisation of these pensions. At the moment, I do not see him, nor the secretary of state; I see only one representative of the Ministry of Finance, who is the guardian of this ministry. It saddens me that we have not adopted on the Committee on Finance an amendment proposed by, among other things, the parliamentary group of our coalition partners – the Social Democrats, for which I sincerely thank them. We are very sorry that we did not bring this amendment through the committee, but we have found a solution. In this place today, and in this house I want clear and uniform assurances either to the President of the Government, I would like to see this from him, or to the Minister of Finance. Yes, now listen well – if the data on gross social product growth for last year are higher than 2.5%, this year, this year, according to a well-known formula, the realisation of the payment itself, that is to say the work that is being valorised, will be carried out in January 2016. If we can get this clearly and unequivocally, I apologize, but what the President of the Government said, otherwise, he also touched on valorisation and, among other things, said: "This also creates the conditions that for the next year after a long period of time a certain coordination of pensions and social transfers can be envisaged." That's not it! I sincerely want to do so, and we, too, in Desus, sincerely want economic growth to be over 2.5% this year, and it would also be valorisation in the following year and so on. But still, let's take it one step at a time. We are aware of the difficult financial situation, we are prepared for certain compromises; not compromises at all costs and not compromises at the expense of the most vulnerable target groups, including pensioners. Here we need to understand each other, and since there was such an agreement between coalition partners, I see no problem here not to do so. As a result, there will also be 10 votes in favour of Mr Desus's budget balance. Otherwise, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr. Matjaž Hanžek has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u54	Thank you very much. I said a few months ago in this National Assembly: Human rights cannot wait for growth, for 2.5% growth in gross domestic product. The Council of Europe adopted a resolution 14 days ago, which reads as follows: budget cuts must not be blind to human rights and discrimination or inequality, and it has warned the countries that they must not bear the burden of the crisis to the most vulnerable groups; and those crises which have not already started. But now we're there. 2.5% of economic growth is, the government doesn't stick to what it promised the pensioners. The same was true of social aid and everything else at 2.5% growth. We've come to this point and we're stuck again in a wasteland that would call the word "austerity" more precisely; saving I understand something other than that. Several times it has been said that we can only use what we create. Fine, yes. That's true. But tell those who have taken 70 billion in the last 20 years from Slovenia to the tax havens to return this money, not people who receive 270 euros a month after calculations, two thirds of what was the calculation of the lowest cost of living in 2009 and the rest. There is a constant talk of how you watch out for those who already have crazy big incomes, which you get 200 or 300 euros, but now you are so greedy that you want to get 5 more euros. It's scary to listen to it all the time. Let us think for a moment about what this means — we can only use what we create. And this continues to be explained to people who are unemployed at work, who do not receive half a year’s wages or even more who are unable to study and so on. It's a tiny thing to throw on. Or, wonderfully, if we do this so that we can squeeze those who don't, we will show the financial markets how good we are. Excuse me, let's show people once that this authority can do something. Not only show the financial markets and say that 3% is the limit, but healthy; even though France says that we will not, it gets worse; we will do so because we have to pay the French back and so on. And these are the stories that keep repeating themselves in this national council, and I'm a little scared of it. However, to be a little more specific, I regret to repeat some of what has been said ten times before, but no one will be able to do so. It goes on, the amendments will fall, though here, in the National Assembly some things are said five times, ten times; but I will tell everyone for the eleventh time, sixth or fifteenth time. In the United Left, we absolutely do not agree that the Ministry of Labour, the family and so on lost 130 million. Once again, calculations are based on ex-consumption and everything else. We are constantly talking about restructuring the Slovenian economy. Let's also talk about restructuring Slovenian poverty, and let's say 130 million is less, let's change and increase those revenues that we said a few years ago we'll freeze them and increase them when the economic growth is 2.5 percent. We constantly want to meet the demands of some imaginary financial markets and we do not keep the promises of our citizens. This 2.5% has long been made a promise that has been repeated every year. Now that we've reached her, we haven't. But three percent that someone once told someone, and they're gonna be for everyone, cost as much as they want, and we're gonna have to cut. I think from this money, 130 million, we could raise social aid. By the time they were calculated six years ago, the guarantees were absolutely too small. And now six years — from now?Oh, my God! Equally, unemployment benefits are reduced by 93 million. It may be true that there will be fewer unemployed, but we will have more long-term, part-time social assistance. In the United Left, we mentioned earlier other things that should be further financed — family benefits, scholarships. And if there is less demand, scholarships can be higher, different censorship, more children, incentives and so on if we speak. I agree, one of my colleagues said that we invest mainly in walls in investments. True, in the walls on the one hand, on the other hand, we are constantly talking about macro-economics, but I hardly hear anything about micro-humans, especially on the government side. Let him wait for the macro-economics to say that he has enough money now, and now we can focus on the man as well. And given my long-term planning work, believe me, I don't believe that no matter what gross domestic product will be, there will always be savings. If I remind you of the different movements in our governments when there was great economic growth, they said, we must now lower social aid and give more to the rich that they will be new jobs. We do not need social assistance, however, because economic growth will eliminate everything. The crisis also came because we had to save because there was no money to save. Now economic growth has started again, but we need to be saved because we are used to saving; or something. I'm a little surprised at all these rallies and excuses why we have to keep saving. I'd end up here and say Robin Hood's ideology has apparently changed the ideology of Super Hick. The one who ever read Alan Ford will know; but if not, it's a wonderful literature that everyone has to read. Instead of taking the rich – give it to the poor, Superhik has introduced a new philosophy, the poor are much more, you can get more and give it to the rich. That's what we do now. If I finish. I am sure that if we also take into account the multitude of economic analyses, this saving of austerity is not an economic necessity, but an ideology. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u55	Thank you. The word has magic. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. It's a nice greeting for everyone! The adoption of the budget balance as well as the budget itself is always very difficult, even in times of crisis. Everybody wants everything, but there's no money. And then we're in the process of making concessions and making deals. I am pleased that there is an increased amount on the investment item, because we really need to start an economy and investment so that people will have a job to reduce unemployment. But I'm not happy that the line is raised by 6 million. In these times, when we are all fastening the belt, it is really kind of surprising that it is increasing there for some needs that may not really be needed. However, I must admit that tomorrow, when we vote on this rebalancing and on the ZIPRO, I will have a very big problem how to vote. I did not get the confirmation I wanted to hear in Mr Marble's presentation and Prime Minister Cerar's presentation – the coordination of pensions. Here I have a coalition agreement, Chapter 4, subsection 4.19, which stipulates that in the case of more than 2,5 per cent of economic growth in the previous year, pensions are harmonised in accordance with Article 106 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. It also says that the budget will provide additional funding for the annual pension allowance – 40 million. We are very flexible in Desus, and we have halved this 40 million into 19 million to coordinate the annual allowance. The reconciliation of pensions has not taken place since 2010, and pensions are falling in real terms or have fallen from 70.72% to 58% of wages. This is a sharp decline and here I expect, before my vote, a firm guarantee, not only as Prime Minister Cerar said it would involve coordination. We are prepared to allow this coordination to be transferred to the 2016 budget, immediately in the beginning, in January. And that he just predicts coordination, that's not enough for me. It is no good for me that this assumption has not been joined by Minister Marble, because he has scissors and canvas in his hands in large part in the formulation of the budget. Two days ago, I was late at night, around midnight watching the Committee on Finance – the adoption of the budget rebalancing. When he came to the committee, Minister Maramor expressed great surprise at our amendment when he requested the coordination of pensions. Somehow I looked at it from the couch in a very strange way; since we have always warned for several months now that we are also expecting coordination of pensions in the case of 2.5% growth in the economy. We also announced this at the coalition summit, and he expressed amazement. I really didn't get along here; well, Dementia, we're getting old. Dementa is really a big problem in Slovenia, but I don't know that such amazement is expressed, it really wasn't me. And given that we recapitalise banks, that the responsibility of members of supervisory boards, directors of administrations in state-owned enterprises is not guaranteed, that businesses are failing to recapitalise, that is how long I will not be satisfied with the non-coordination of pensions. We throw millions there without anyone asking us anything. But the government has decided. When I listened to the debate at home, late, around midnight, one of the Members said that the pension would not depend on how many years and how much money he would pay. I might even agree with that because the pension fund is empty. It is empty because the pension fund was used to build motorways and some highly overpaid infrastructure. Just remember Vegrad, SCT and the others, and the ones responsible have a weekend in prison. I do not like this at all, and I expect from the judiciary that the appropriate amount of incursion, according to the company, is appropriate. I don't like these open-ended detention wards. However, I would touch Mr Shirtzl, who had very much to say about Desus' amendment to the ZIPRS. Look, we were kind of expecting it, but here, too, the opposition squeezed their tails between their legs. I think only the United Left has supported our amendment, the rest of the opposition has been against, and you care so much about the pensioners and the lowest pension or poverty threshold. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. Nice hello to you all! Today we are adopting a budget or a rebalancing that I do not envy to any government or to this government. I admit that if the previous government, in which I was in the coalition I was in this year, would probably have a similar problem – the problem of how to make a rebalancing 2015, to be enjoyable and look as decent as it is; for it certainly does not look, in no way. But what's more important is, and I liked that colleague Ludmila Novak mentioned a comparison with a short blanket. No matter how long you wear a blanket, you always make it too short in the end. If you have too much money, you spend it more, and in the end, there's always something short. But it is right to say what are the transfers or how someone imagines the budget. This budget, or rebalancing, a proposal that has been prepared, has only one serious flaw in my mind. More revenue is planned, for more than 200 million, but even less money will be available than before. These two don't seem to work together. Everything's just screaming and crying everywhere. I also agree with a colleague who says that we will finally have to make priorities. In this country we have no courage to say some projects – stop. And we say, there will be no more of them, but somehow artificially from year to year, this applies to all governments, we prolong because we fear the pressures of those third-party pressure. I am waiting for the president of the ministerial assembly, who will be the first to make a hero, and he will tell some of the projects – it is over, there will be no projects in my government. And I'm sure there would be a little bit of money for what we have today. And the bigger the public debt, the sooner it'll have to happen. Now what's important in this rebalancing. I must say that I have listened very carefully to the esteemed Madam Secretary of State, who is on all budgets, running from her everywhere just to get such a meeting through, with all due respect. I was disturbed by one thing in particular; and this is 11 environmental projects, not because I would say something wrong, far from it. Everything she said was fine. It is not particularly because the secretary of state has to speak one thing, but we know that someone else is responsible for these environmental projects; another minister. And last year, I was at a committee meeting last December, where we heard that the conclusions for these 11 environmental projects would be signed at the end of December. That's the key problem. Now we hear there will be no more of this, but there will be a month in June. You know, the first time you eat your own promise, no one believes it will be in June. And if it really will be June and if there will be these 24 famous millions that are reserved for that part that is supposed to be announced in this year's cycle, I wonder who is the one who will be the one who's going to be the one who's going to be the one who's going to be the one who's going to be the one who's going to be the one who's going to be the one who's going to be the one who's going to be the one who's going to be the one who's going to be the one who's going to be the one who's going to be the one who's going to be the one who's going to be the one who's going to be the inside, to say, yes, that's that's that's that's the one, that's that's going to be the one. Does this mean the forecast of a new rebalancing already in July? I don't know. I have this problem with these 11 environmental projects. Mayors, I think it's important to say out loud and very clearly what's really going to happen, because I think they've been dragged around for too long by the nose and there's going to be a gap here. The second thing that seems very important to me is in this budget especially because the government has decided to return the environment and space together under one ministry, that we must admit that no government has done much in space or in the environment so far. This is the sector that is most neglected, and nobody wants to talk about it. We speak only when we need to build or when we are running out of money or are chronically lacking when something needs to be built. I'm talking about roads, I'm talking about bridges, I'm talking about space, I'm talking about the environment; in short, we're a country that's protected across the board. I remember Kopač's statement years ago when he said he didn't know what was more monumentally protected in Lipica when the grass was cut or when the grass was growing. We've come so far with this problem. And what's the problem now? The problem is that we heard on the committee yesterday about the problem of Lipice, the Minister of Agriculture, who took a breath when he got rid of the troublesome work, but nothing happened. It happened that people went under another minister, but I don't know if he followed the money; especially when we're talking about infrastructure when we're talking about environment and space together, so you won't be aware of the number when you watch how much money actually went there. And I feel sorry for the minister, because at the end of the year, she'll be very disappointed when she sees what she's going to face. And it is more than clear in this budget that nothing will happen. And here's one of those steps I was talking about at the beginning. Where are these advantages? Where it's going to have to be cut and one thing to say - no, it's over, we're not going to do it anymore; and another thing to say - here's the priority and we're going to give maximum money here. What is still important to me is that more or less has proved in this budget balance that we will have a serious health problem. A serious health problem. Now I see an amendment around the Ptuj Emergency Centre, I don't think even 3 million is necessary, I think there's enough million and a half to get to this emergency centre. But it's just one phase, a little piece inside the health issue. The problem is not to admit that the budget will have to be very clear – if I say again what we like to hear or say we understand – to recapitalise new finances within the budget; and this for the health field. It won't be different, because all these philosophies and fairy tales, how much money is stolen, how much reserves, how much to refer to the Court of Auditors, to vacations, please, that's too little. For the past 10 years in the field of health, we have not seen very clearly how much money needs to be made new if we are to maintain such public health. Savings — one of my predecessors said there was still a lot of reserves. Yeah, yeah, only these reserves have to be made with reorganisation, with reform. But the money won't come with it. And that's five, ten years from now, no sooner. And that's why I think it's imperative that these movements actually take place here. So much for once, but more for the amendments themselves, where there are very concrete proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u59	Thank you. The word has Mrs. Jelka Godec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Good-bye! In view of what the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister have said and what we have heard on the committees, when we have discussed the balance, and also on official statistics, it seems to me today that we are living in two worlds or at least parallel worlds. The Prime Minister said clearly and loudly with great satisfaction that we are finally recording economic growth, that we are finally recording the decline in unemployment; but when we look at statistics, we see that unemployment has increased from November to December 2013 by 3.5%, that it has increased by an additional 3% in January, and that we now have 124 000 and a few more unemployed. The increase from December to January by 4 000 400 unemployed and most in the eastern region, mostly in Pomurje. What is more worrying, however, is that the number of active persons decreased by 6,000,800 per month. And so happy to say that we are recording a reduction in unemployment, even if it is a seasonal variation, I think it is almost impossible to say that in the current situation. In all the discussions by the government, it is clear that the financial minister is the main one in all, which is very nice and right, but it could be better that the financial and economic ministers are the main players in the creation of the balance and then the budgets. Then perhaps there would be no such problems as other ministers in the field of education, social, agriculture and so on; even if the words of the Minister of Economic Affairs were valid in our country. Thus, for example, ministers in the Education Committee are literally asking for amendments and asking for the support of the members of the Education Committee to provide them with some additional resources to cover what they want to cover. We know we're talking about teaching aid, and a little bit later. Why he is not the head of the economic minister is a question; but the minus that is reflected in the economic ministry is a reason enough to doubt that, therefore, he does not have a lot of words. He had a few words in raising the budget line in the area of tourism development by 2 million 800, which is understandable, as Mr Restoršek also comes from this area and has chosen at least a few increases here. Otherwise, that we are reducing our funds to local self-government, that is, to the municipalities, it has already been said that each euro received by the congregation is much better converted than the state. The same is true if we go lower — each euro received by the local community is turned much better or beautified than the congregation itself. And when we cut funding to municipalities, we also cut indirect funding to primary schools. Now the primary schools are being hit on two sides. First, by the Ministry of Education, which no longer intends to finance teaching aid, schools in nature and so on; secondly, the primary schools are already receiving letters, and the municipalities' conclusions that due to reduced principality they will no longer finance certain programmes will no longer fund the school in nature. By saving or by reducing the balance of the budget, we are causing damage on two sides. At the same time, we say that the balance is developmental. I think I've gotten used to the fact that when I was a municipal councilwoman, when there's a reduction in the economy, infrastructure and so on, then we're talking about developmental rebalancing. I don't know what we call those rebalans where you see a positive picture. The Minister of Infrastructure is also asking for amendments. It says that the money is not that there is no strategy, that there is no project work, but that the money allocated to the infrastructure will only be settled or implemented by those projects currently in the process, that is, road reconstruction. On the other hand, the questionable issue is what is very questionable and that we should simply make amendments if we are to re-enact a road of national importance. As far as education is concerned, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Labour, where funds are also falling, would say this. Even at that time, before the rebalancing, we were on the Committee on Education or Education, and then on the Committee on Labour and again on the Education Committee, we discussed various issues, from abolishing teaching aid, to young people's issues, to the level of poverty. All committees have adopted decisions made by the coalition to provide funding for learning aid and for all the austerity measures to be taken by the Ministry of Education to allocate additional funds for youth, to address housing policy and to take into account the UNICEF recommendations and so on in terms of the degree of poverty and policy integration or improved policies in this area. All these conclusions were sand in the eyes. However, when the amendment had to be specifically supported in order to provide additional funding for the implementation of primary school programmes, the coalition strongly rejected the amendment of the Education Committee on the ground that it was not in line with the government and that it was not balanced. Arguments, of course, that don't stand. Why do they then adopt and propose conclusions to impose on the government and the ministry to seek funds? However, because she did not seek them, the Committee proposed that these funds be made available by means of an amendment. On the Committee on Labour and Education, two committees also discussed the impact of the recession on the social situation in Slovenia 2013-2014. According to Unicef, Slovenia ranks 39th in 41st in terms of learning and child development options. So very low, but despite all these warnings that the government should only place young people and children at the centre of policy implementation, even recommendations have been made on what to do in this area, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport is reducing funding in the field of assistance to schoolchildren. At the same time, as we have already seen today, resources in the Ministry of Labour are declining – for social security and family benefits. It was interesting that we were told on the Committee on Education that schooling aid was declining by 2 million because the previous government had misplanned that it had so poorly planned food or height that it was necessary to feed students, students, and students that it was now such a difference — for 2 million. Nevertheless, the Ministry may only have the opportunity to amend the criteria for subsidised food in order to adapt or reduce the criteria; for if we know that there are so many children living below the poverty threshold to allow them additional food subsidies. Well, that's why they didn't land. At the same time, there is nowhere in the balance sheet to see when and how a dual system or financial means for a dual system will be introduced. I must say that I will not support this rebalancing for a number of reasons; also because I do not think it is very developmental, because it does not take into account some of the recommendations that we have received from governmental and non-governmental organisations, because in fact it denies everything that the coalition has adopted on the committees and because there are also no concrete measures to raise the economy, so that we can also provide funding for research activities. For all those who may believe in horoscopes, the year of the goat begins today. I believe that this year will certainly be a good year for this government, because it says that finally this year, after the Chinese horoscope, the year of the goat, will finally see the light at the end of the tunnel; and that from this long-lasting recession, also those countries that are in deep economic crisis will develop. Maybe from last year, when we were on a horse, after the Chinese horoscope, we would come to the goat this year; and in a positive sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u61	Thank you. Mr Matjaž German has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u62	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Despite the fall in GDP, intervention laws and austerity measures, Slovenia has been able to protect the most vulnerable groups in spite of the sharp increase in the targeting of transfers and the abandonment of the universal approach, as the social protection system worked well enough in times of crisis. This read statement will most likely seem highly controversial, especially when we look at the indicators. In 2013, 14.5% of the population was below the poverty line, which means 290,000 people. With emphasis on not counting social transfers in income, this level of risk of poverty would be significantly higher, we are talking about 25%; so I first read the positive part, then the negative part, that we somehow create an image of where we are. At the time of the adoption of the budget in Slovenia, of all our history, we have never been satisfied and united in this, nor in 2007, when we recorded the highest growth in economic growth; what about this year, when we are in some way coming or at least in some way giving the impression that we are coming out of the crisis. There is a lot of talk in today's debate about the most vulnerable groups, we talk a lot about pensioners because it's right. Allow me, as the youngest Member of the Social Democrats, to touch another very vulnerable group, for which we have not found answers, and we will have to be very alert and more committed in the future. I am primarily talking about those most affected by the crisis. I'm talking about young families, I'm talking about kids, I'm talking about single parents. Let me just tell you that from 2008 to 2012, this vulnerable group is the one that is the most vulnerable to the threshold of survival. According to some data, we had around 7,000 children in this category during this period are said to be below the poverty threshold. I would like to know in the future not only as a government, as a coalition, but also as a policy to focus on this very important element of our society. Several times today, it has been said that as a coalition, we are not united. I would like to see that we are not united at the time of the debate in the future, because I welcome diversity, and so it is. Here I address my coalition colleagues, because none of us demands that we be equal. We are required to be united when necessary. Everything is allowed in this debate. Tomorrow, when we vote, it is important that we all vote in the same way and that we stand behind it. I fully understand that none of us are satisfied with what we have on the table, and the opposition is constantly warning us about it; but it is perfectly normal in the circumstances in which we have ourselves or some external influence. I would also point out the intention of the Social Democrats, which is more in the stage of desire and finding solutions so that they can think in the future in the direction of debt write-off to the weakest. I hope that one day we will also find consensus and support efforts to help the weak. As far as dialogue with the coalition is concerned, colleague Hainz, a colleague from Desus, a colleague from the coalition, would complement in one part when he touched on the budget of the Ministry of Defence. In the last period of five years, this is evident, the budget allocated to the defence is actually falling. This time it's higher, but it's going to be attributed to three important elements. This is a transfer of funding for veteran organisations from the Ministry of Labour to the Ministry of Defence. This is the first and most important. The other two are very important to our people. This is about the funds coming from the European Fund or from the European Union Solidarity Fund as compensation for the damage caused in last year's capture, and I am talking about greed. And the second part, which is equally important, is European funds coming from the crisis management project. The defence budget has increased from these addresses, which is very good. The subject has also been mentioned, and here I have to respond to the demand for drone purchases, these are drones. This is a commitment that we once gave to Nate, which is not mentioned in the 2015 budget. Here we need to be precise so that we do not mislead the public as long as it is in the coming years, but it is a matter for all of us. In the present, which we are here to talk about today, this part is not taken. We also touched on the rationalisation of the rolling stock. Personally, as far as I am aware of the fact, I regret that this has not happened before. Why? Since of these 500, or approximately 500, 600, 400 vehicles, I am talking about an average of 10 years, about 250,000 miles [250,000 km]. It is a process of rationalisation when most of it will be sold together, as has been said, with other real estates and movables to purchase a new one. This isn't about giving the defense something that could be given to social, education, young, old, whoever. This is part of an integrated budget dedicated to the Ministry of Defence. And within that, the Department of Defense acts as a smart master. I would like, and I believe, that the debate will be a long one, that we together will find some consensus on this budget; and I have no doubt that this will be the case. But I allow all the different interpretations, which I find perfectly legitimate, especially by the opposition. As has already been said, I do not expect us to be the same in the coalition; but I want us to be united. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u63	Thank you. Mr. Tomaž Gantar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The fact is that this rebalancing is geared towards public finances or to reducing the deficit below 3%. And the fact is that it also has certain consequences. In view of the warnings, is my question similar to that already raised today — have we really done enough at some point in time to include all the solutions in order to achieve this severe reduction of the deficit? I don't know if we've been good enough negotiators; the fact is that we're going to have a lot of problems. But let's not make this look like something that Desus wouldn't realize that we can't spend more in the long run than we create. This is clear to us, and that is understandable to us. On the other hand, the price of achieving a short-term deficit reduction is high. This is undoubtedly the subject of a number of warnings that arise. The price is paid by young people, the price is paid by pensioners, the price is paid by the public sector, everyone involved. And the fact is that Slovenia has been saving intensively for several years. This saving takes place in my opinion completely wrong; in a linear way, reduction, so-called haircuts, as some like to say, which has led us to be practically on the right path to collapse of public systems – not just health systems, but others. And that's practically no one's happy about it. The OECD data on the funds allocated to these systems, compared to GDP, also speak in favour of a relatively large allocation. In the end, however, the effect is relatively poor; it shows that changes are needed, in a slightly different way than we do. I believe that this rebalancing, as well as what is proposed, will survive. It may be necessary here and there to make a correction that turns out to have been taken more than a system can do, but that'll work. I am more concerned that all of this is based on some assumptions that we will be doing better from now on; better and more economic growth; and that we have very few tangible bases that we can expect. The economies we work with, for example, Germany, are about to cool down. We know that the crisis of Russia, Ukraine, is still ongoing and very quickly can also disrupt our economic performance. On the other hand, we have done virtually nothing yet to improve the business environment, so that our economy can breathe better and easier. There was practically nothing done. We've taken care of banks that don't lend badly to companies that don't meet the credit conditions. Foreign investors are avoiding us in a broad circle because we are unfriendly because we still have an excessive bureaucratic system because the country is legal for one little more, for the other little less, because corruption is still very much present and other measures have not been taken. Measures that would increase economic growth in order to be able to say that we have carried them out and increased employment are practically not. On the other hand, there are no reforms, not reforms because Brussels requires us to do so, but simply because it has proved to be a linear cutting of public systems that destroys; but also changes need to be introduced. In this part, I am particularly skeptical of what the government is doing. We're talking about strategies. Strategies are, of course, nice if you have them. It would be very nice to have them when you take power and run the country. Otherwise, strategies such as these do not answer any important question, they do not solve any problem. In the end, decisions must probably be taken and some political responsibility must be taken. Planting flowers in this context is not valid. Once again, if I can understand this tendency to reduce the deficit on the one hand, on the other hand, it is difficult to understand that not all of these measures, which would lead to this counterweight on the other hand, to improving the economy and to the changes in the public sector that we simply need. I believe that this is the only path to employment, to real economic growth, and at that time, I am also convinced that there will be no more problems than we, in ignorance, have triggered with the proposal to harmonise pensions. Please – 30, 35 million to coordinate with economic growth, for coordination, which has been agreed, which has been signed and which is now very problematic. Even further, I did not expect incorrect responses or misinterpretations, even by the Finance Minister, Mr Marble. I do not think that this is the way and the way to good cooperation, to carry out the more demanding projects that are ahead of us. Maybe for the end. American economist and Nobel laureate Joseph Stiglitz wrote in his book The Price of Inequality that an economic and political system that does not benefit most citizens, but only a handful, simply cannot survive. And I believe he wasn't wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u65	Thank you. The word has Mrs. Vojka Shergan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister, distinguished representatives of ministries, colleagues and colleagues! The budget rebalancing was necessary. We all agree with that. Although there are many dilemmas and concerns about whether such a budget is right, it shows that three objectives are being achieved, such as a 100 % drawdown of cohesion funds for the period 2007-2013, a deficit of the state sector will fall below 3 % of GDP, maximally, of course within the scope of options, it is focused on investment and material costs. If we did not take action, there would be a 5% deficit in spontaneous budget planning. But we all know that it would be bad for Slovenia. As a result, it is bad for every inhabitant of this beloved Slovenia, who in our own way, yet we want good. In the event of a larger deficit, we could not draw on EU funds, the bond price would increase, interest would be high, there would be no credit, this over-performing GDP would have a major impact on debt refinancing, would be negative economic growth. And I must say that I don't understand why some people really insist and draw each other to their end when you table amendments; and you demand everyone in the area closest to them more resources. On the other hand, you do not have proposals or are unrealistic, as there are legal obligations to be implemented. So where to take it, for everyone thinks only of the narrow individual interests of certain groups. If the amount of money is limited, then you can redistribute the funds by taking it and giving it to others. In individual ministries, ministers themselves had the opportunity to redistribute and reduce their own operating costs in areas where they considered it necessary. Of course, each minister had his own view of how the funds would be allocated, which is normal and logical. In the SMC Group, we support the adoption of the budget rebalancing because we believe that it is oriented by following the principles of a sustainable and supportive social state, economic growth and giving a special place to the investment potential, which will also encourage the construction sector, as the funds will be used to renovate buildings. And this, like the construction sector, which was also strong in the past, will somehow recover in this segment. Compared to last year's spending, however, much more resources are devoted to health care, environmental protection, infrastructure, local self-government and other investment programmes. In short, first we think about the good of the countries as a whole, then we do good for all of Slovenia. In the SMC Group, we understand that the 2015 budget rebalancing is essential, although an unpopular act that we must reconfirm responsibly if we are to remedy the consequences, even a number of failed past practices in the functioning of the State and in the management of public finances. And we believe that we have landed at the bottom, from which we must also somehow decline this year to make the budget better in 2016. I believe that this will happen if we confirm this year's budget because it is also that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u67	Thank you. The word has Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u68	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Well, I'd be happy to say hello to the ministerial assembly in the beginning, too, but unfortunately that's not in the hall. So much for the relationship on such important matter that we accept today – the budget rebalancing. Unfortunately, the Secretary of State will have to listen to this and in a way, I hope you will be successful in moving forward. Public financial responsibility is certainly the greatest responsibility of the coalition. You are the one who will finally confirm this; but precisely because this is the greatest responsibility right on you, it would be good to listen to all the arguments and also the discussions that talk about the shortcomings of this balance. I'm sorry. I'm just a little concerned that even coalition things aren't coordinated. If we listen to a pingpong today between the ministry or ministers and individual parliamentary groups that form this coalition, one really wonders how this matter came about. Many parental committees have repeatedly said that the budget is unrealistic. In view of the experience of drawing on the European funds we have, we really need to ask ourselves whether this item is indeed true or whether we can rely on it. Let me remind you of only 11 environmental projects and problems of municipalities created by the congestion and where the municipalities have already prepared everything necessary for implementation. We do not yet have fiscal law, and when I hear that it is necessary to stand together and not to defend some narrowly interested groups, I seriously ask myself, this was said by my colleague earlier, whether there is a greater interest in the functioning of the police. Do you think that's a narrow business? Do you think there are more resources for a smooth education system of narrow interest? Do you think environmental projects, infrastructure of narrow interest? If that's the case, then we can't really come together. I am confident, in view of all the debates and also of what this balance brings, that after the adoption of this balance, we will deal even more intensively with the congested economic or business environment, with many unemployed, refugees, especially young people, abroad, because at home they will not have a chance of unsustainable social distress. As I have already said on one parental committee, I think there is a major problem with this budget of priority. The rebalancing is in a way very consistent with the system — the minister who was louder and hit more on the table, he got more. And if we look on the other side, do you even know how much money is involved in different agencies, offices, board funds and institutions? We, the distinguished ministerial assembly, can answer remotely what they are actually doing and how many they are. Do you know there are thousands of employees here?Oh, my God! I ask you what you think citizens would rather have a safe country or a number of agencies? By the way, according to some data, there are only about 200 inter-resor committees and groups — 200. If they only use it for pencils, paper and the space they use, you know where we are. And what do citizens get for it? Five thousand euros will be spent on this budget for every citizen, five thousand euros, respected. And what will the citizens get for this? Less resources for police operations. You were talking about priorities here again. Let me just give you the opinion of the Home Affairs Committee. The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Government opposes measures that further undermine the rights of employees and make the police more effective. This is one of the conclusions adopted by the Committee at one of the meetings back. And what are we dealing with today? Again with a catastrophic situation, then the Secretary of State said that by the middle of the year, and then virtually no more funds. On the other hand, we have heard the Minister of Public Administration upgrading e-government infrastructure in this area in terms of new programming equipment. He was talking about the so-called cloud, and I'm seriously wondering which cloud he was talking about. Whether it's informational or maybe it's when the Minister of Justice said they practically don't have computers and they'll get them from the courts. This cloud is probably going to come from smoke because it's going to take the hell out of it. These are priorities, and it is true that, somehow, I do not want to be long, but I will also discuss with individual amendments. Let me conclude only with some of the thoughts of the individual citizens who turned to me when we announced the debate on the balance. They say that I should remind you of your many words of ethics and morality and that today it appears again that you have no intention of doing so. 'Cause if we did, we wouldn't be running low on basic activities. Citizens say they are afraid and, among other things, there is uncertainty in the country. Let him find the stolen money in the banks and come back. They also say that if the government intends to save on security, then this government does not care about citizens. And let me finish with just one of the ones who said, I was appalled, but there's a lot of truth in that. The government in the police field is continuing its policy of uprising. This time she throws granite points at them herself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u69	Thank you. The word has Mrs. Urska Ban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Despite much already said today on the subject of the 2015 budget rebalancing, I would also like to make some of my views or observations myself. It seems important to me, despite all the criticisms already made today, to point out that this budget ensures that all the legal obligations we owe to citizens, institutions and all other users of public funds are covered. Secondly, 100 per cent of EU funding is provided. As I listen to this debate today, it seems to me that in the situation we are in, we should have provided everything in the past, whether it was not money, or whether it was neglected. What has not been done in recent years should be in the 2015 budget or budget balance today. And let me say here, today we are not talking about the new budget for 2015, but just about the correction of the budget, which was adopted in 2013. However, both of the objectives I said earlier, covering all the legal obligations and also 100 per cent of European funds are important and will be achieved, despite the fact that the integral resources of the budget are falling by EUR 50 million; and despite the fact that we had to increase spending on some of the integral items – to increase interest payments and to pay additional pension funds. However, this means that the budget on the integrated items is sufficiently cost-effective to follow the objective of a deficit in the sector of a state not exceeding 3%, or precisely 2.89%. On the other hand, investment funds are increasing which will have a multiplier impact on future economic growth. It follows that the fact that an effort has been made on the expenditure side to reduce the integral resources in the budget, which is the result of a series of measures that have likely affected all budgetary users. This is why we are talking today about the need for ministries or departments to prepare their financial plans in line with the cut-off or the available volume of budgetary resources. It is smaller than envisaged by the 2015 rebalancing, which means that there was a need to find reserves within the individual resorts, perhaps to cancel the implementation of a programme, a project; however, this assessment was left to the expert evaluation of individual ministries. Several times today have been exposed to the fact that these items do not have sufficient resources planned and that some will be run out in the first half of the year. The government's response was that this is not true and once again, I stress that all legal obligations are covered. Nevertheless, we need to know that today we are talking about the budget as an act which is a plan and a framework for the implementation of programmes within budgetary users. We know what the basic tasks of the budget are. Firstly, to implement the budget within the framework and for the purposes for which it was adopted. Secondly, that budgetary resources and the implementation of the budget are adapted to changing or fiscal circumstances or to anything else; timely action and implementation in the budget of the social and economic objectives set. In line with this second, the second task of the budget, if during the course of the year, the implementation of the budget of the individual item will increase faster than envisaged by this rebalancing, or if there will be insufficient resources on the specified item, the government shall have, in accordance with the basic task of preparing the budget, in accordance with the Public Finance Act and in accordance with the ZIPRS, a legal basis for redistributing or deploying certain funds to those items where the use will be faster. Because, as we are now merely assessing that some funds will be running out, it is likely that all budget lines will not be fully realized for various reasons. The reallocation of funds is an option and is always used during the implementation of the budget, otherwise the budget cannot be implemented. And it is never possible to draw up a budget that would also actually reflect the actual realization that the budget would be equal to the realization. As I said before, the planned increase, we are talking about higher expenditure than was foreseen by the rebalancing or the previous year. The higher expenditure in the draft budget is not related, as I have already said, to integral consumption, but rather to expenditure on investment items. We know that much of the current European projects in Slovenia will fall from the previous European perspective in 2015. I believe that the Ministry of Finance's services here, at the time of the new draft budget, have accounted for the full amount of necessary bridging resources in relation to the projects being concluded, and our country will have to provide them in 2015 for the implementation of these projects and the closure of the financial perspective. It is important that the ongoing implementation of the financing of these cohesion projects required a certain reduction of government spending on other items, as I have already said, but that all social groups are properly addressed in the balance sheet in a comparable way when it comes to spending restrictions on public finances. And if we are tightening the belt in different areas, I think it is right to tighten it in all areas at least comparable. Similarly, when national consumption decreased in this integral work, it did not interfere with those categories of social transfers that people at the bottom of the social ladder receive. However, it should also be stressed that social transfers will certainly be reduced to some extent during the implementation of European projects, due to slightly higher employment in the sectors that will benefit from these investments. I hope, however, that the government, despite the reduction of its integral resources, will maintain the appropriate level of its services, the quality of its services currently offered, as this would also increase the effectiveness of the service offered to citizens in the long term, which would certainly be a step towards a cheaper country in the future. For the end of the gap for a little while. I agree with the arguments that the budget rebalancing is very tight, since these 2.9 and precisely 2.89% of the deficit is just below the ceiling of the debt, which is still in line with the commitments to the European Commission's macro-economic imbalance programme, in which Slovenia is. At the same time, it is worth noting that Slovenia is a party to an international treaty on strengthening budgetary discipline, which places the ceiling on the State budget's debt to 0.5% of gross domestic product, and that excessive State indebtedness is also limited by fiscal rule. The threshold of 0.5% of GDP is also foreseen for the implementing law that we have in the process and treatment in the National Assembly. This law, which we are considering, is somehow made up of two parts. One relates to the systemic part that applies from the moment we arrive at the budget balance and also has transitional provisions or transitional solutions. In the last part of the law, which states that fiscal policy must be guided at the time of adjustment to this balanced budget in a way that brings us closer to the medium-term fiscal objective with dynamics or in the way set out in European rules or as we have undertaken a commitment under European rules. There is, in particular, a sustainable fiscal or fiscal policy. I believe and, according to our assessment of this proposal for a rebalancing, this obligation, which is based on fiscal rules and European commitments, also respects and respects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u71	Thank you. You want a replica? Here you go, Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u72	Thank you very much. I certainly appreciate the debate of the distinguished colleague of Urska Ban, however. In it, she mentioned that the ministries had ensured that the funds would be. I will now read you just one piece of what we heard on the Committee on Home Affairs. The representative of the Ministry pointed out that the situation was so difficult that the police would be very difficult to continue to exercise their legal powers and that there would be difficulties in carrying out all mandatory tasks during the year. If you were reading a magnetogram, it would sound different, because that's just an opinion when it comes to writing. But I can tell you right here it's not like that. And the money to carry out all the urgent matters under the law is not enough. That's not true what you said.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u73	Thank you. It wasn't a replica, it was your disagreement with what was said. Mr. Magg has the word. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u74	Madam President, thank you for your word. First, something in the context of this debate. The ruling coalition has been at the head of this country for almost six months. If this could still have been an argument in the debate on the 2014 budget rebalancing – if we have just come, we do not have all the information yet, the government has been using this argument – now after half a year of this argument can no longer be used. As a member of the opposition, it is extremely unacceptable to me that today's debate does not have a creator of this budget, i.e. the Minister of Finance. What impression does it give to citizens and citizens when it proposes a financial backbone for the country to live and survive in 2015?Oh, my God! In the debate on the 2014 balance, the coalition Members explained to us, the opposition – wait for the 2015 balance, because the 2015 balance will bring us all the Slovenians a breakthrough, a new paradigm, structural reforms and so on. And today we have a balance of what it is. We have a balance that doesn't even take into account the coalition contract. The coalition contract in the work that talks about public finances provides for a programme budget. This budget, I'm sorry, is not programmed. It provides for an income scale by which you will change the income classes by unloading the highly qualified workforce. That is not true, in 2014, you adopted the most appropriate income scale, as Minister Marble, who is not here today, additionally taxes – 50%. And then, you've committed yourself to a coalition contract so you won't raise any existing taxes. That's not true. In 2014, which is also the basis for the income side of this balance sheet, you raised taxes on insurance and banking services, left €85 instead of €100 to students and raised, as I mentioned, the rate of income. You are also in violation of the terms of the coalition contract. In fact, you wrote down: Social transfers remain at the same level as they are, until 2.5% of economic growth is achieved. 2.5% of economic growth will be achieved and you have not only left social transfers at the same level; although you should raise them under the coalition contract, you have even reduced them. Social security – 27 million less. Family benefits and parental benefits – 36 million euro less. You are in violation of the coalition contract while at the same time explaining how you will bring new oxygen to Slovenia. I listened with interest to the President of the Government when he presented the negotiations on this new budget balance when he spoke about the intensity of the preparation of the financial document. He listed some changes to the law, but you know, the devil is in detail, these changes that Mr Prime Minister praised are only those that raise taxes; not those that create a more competitive environment. He also said that you have successfully negotiated with the social partners and concluded a good agreement, but you deny this statement to the creators in the document itself. You wrote that the recovery was not such and that the reason for these increases is the lower effect of the agreed measures for 2015. The Prime Minister is bragging, and the Treasury admits that you had a bad negotiation. The Prime Minister also spoke of some decisive action, but let me talk about it a little later. You say the budget is highly investmentable, while at the same time you take 60 million money from the municipalities. You're saying you've aligned yourself with the congregations, the associations. I myself have spoken to dozens of mayors who do not agree with the agreement that they expect to have even less money, that investments will be even more expensive and that they no longer trust their housing companies or the leaders of these societies who have signed for this agreement, which goes solely on the burden of the congregations. You couldn't make a deal with Struggle, so you took the congregations. Very simple. The President of the Government also said very boldly that we had avoided this budget rebalancing by radical intervention. Your Honor, don't joke. Those of you who have heard the debate on the Committee on Finance are certain to know that this statement by the President of the Government is not true. The union representative said that the police would need at least an additional EUR 34 million for smooth work, a limit under which additional rebalancies would have to be accepted for the basic functioning of the police in the course of the year. And pay attention – with the adoption of the proposed budget rebalancing, there will be, in any case, a rebalance or a change of legislation that will transfer certain police tasks to private security entities, which will then offer these services in commercial form on the market. The Social Democratic Block, the SMC, the coalition, those who thus defend themselves against the opposition or the privatisation of the economy, according to the union representatives on the part of the police, by this budget rebalancing, you privatise security or force the transfer of certain security measures to the market. Now let someone explain to me the logic of such an understanding of this budget or the scratching of such a budget. You are already talking about how it is with education and how this balance of the budget is developed. On the Committee on Finance, Secretary of State of Cats with the Ministry of Education said with these words that "this year will have to survive somehow". You're talking about a year that's going to start, and now the department that's supposed to give the material base that it's supposed to invest in a youth that's going to develop our country, and it says, "you're going to have to survive this year somehow." Next; you say that you have made difficult negotiations and that you have got a good solution. A good solution is not one that everyone disagrees with; but a good solution is one that will give some impetus and allow the state to move forward normally. If this balance is a good solution to which Prime Minister Miro Cerar focuses on the future of Slovenia, I am even more concerned than I was about the inauguration in Parliament in early September. And when Mr Maramor complained that he was very tired of discussing the balance, of coordinating that the negotiations were difficult, it was hard that they lasted almost five months. Compare Mr Marble's statements in October when he took office and the actual balance. In October, he said very boldly and sovereignly that the 2015 rebalancing would be rigorous, that the government would limit the public sector's wages and that public spending would be limited by EUR 754 million. And the result – expenditure is more than €460 million. Minister Maramor went to the negotiating table, followed by five months of difficult negotiations aimed at saving €754 million; he came back with a higher cost of €460 million. And if Minister Marble said that we are at the bottom, these are his words, after we are at the bottom, he has served us with a budget that has a record consumption of €10 billion. Review the budgets of crisis years. 2009 – 9.3 billion, first crisis year. 2010 – 9.3 billion. Year 2011 – 9.5 billion. The year 2012, for the first time in history, when public spending fell — 9 billion. 2013 – 9.3 billion. And then in 2014, when the government of Alenka Bratušek came and this mandate was followed by the government of Mir Cerar – first plan 9.6; then under the government of Mira Cerarj jump – 9.8. In 2015, one pinch is less than 10 billion. In 2014, we committed ourselves to an increase of EUR 4 billion in debt. Do you know how much that is?Oh, my God! This is 2 000 euros per capita, or 137 euros per month per capita. The state has committed itself without structural reforms, and for each of us is paying off a middle class car; we citizens do not have this middle class car; we only have debts. And don't say that this budget is development-oriented. This budget is the creation and maintenance of the status quo and the continuation of established practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u76	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives and representatives of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I'm sure every parliamentary group in this National Assembly is able to make or perform a so-called budget blow if I may use the words of the Finance Minister Dr Dusan Mumorr on the night that the desert Tuesday was transferred to the ashtray Wednesday. New Slovenia is not that kind, although perhaps we could stage it because we are in opposition. We've only prepared two amendments. They have not been accepted, although I really place this coalition on my heart, that it might be good for a better atmosphere, that sometimes in a balance or a budget some amendment to a budget or a rebalancing of a coalition will be accepted. We are familiar with this practice from the Government, which we have drawn up in the 2004-2008 mandate. At that time, I also agreed within the coalition partners that we supported the amendment of the then opposition LDS. Today, the gardens are already known, towards the end of the construction of a subway under the rail line in Murski Sobota. We stand for pensioners, young people, families, for all who live in this country. And if we stand for all of this, for better prosperity, for the better functioning of all social systems and subsystems, it is crucial that we improve our economic situation. And for economic growth we simply need to understand the following: we will not be able to achieve economic growth on the same basis as in the pre-crisis period. We need to address the structural weaknesses in the economy that have been revealed during the recession. The integrity of the policy package, the complementarity of the measures and the speed of their implementation will determine how quickly we will be able to restore sustainable economic growth, which must be based on a new investment start of the economy, with ownership and not debt financing. And what are the key priorities for restoring the economy? We've already written them in our program. Firstly, the effectiveness of legislation and the judicial system; secondly, the extension and restructuring of enterprises; thirdly, the improvement of bank balances and the establishment of more sustainable financial stability bases; and fourthly, the strengthening of the long-term sustainability of public finances. I could also list and discuss emergency measures, which, unfortunately, also this year, will not be taken by the government in 2015. How do we see that we increase pensions to give at least some shorthand, as they say, to those who have nothing to do to improve the financing of education, research. If we're not a society of knowledge, there will be nothing to our development. How do we see that? We see that we also use the European instruments at our disposal; I am now specifically talking about the employment of young people. Yesterday or before yesterday, I read the following in one of the Slovenian newspapers, and perhaps I should read on the Ministry of Labour’s website – “No less, the unemployed are more young people and they are not paid for the internship”. The government is 30 January last year – the government is now second and the minister is the same – the government adopted an implementation plan for the Youth Guarantee programme a good year ago. This provision foresees that in 2014 and 2015 young people up to the age of 29 will be offered employment, training or education during the 4 months following their application to the unemployed. But the expected optimistic results are not visible, and young people are, to say the least, dissatisfied with the fulfillment of government promises. The journalist wonders where 153 million euros went, with which the Government boasted that it would devote them to the implementation of the scheme. How can there be more unemployed young people today than before the preparation of the Youth Guarantee? The figures are as follows: March 2013 – unemployed youth 27 thousand 645 January – unemployed youth are more than 3 thousand 187. And no one gets hurt. And when we hire these young people and when we hire 24 000 unemployed parents, 24 000 are families where two parents are unemployed; when we hire all of these, the pensions that we are working for in New Slovenia will be better, and all other social sub-systems will work better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor. [[advertising from the hall]] Here you go, replica, Mr. Jursha.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Since I have very little time, I will just say that my colleague Horvat must know what coordination is and what lifting is.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u79	Procedurally, Mr. Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u80	Thank you, Mr. President. I know my well-respected cousin is very much in favour of pensions. I'm sure he didn't understand my debate on the Finance Committee. It's true that what we're paying into the pension register is not getting back, Comrade Franz. In fact, we are dealing with a solidarity system, a two-time solidarity system. Once within the pension fund, secondly, solidarity – and it is right that it is solidarity – to give about a billion and a half years from the budget to the pension fund. I would like nothing from the budget to ensure that the pension fund is sustainable. It is therefore necessary to start a new pension reform today. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u81	Nothing's gonna happen to the procedurals, keep going, because it wasn't procedural at all. For this reason, Mr Horvath, I must give you a reminder, because this was not procedural, but it was a procedural use of the replica to the replica, which I will not allow. We'll move on. Now he's got the word, Mr. Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I would, too, although I am not an expert in finance, but I do not need to count more than 10 to understand our budget and our problems. Our spending is little less than 10 billion, and our revenue is a billion 400, almost less. In addition, we need to transfer almost a billion 600 from the budget to the pension fund. Billion, it's a good billion interest to pay back, for those debts we've already created, a billion 100 about social. By now, we have committed approximately every Slovenian, including the one born, to 14,000 euros. This year, another 4 billion will have to be committed to cover budget deficits and backlogs. This is another 2,000 euros per capita. And as far as we know, even over the next few years, there are about so many — from 2 billion 300 to 2 billion billion, and each year it is necessary to return. And it is likely that the budget deficit will not disappear so quickly that it will be necessary to borrow 4 billion more each year for years. I'd still be pessimistic if it were a surplus as much as a deficit. If the surplus was over a billion 400, and we had to borrow 4 billion a year, it would take a lot of years to get to zero. Now we've got the other way around. We have talked so much about pensions, I would very much like to see the Slovenians have better pensions, but we also have to look at what is going on with most of those new jobs that are created in us, for minimum wages; most of them are minimum wages. Ladies and gentlemen, these minimum salaries are below EUR 500 and the average pension is over EUR 500, and 562 is the average pension. The minimum wage is €497 if we count the net without transportation allowances. I don't know what's fairer. In addition, we have a social policy so that those who have nothing to do, who have nothing to do, who have three children, get more social support than they would get if they went to work and were in lower classes. What's the incentive here for people to work? I don't mind, we're a social state and we have to give every citizen a decent life, but not just an average. It could also be said that for 800 euros each year, the state has to commit itself to the resident to transfer from the budget to the pension fund – 800 euros per year per capita. We're all always dealing with just how we're going to share money that's getting smaller and smaller. But we do very little work on how to create more. When I looked at the government's normative programme for this year, which the government will adopt, it is clear from this, after accepting that something small will be machined this year. That is why I appeal to everyone to speed this up as much as possible in order to ensure that our over-indebted economy deals with banking problems, payment non-discipline, it has a bunch of administrative obstacles to sort of put an end to it as soon as possible so that the economy can breathe. For foreign investors, we're not interesting, we're an hermetically closed state. To date, the Czech Republic has five times as many foreign investments as Slovenia. We have very expensive building land to get an investor, especially a foreign, construction permit, for several years; which is outrageous. And it's not a bright future in this respect either. In Slovenia we have 700 laws and about 19 thousand sub-laws. I think the biggest problem here is that we've fenced ourselves with these legal acts so we can't go anywhere. Officials live like a kidney in the flock because they are protected by all these sublegal acts. We're not going anywhere; if we don't cut in here, we're not going anywhere. I appeal to the government that there is no need for money in this area; there is a need for vision, strategy and what men should have in their pants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u83	Mrs Marija Bachič has the floor. I'm sorry. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't know why you tried to skip me, but maybe it happened to you by accident, but maybe it didn't. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Government, I am sure that in this National Assembly on the side of the government and on the side of the coalition and the opposition, there is no one who would disagree that we want a better, better social quality, that we want higher pensions, because we are aware that three quarters of the pensioners live on the edge of poverty, that we want higher salaries for employees, especially when we are talking about minimum wages, and that we want to reduce unemployment and improve the situation in this country. Today, a great many words have been said on these subjects, but I am particularly disappointed and sad, because in addition, the balance has few said what is crucial and what needs to be done if we are to follow what I am talking about. The President of the Government, Mr Cerar, said, among other things, he has listed two important objectives, the first being to promote economic growth and the second is to reduce unemployment and increase employment. Yes, it is, and Mr President of the Government has said it very well. However, if this coalition and this government wanted to pursue these two objectives, it would be imperative that the balance you have brought to the National Assembly should also be accompanied by appropriate measures to ensure that you can follow the two objectives discussed here today by the President of the Government, Mr Miro Cerar. And I, as opposition Member, will list at least four measures that should be part of this package together with this rebalancing if we are to follow up on those goals that your Prime Minister has mentioned today. For the first time, if we want to revive economic growth – a reduction in taxes and contributions. Secondly, the reduction of administrative barriers, particularly in the area of space and change, I speak in this area. Thirdly, the amendment of labour law. And for the fourth time, it's equity and debt financing. If the honourable Mr President of the Government and this government and this coalition really meant to achieve these goals, those measures I have just talked about would be part of today's debate. And then everyone sitting here today in the National Assembly - the government, coalition and opposition - would be most pleased to know that this time we really do not speak up, but really want to reach those key goals that are to reduce unemployment and increase employment. And you know, if we don't do it in this country, we can talk for another hundred hours, and I don't know how many coalitions can be replaced here, we won't get the desired goals. Without people having a job and a salary, and economic operators, entrepreneurs and craftsmen being able to work in such a way that they can compete in this European story in which we live, we have no choice. We can't share, we want to raise pensions, what I said before, how to raise social assistance and so on; if we don't create. And I keep trying this coalition, this government, and all of us sitting in the National Assembly, to make sure that the only way is to find a solution to what I'm talking about right now. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is a very important part of which I have just been talking about. Finally, I will disrupt one more thing – the National Assembly, this government could devote a lot more money to the ministry than it is now intended to solve the common problem which, if the relevant authorities, the judiciary reacts in accordance with the conditions they have in law. And those individuals and that narrow group, the vastly corrupt mob that abused this country, would steal this country, bring it not only to the courts, and take it back to the budget. They brought money from these Clear Streams, all those who have insight into these things know how the money went from this country to the oasis. [[…]] And once and for all, let's finish this topic and make this whole national assembly come together, no matter who's in the party, so we can put these damn bastards in jail and take away what's not theirs. Not just for them, but for narrow family members. As I've seen recently, they've been rewritten into all possible options and they have assets. The State or all authorities have a basis in the legislation that this National Assembly has adopted in order to be able to do so. Nothing's ever happened before, nothing. And then we see if we can give one of them social assistance, or if we can't give it to him. It's amazing, it's embarrassing, it's embarrassing! And I'm sad and disappointed that most people in this national assembly don't understand that we have to do this in the shortest possible time, because we all want to do this. We all know and in the background is 30 billion and more money stolen and taken from our country. And today, it is easy to walk through our Slovenian land by thieves who are here painted on this newspaper. Read that for yourself. And when you read that, you have to get sick. And for once, we have to end this. That's not funny, Mrs. Vranitz. But it's sad. And you should be the last one to laugh. Believe me, because you're responsible for this, I'm not going to say that you are, I'm sorry, I'm not going to condemn you. [[…]] I'm not gonna say that. That would be wrong. I wanted to say that those who are in certain positions and who have had the opportunity and have the opportunity to influence this have not done what they should have done in order for one order to happen in this country. And not only will he always be on the side of those who suffer, the poor common man; they and the giant thieves laugh in a mustache, make a fool of themselves, come with big, I don't know what kind of briefcases and carry from one side to the other full briefcase – whether it's health, or whether it's that I won't say, infrastructure and so on. That's why I'm putting an end to it. If we take a coalition and opposition together in this area, you have all the votes for these things in the opposition, we will also reach a point where we can lead this country in the direction that Prime Minister Miro Cerar spoke about today, on these two objectives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u85	Mrs Marija Bachič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Almost certain, I could argue that the budget of the Republic of Slovenia has not yet satisfied all budgetary consumers and those linked to budgetary resources. Not during a period of fat cows, even less now, when we have been facing the financial and economic crisis for several years. The means are not enough — not for our children, not for the elderly, not for the unemployed. The worst part is that more and more employees face poverty. On the other hand, a group of people with a lot of money in unknown accounts are succinctly avoiding all responsibilities. It is true that we are most concerned about the level of risk of poverty in children, since the country did not take additional measures during the economic crisis to protect the child population. The poorer position of the medium layer, which is largely not eligible for social transfers, is why their situation is deteriorating and practically the medium layer is disappearing. More and more employees of the poor. The position of employees or self-employed persons who receive low or irregular incomes and who are marginally overestimated for the purpose of obtaining revenue from public funds and for the enforcement of subsidies is deteriorating. Despite the decline in GDP, Slovenia has managed to protect the most vulnerable groups, but social transfers of poverty cannot be reduced. It is only possible to mitigate its consequences and to enable people to survive. Therefore, it is imperative to maintain and strengthen the standards of the social state achieved, but we are again and again finding that all savings are being done on the shoulders of our people, who have been restrained to the point that they can no longer breathe. But if we look at the positive side – economic growth is getting stronger. The positive effects of the measures appear, and it is high time for our people to feel them too; not just the banks – and especially the people. In 2016, we expect support and a great deal of understanding from all stakeholders when there will be measures on the table concerning social transfers, families and individuals to be aligned with the projected economic growth. If economic growth is not sufficient, we will insist that all commitments made by the State to the socially weak are implemented by additional money provision. Social Democrats are a party that understands the plight of people, so we will give all our attention to the social situation of our people. Of course, this will not be possible if there is no participation of all parties – the finance ministry, municipalities, businesses and, above all, the banks. The latter is essential to be included in this project. If we have recently saved taxpayers with billions of financial injections to help bankers, now is the time for bankers to offer their hands to the weakest. We are pleased, however, that an additional €8 million for public works is provided in the rebalancing, €8 million is foreseen for training in the workplace, funds are provided for subsidisation of jobs and for first-time job seekers, for whom an immediate practice and a public test for young people are planned in 2015. The efforts will be geared towards drawing on the funds of the new operational programme for the period 2014-2020 as soon as possible. I am most pleased, however, that funds are provided to start construction on the Fat Rtice, which is expected to be completed in 2016; and the home in Ljubljana. There are also prospects for enlargements for the protection and work centres, for 70 cities, which is still far too small in terms of the waiting type and needs, but it is still very important. It's really not a solution to the situation, but it's a step closer. Despite the reduction in resources, it is important to maintain the status we have so as not to interfere with the legally guaranteed rights of the people. That is what this balance ensures, and that is why I support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u87	The State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence mag has the floor. Milos Bizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u88	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Members and Members! Some inaccuracies have been expressed in the discussions so far regarding the Ministry of Defence, which could lead to a misinterpretation of the subject, so allow me, because it is also my duty to point out these inaccuracies. Of course, I would also like to add to or clarify some of the claims. First, something should be said about the nominal amount of the budget of the Ministry of Defence. Indeed, the nominal amount of the rebalancing of this budget is 6.3 million higher than the planned budget for 2015. At the same time, however, it is important to note how this increase occurred. We certainly gain a large share by raising funds. At the Ministry of Defence, we have decided to rationalise our business by disinvestment in the field of arms, real estate and a large proportion of these assets through disinvestment and rationalisation. The second source of funds that contributed to the increase in the budget is already mentioned in today's debates - the European Union Solidarity Fund, to which we are entitled, due to the damage caused to us by last year's sting. This is just a transfer and it goes to citizens or to local communities. And the third source, which contributed to an increase in the nominal amount, is the European crisis management project, where we applied and received this project. When we talk about the increase, we are talking about the means of use and not about the integral means. Of course, the movement of defence expenditure should also be taken into account. We are an integral part of the NATO alliance and there is also an important amount of defence spending that we are earmarking for defence. I must say, and you all know this, that the defence expenditure from 2010 to today fell very quickly and in large quantities. I must say that defence expenditure was between 2010 and 1.6% of gross domestic product. They then decreased by 1.05 % in 2013. Last year we have barely reached a percentage, and in 2015, as defined by this balance, we will fall below a percentage, to 0.97% of the defence expenditure in gross domestic product. This is also our problem when we communicate with our allies. You know very well that the Alliance has a commitment to allocate about 2% of the gross domestic product for defence expenditure, but we are aware that this percentage is unlikely to be achieved for several years. Therefore, despite the fact that the nominal amount of the budget has increased, on the other hand, we must also conclude that the share of defence expenditure in the gross domestic product has decreased to a problematic level of 0,97 %. At this point, I must make it clear that unmanned aircraft are not subject to procurement in 2015, nor are the funds provided for in the balance sheet you accept, nor are they an integral part of the real estate plan you will be considering tomorrow. Unmanned aircraft are defined in the Development Programme Plan adopted by the previous government in 2013. According to those plans, it is expected to be delivered in 2016-2017. What it's gonna be like to get these kind of planes, no one knows right now. Of course, they depend on the budgetary resources and also on the priorities we will set. No procedures have been carried out in connection with the purchase itself so far and no invitation to tender has yet been published. I'd like to say a few more words about the vehicles. True, at the Ministry of Defence we have a thousand 540 vehicles, the average age of these vehicles is 14 years and an average of 150,000 kilometres. With the vehicle replacement plan we planned a replacement of 272 vehicles, but this does not only mean replacing these vehicles, it also means disinvesting. With this, we will reduce the rolling stock by a full 20%, so that the cost of purchasing these vehicles will be borne by the means that would otherwise be used to service and repair old vehicles that would be used for fuel for old vehicles and also from resale itself. We have also informed the Committee of the National Defence Council, which has also agreed to such a programme. With our replacement of vehicles we will achieve rationalisation and also modernisation, we will reduce costs. It is worth noting that this move will reduce and not increase the number of vehicles in use, and the benefits will be greater. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u89	The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance mag has the floor. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Allow me to respond to some of the statements or to some of the questions raised in this round of discussions. First, the question raised is whether funds are provided for all payments from the pension fund. I can answer yes. In the first place, it is important for pension fund payments to be made on the basis of the contributions collected. We can see that the level of contributions collected for pension and health allowance is being strengthened, which is due to better economic conditions and also to individual measures that provide both cashiers with additional revenues. In addition, the state budget provides a transfer of billions and a half, which is 72 million less than last year; but still 52 million more than in the adopted budget. According to estimates prepared together with representatives of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office, we estimate that through this transfer we will be able to cover all liabilities to pensioners or to beneficiaries of other pension benefits. Let me point out once again that the reduction in resources to the budget user of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for 130 million does not mean a reduction in the level of realisation in 2014, but rather a reduction in the estimates of the necessary expenditure, as we estimated in November 2013. And, as I mentioned in my first performance, it is precisely the economic situation that dictates smaller social transfers, which is why the assessments of the necessary resources change on unaltered grounds. Several questions were raised regarding the possibility of coordination of pensions. Let me read once again a part of the President's opening statement on this; not to pretend that my statement can replace a statement by a President or a Finance Minister, but to ensure that such an important part of the debate does not go unanswered. This was said: "The reformed structure of the proposed budget rebalancing of the government follows two key objectives, for the first time, to promote economic growth and, secondly, to increase employment. The objectives are also pursued by all other systemic solutions and measures, thus creating the conditions for future years to provide for a certain coordination of pensions and social transfers. We are also committed to this by coalition parties in our agreement." The next topic, for the first time, I will mention it once again, 11 projects for which municipalities have run for European funding. These are projects that could be expected to be financed from the European funds of the old perspective in the event that those projects that have received decisions on the allocation of the European funds of the old perspective would not be implemented at the intended level or would not be implemented at all. It is therefore projects that have never had the European funds provided, but in some ways were waiting lines for the possible use of resources that would remain. Since spending rights have been allocated to draw back the old financial perspective more than European budget allocations, a scheme has been agreed with the municipalities involved in these 11 projects to prioritise these projects in drawing on European funds for a new cohesion or a new financial framework. However, in order to actually draw on the European funds of new financial cohesion, certain formal conditions must be met. The first condition is fulfilled, which means that the operational programme is signed. The second condition is to draw up implementing rules and these are in the final phase of inter-sectoral coordination. Furthermore, we need to be confirmed by the European Commission for the bodies that will take care of the implementation of the use of the funds of the new financial perspective. It is realistic to expect the first contracts to be signed somewhere in the middle of this year. Until then, projects cannot be named or listed in the budget rebalancing but can be defined as registered projects in the total amount. And, as I mentioned earlier, funds for this purpose are planned in two sub-programmes – water management and management or action in the field of climate change. With regard to the fear that we will not be able to draw on all the European funds of the old perspective, let me reiterate once again that the measure of the so-called surplus rights to use the allocated spending rights for the greater value of projects, such as the value of the whole envelope or the total amount of resources that can be expected from the European budget. And it's a normal way of planning that when you're done pumping, you can immediately replace a possible outage with new projects. All these projects are being developed, implemented and must be completed by the end of this year in order to be eligible for payment from European funds. Many of our efforts are also focused on this. Furthermore, the amount of funds allocated to the various agencies and the inter-ministerial working groups has been exposed. Transfers to budgets or transfers from the state budget to public agencies have decreased from EUR 137 million in 2007 to 29 million this year; in short, a drastic reduction in transfers to various agencies. Second. Interdepartmental groups – if we are dealing with a number of interdepartmental projects, how can we expect these interdepartmental projects to be carried out without being organised in this way? However, these inter-ministerial working groups do not have their own employees, but are involved in them by public servants. A whole set of objectives has been mentioned, a coalition treaty has been cited, but I believe that we all know that the coalition agreement has been concluded for 4 years; not for the whole budget document. With regard to the rise in taxes and the change in the income scale, these measures allow for the maintenance of tax revenues at the level that was already achieved in last year; and this is an extension of certain measures that have been in force so far. With regard to the allegations that we are reducing social transfers, let me stress once again that it is not a matter of any reduction of individual rights under this heading, but rather of the amount of resources we need to implement the legal obligations in this area. As a result of all the measures mentioned today, the estimated volume of this consumption is different in this year. Many negotiations or agreements have been mentioned. Let me point out that the social agreement is something completely different from the union agreement, so it is not appropriate for this matter to be linked or mixed. With regard to measures not to be implemented this year, measures not to be taken for the adoption of the budget, or for the implementation of the previous year, should be prepared for a spontaneous scenario. In view of the spontaneous scenario, yes, we estimated that it would be appropriate to achieve 754 savings; but this was the initial bargaining position. In fact, by measures on the revenue and expenditure side, we have realised almost EUR 669 million of measures or changes; on the income side for the good 100 million, the rest is on the expenditure side. The reduction of taxes, removal of administrative barriers, also assesses whether we can make the system of recovery of unjustifiablely acquired property or illegally acquired assets more efficient or even operational — including all of these tasks that the government devotes itself to. However, it is impossible to draw up measures within a few months which could be detected in this year. But these are certainly the tasks to be devoted to all this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u91	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! After several hours of discussion, I find that no one is actually satisfied with this budget; and this somehow gives me some optimism. Of course, I would like everyone to be satisfied, but for something like this we should have significantly more income, billions more income. Since we will spend more in the coming year than we will earn, this fact is that everyone is dissatisfied with this budget, a reflection of how everyone is doing the same thing. In this part, I estimate that the budget, let's say, is fair. No one is silent because they would be very pleased, everyone has comments, they are not satisfied political parties, they are not satisfied ministers. Everyone wants more in their wallets, they want more financial bases for the realisation of their projects. However, given the prevailing situation in which we are, in view of this huge financial debt, the budget is as it is, very acceptable to me. However, I would like it to be significantly better in the coming years and to move on to such a budget once we are all satisfied at the start and there will be more money on each of the pillars. The budget estimates that it is equally fair to all the people, I would not like to express myself in some way; rather, to those who do not have jobs, to those who have jobs, even to those who are on their own economic initiative who carry out their own activities. For everyone, this budget will bring so much or at least it will not deprive them that it will not remember this budget in 2015 in any way bad compared to previous budgets. However, I certainly hope that it will be remembered after better economic growth and after more employment opportunities, which is also one of the objectives of this budget, as we have just heard from the representative of the Ministry of Finance. As far as infrastructure investments are concerned, I am pleased that the budget, let's say, is also development-oriented or investment-oriented. These two expressions are also quite consonant in this work. There's a lot of money, over 800 million euros, for transport. With this we can be satisfied, certainly some are not yet satisfied because they expect, today we have also heard, railway from Kočev to Ribnica, we want a second track, we want a third development axis. For all of this, there will be no money in this year's budget, but it will certainly be enough to rebuild railways. Of course, we would also like it a little more in the restoration of roads. I hope that this funding will be resolved this year or with the next budget. The criticism of this budget shows that the budget is balanced. If we asked the parties on the political left, they'd say that it's not enough investment if we asked the parties on the political right, they'd say it's more expensive than it was at the time of the Bajuk government. This environment is the one we need to pick up in 2015. I believe this will also bring some results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u93	Mrs. Marusha Škopac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Today we are talking about the 2015 budget balance. No one is fully satisfied with him, that is a fact. All ministers, without exception, would like more resources to cover the needs of the resources they are responsible for. Such is, unfortunately, the reality of the current situation in which our country is located. However, in SMC, we are convinced that the balance is a reflection of the hard work of the government towards a better tomorrow. The balance ahead of us, as the Prime Minister has already said, has pursued two objectives: promoting economic growth and increasing employment. Despite all the criticisms we are hearing, we insist on the position that the balance sheet is investment oriented and oriented. Let me re-emphasize what has already been heard today; the funds devoted to investment are increasing by almost €357 million, 30% more than in 2014. In 2015, the country will devote 5.5% of gross social product to public investment, which is stronger than the average in the euro area and the European Union. A detailed review of the budget shows that, compared to last year's expenditure in the balance sheet, significantly more resources are allocated to intervention programmes and commitments, these funds increase by 134 %. For environmental protection and environmental infrastructure, funds increase by 67%, local self-government increases by 60%, as well as health care, where funds increase by 23%. The 2015 budget balance provides for larger investment projects in the following areas: rail transport for a total of €471 million. In the area of roads and motorways total 29.5 million euros. In the area of water and wastewater treatment, a total of €152 million will be allocated to flood safety, €82.8 million will be spent in the field of health, all emergency centres will be completed in 2015, and investments will be made in the UKC Maribor, which is provided for in the 52.5 million euro balance sheet. In the area of information infrastructure, several major projects will be implemented totalling EUR 50.5 million. With this latter, the Mira Cerar government is following its commitments under the coalition treaty on the centralisation of the state information system, which will in the long run help to reduce the costs that the state is currently earmarking. As the government devotes 82.8 million resources to the necessary regulation of flood security, we also demonstrate that all amendments tabled at the time of the adoption of the 2014 balance were unnecessary and rejected on a reasonable basis and that the government has kept the word and provided the promised funds. In the discussion of the former Prime Minister, individual very low budget items were explicitly exposed, particularly those with only €48.98. Let me answer you, Mrs Bratušek, it is the payments made to the engineer and to the consulting services for the work carried out in 2014, with the recipient of the bulk of the assets being a state-owned enterprise, namely DRI investment management, d. o. o. In past discussions, it has also been clear to us that the budget balance is a major disappointment and that there is no new investment in it. True, it is mainly about continuing investments in progress or investments that are already known and for many of them the past governments have not found funds, as otherwise they would have already been completed. Of course, a new government cannot start, within six months of being in power, with large new projects that take time to implement. From design to the acquisition of all permits and the start of implementation, it cannot be only six months. We all know that. At this point, however, it should be pointed out that the Government of Mir Cerar sent an operational programme for the implementation of the European Cohesion Policy, which was also confirmed on 16 December, immediately after its appearance in Brussels. Why am I bringing this up? Since this document is the basis for all new projects which will undoubtedly be included in the 2016 budget, the preparations of which will start in the current year. These projects will in fact reflect the work of the Government of Mir Cerar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u95	The word is Violeta Tomic. Procedurally, Mr. Podkoršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. Honorable President of the National Assembly, colleagues and colleagues! Of course, all respect for my predecessor, today we are talking about the most important document this year, and I hope that we have all the same documents on our tables. When we listened to the esteemed SMC Member, it seems to me that we are talking about different documents. I would therefore ask that we check whether we have all the same documents as regards the 2015 budget balance, whether someone already has for 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u97	It was meant for me and I have to decide on it. I think it was an abuse of procedure, and that for something that is, something that this clerk doesn't even know, that is the answer to a previous debate. That's why I'm warning you. We continue the debate. The word is Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. We've heard a lot of criticism about the budget. We've heard that it's non-investment, non-social and non-strategic. This, of course, is true, although we can see in the balance some kind of strategy or at least guidance, these are austerity measures that destroy key social sub-systems, education and health care, promote privatisation and patch up the coalition's survival holes. This is the direction of this government, which is nothing less than the direction of all the previous governments since the beginning of the crisis: tightening the belt, slowly, hole for the hole. Of course, Slovenia is within the European limits, but the political situation in the European Union is changing. According to the statement, Finance Minister Marble is one of the most vocally stopping these changes. The European Commission has announced that the Stability Pact rules will be applied flexibly. This applies mainly to investment expenditure. The government could therefore draw up a more courageous, social and investment-oriented budget. Persistence at 2.89% deficit is inhuman and unacceptable. The economy has not yet recovered enough to afford public expenditure. On the other hand, the government has done nothing on the side of revenue into the budget. There are no European restrictions here. We need a fair tax reform that will burden the richest, not the poorest. Tax reforms in the past have left hundreds of millions of euros a year. After taxes on capital and income from capital, we are Slovenians in the last place among the members of the Union. Our revenue under this heading is half lower than the average of the European Union. However, we have extremely high indirect taxes, VAT, excise duties, which disproportionately burden those of the least tangible and also the real sector. However, when we look at the use of the resources available, we see how unwise and even harmful it is, as he spends budgetary money in some places. The representative of the Government spoke earlier about the problematic level of spending on defence, but it seems unacceptable and distasteful to us that at a time when there is a shortage of nurses, when funds for learning aid are being cut down and scholarship funds are being cut, many ministers and ministers admit that there will be insufficient resources to maintain the current level, not only for improvements, but for the Ministry of Defence is planning a whole range of costs for working in relation to NATO. Among other things, I quote, "we will co-finance the construction of a new NATO headquarters." Wow!? We're really guys! Well, if we go to culture. As a cultural worker, I also have to stop at the cultural budget. This time the cultural budget will be nominally lowest after the rebalancing since 2006. Saving measures in culture are a constant and draw back from the times ahead of the crisis. I must stress that the reduction of budgetary resources makes cultural actors poor and creates increasingly poor working conditions for cultural workers. How, then, should culture carry out its tasks when it breathes on gills? It is again cut, with a good 2.8 million, in particular living culture under the Art Programme item, which means salaries in public institutions, public institutions programmes, project and programme calls. In addition, the Ministry says that it only tightens the belt to this point, which still allows for smooth action in the field of culture. Yes, but this area is staggering and even going back. This is what we all know who are or have been involved in this area. They say that the hungry bird sings better and we can only keep a person alive with water and bread, but this is certainly not a healthy and creative person. In agriculture, if I may just mention yesterday's meeting about Kobilna Lipica, which showed symptomatically how the coalition is doing with its majority. Our proposal was not, of course, voted to have the government take immediate action to address this problem, as it should have been adopted in 2013, but the coalition, by its majority, voted on its proposal to make the strategy only one year after the SDH report. I'm asking you very nicely, the employees will be on the street today, and the government will allow delays in solving problems. Our proposal to write off debt to the weakest was also voted out. But let me go back to agriculture. We all know that climate change is, but co-financing of insurance premiums for crop and animal insurance is falling by 70%, by 3 million euros. There is also a lack of strategy.We have a huge production that is not adapted to climate and hydrological conditions. Many crops of corn are known to be on inadequate sandy soil, even though there are constant droughts in Pomure. We are notoriously known as a country where precipitation is sufficient, but there are no irrigation systems and other measures to use this water for irrigation. The agriculture climate change adaptation programme is too ambitious. The Environment Ministry has a programme with a similar name, but that programme is not intended for agriculture, but for energy and energy use. For agriculture, 1.6 million are available, and these funds are not yet focused on substantial long-term measures. All of this is currently being used to subsidise crop and animal insurance. This is a good measure, but no insurance company will build a counter-clockwise irrigation system, no one will direct farmers to production that is tailored to our needs. The development dimension is completely ignored in the budget. There is a sub-programme Restructure and reconstruction of agricultural production, but this name is essentially misleading, as it is only a matter of maintaining status quo through financial means. To this end, only a good million euro is provided. As with climate change adaptation, there are no real programmes. Farmers should be assisted in modernising production, changing cultures and production techniques, organising cooperatives for increased food supply. This is the only way we will systematically begin to resolve the issues that concern all of us. Finally, the essence of the economy is not money, the essence of the economy is the goods to which all people are entitled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u99	He has a word, Mr. Ivan Škodnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Representatives of the Government, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members! There was a lot of talk today on both sides. Of course, we are still talking only about the balance, not the budget. We must be aware that the budget was prepared by another government that was ahead of us. And we also need to be aware that we are still in crisis and that this balance is somehow more crisis-oriented than developmental, and we need to know that too. For some big development move that would require more money, unfortunately we don't have it right now. I think that's clear to everyone. Even when you were looking at our parliamentary group somehow, you were talking about how much money the state owed, as if it were our fault. In fact, we are not talking about this in return, but I think that those of you who have been in this National Assembly for a long time know this more and you are more aware of it. But we won't talk about it. When we talk about the budget, we say that a healthy budget is one that is balanced between the expenditure and income sides and primarily corresponds to trends in socio-economic and not calendar cycles. In the Mira Cerar Group, we support the government because this balance is the best compromise in the future. The preparation and adoption of the budget balance does not, however, reflect the signs of stabilisation and normalisation of the situation in our country. Some things already show positive, even from Europe credit ratings are rising, interest rates are falling. In terms of content, the proposed 2015 budget balance follows the principles of a sustainable and supportive social state, economic growth and gives particular weight to the investment potential. Drawing on European funds will provide a significantly higher opportunity for public investment. These, after the 2015 budget rebalancing, increase by 30% in 2014 or almost €357 million. This represents 5.5% of GDP in 2015, the highest share in recent years and is about 3% above the average of public investments in the euro area and the European Union. Therefore, in the Mira Cerar Group, we insist that, in the given circumstances, the proposed rebalancing meets the expectations and needs of protecting the social and economic interests of people who, at these difficult times, especially need support and confidence in the country and its services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u101	Mr. Simon Zajc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. Nice hello to you all! Budget balance or budget rebalancing. Today we are looking at this budget from your own perspective, a little bit depending on where you're coming from, a little bit about what you've been doing before, because you know that area, a little bit about who you want to like, maybe young people, maybe retired people, maybe sick people, maybe just everybody. That would be the best. And all of us, not getting things wrong, would like to give us more money, of course. But this government and this coalition is the one that has to take this budget and balance it, just as she thinks it's best, and take responsibility for it. And this is the balance we have on the table today. Of course, there are criticisms about him, and no one is completely satisfied with him. One of the criticisms is that the rebalancing is not investment-oriented, although according to 2014, we are increasing investment by 30%. If we raised them even more, it would be even more investment-oriented, but we want it to be socially oriented. We need to find a balance. Then the criticism was whether the 2.89 percent deficit was adequate. It was felt that it would be better if we put it at exactly 3%, because this would minimise or at least choke the economy. Then there was a second opinion that it would be better if, I don't know, they put him on 2.5 that we had a little space if anything went wrong. And both opinions are correct. We agree with that, so we put it on 2.89. We have set it up so that economic growth is as low as possible, and there is still some room if anything goes wrong. But if something goes wrong, no one can predict it. It was obvious to us that we had not accepted any amendments. As I said, responsibility for this budget, this rebalance is taken over by the government and this coalition. And we think that just like it's made up, it's optimal. I looked at some of the amendments, and one of the amendments says that we should give the local community 3 additional millions. I agree that these 3 million are needed by the local communities and would be taken from the foreign ministry, namely foreign diplomacy. Once again, the question is whether this is right or wrong when we all know that our economic growth, this has been said many times today, raises exports, our exporting companies. These companies need diplomacy, economic diplomacy. Is it right for them to be taken now in these times? I don't know, in our opinion, maybe this moment isn't right to take away external diplomacy for 3 million. Many times our coalition treaty is also used in this House, including by the opposition. Sometimes for a little abuse. For example, if I make one case today, it has turned out that we do not take into account that we do not adhere to our coalition agreement because we are reducing social rights. We are reducing them because there is less money on some social items. But that's not true. We're not reducing social rights. There's less money because there's less unemployment. I think 4 thousand 300 on average is a month less than planned. Because there are fewer births, unfortunately, but not because they would reduce social rights. Then it was said that we would pay more for the interest. Although we will not give, in 2014, we gave 1,082 billion, in 2015 we will give 1,045 billion, because the interest fell for us. These interest rates have fallen because of which we are often criticized for our credibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u103	Mr. Andrey Chus has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u104	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues! When I listened to the debate today between my fellow Members and colleagues from the Mir Cerar Party in particular, I got the feeling that everything was fine in this country. But we all know everything's not okay here. That is why, of course, I suggest that we stop throwing sand in our eyes, but we actively approach the problems that can already be said to be traditionally present in Slovenia. The new standards and ethical criteria, however, have already been demonstrated by the ruling Mir Cerar Party on the Committee on Finance, when it thoughtlessly rejected all the proposals of the opposition parties' amendments with one swing of hand. You have shown a great deal of integrity and new political standards. And if it goes that way, then I really don't know where we're gonna land. When I look at the sections of the ministries and the realisation of infrastructure projects in Slovenia this year and, of course, what awaits us in the future, I say to myself, thank God that we are in the European Union, because if we were not, today we would have all the infrastructure somewhere at the level of the Middle Ages. And then work and live in a country like this, I say. These problems have been present for 25 years, and we talk about this every week, but nothing moves. That's why I think we're gonna have to start talking a little less and work harder. On the basis of the 2015 proposal for a rebalancing of the budget, I also note that, above all, the debt policy continues, which is extremely unfriendly to the young generation and to the generations to come and the new tax burdens. Now I will not talk at all about the Prime Minister's announcement, which says that as of 2016 the real estate tax will also enter into force. I think that in this country too, thinking will have to change a little bit and stop looking at the private initiative and the private sector as criminals. With such behaviour and such a policy as we have been implementing for the past few years, we will only beat those who create added value and employment, there will be no solution, there will be no prosperity and there will be no new jobs in Slovenia. That way, we can ask ourselves in this place who will hire if not the economy. We all agree that the public sector is a sector or entity that will be difficult to employ. And let's give a little please change philosophy and start supporting those who create added value. I am also a member of the Committee on Culture, Mrs Tomić has warned before, and the cultural sector will be given a nominal share of the funds in the last ten years, at least in the last ten years. And that's why I'm asking myself today where the criticisms, the protests, the disapproval of the professional public are, and when we all remember what happened only when we decided to cash one ministerial salary and give it to culture. We don't have any. Every stick has two ends. When I listened to Mrs Maruše Škopac's discussion, I was very pleased that she said herself that the construction of all emergency centres would be completed this year. And then I'm kind of calmed down because we also got assurances on this side that this year the Ptuj Emergency Center will also be finished. That's how I explained it to myself, and probably anyone who thinks a little bit logically. When we tabled an amendment in the SDS Group, where we allocate EUR 3 million to the emergency centre on Ptuj, the government rejected our amendment proposal, saying that there is enough funding already in the 2015 budget. Then on the board we hear that the Ptuj Emergency Centre is not foreseen this year because there is no funding. Now, if you'll just let me get a little bit of alignment, because either you think we're crazy or you're not smart. If I keep going. blackmailing a young generation. It didn't happen overnight, but it's just a reaction to intergenerational uncoordinated politics. With this budget balance, when we are again in debt, we have a budget balance when we give one billion euros for interest. I don't know how we're gonna keep the young at home. I really don't know. Because of these interest rates, they are increasingly sorry, because we continue to owe ourselves, our daily lives will be heavily burdened: higher taxes will be taxed, worse the environment will be for self-reliance, for the economy, for entrepreneurship. Okay, well, maybe it's important that we bring together these five years now, and then let the young generation deal with it. But that's irresponsible. If you'll excuse me, I'll discuss it myself in explanation of the amendments, and from the appointment to today, the government of Mira Cerar has not done much. It is true that it has drawn up one budget balance for 2014, which I believe was more familiar with since the financial year ended and the budget balance for 2015. The opposition, as well as a number of members of the coalition, also has sufficient conclusions on their working bodies when we get to know, analyse, propose, recommend. Your Honor, you have been chosen to rule, not to get to know each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u105	The word has magic. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u106	Thank you, Chairman. Above all, there is a debate on the general part of the budget or the budget rebalancing, and we must all be aware that our objective is to balance our finances and that we are achieving the goal set so that our deficit is below 3%. It means we can spend as much as we create or 3% less. And it certainly is art to balance what we actually create and what we need to spend. But today we are talking mainly about how it is being taken, but we are talking very little about how the balance is being rebalanced during the year, even when measures are being implemented that will allow certain authorities and organisations to save money on the expenditure side and that may be sufficient. One such case, which has also been mentioned today that we are only taking, is in the field of local self-government. The congregation association was aware of the situation and, although perhaps each of the municipalities, small or large, is not satisfied, but we are already used to it, if someone is taken for granted that he is not normally satisfied, they are aware that there is not enough resources in the budget, that the country simply did not raise enough funds from income for the average and they agreed with the government to adopt the Public Finance Balance Act. And this law is a fine example of positive action, although we are likely to tear it up and tear it up again tomorrow, but in 11 laws of intervention, it allows the costs to be reduced for the congregations. And, of course, a third measure is envisaged, where even greater savings can be made in the field of municipalities. Let me touch another segment that has been used so often today, and I think it is also misinterpreted. But he's referring to the police, to the police. We understand the situation as it is in the police, and we have really adopted seven conclusions on the committee. Mr Horvath said that we are not holding on to them, and that we are also breaking down the foundations of democracy. A colleague from the opposition later also said that, in fact, today we have done everything possible to make the situation worse for the police. But let me remind you a little bit that we have adopted two decisions which are relevant to this budget. Indeed, one of them was referring to the fact that the measures in the police should not deteriorate, and I think that nothing has been done to make them worse. On the contrary. The unions were then agreed not to interfere with the salaries of public officials and not of police officers. At that time, the project, or its continuation, was also approved, at a value of 8 million. It's not like that. He was approved. We have also supported the amendment of official legislation, which should also improve the position of police officers, because we know that this legislation requires change, and this will happen during the year. Another such relevant measure relating to the budget was to ensure that the police are adequately material and staffed by appropriate measures. An amendment was proposed by the opposition – because you say we never accept any, then we accepted quite a few opposition proposals – somehow they wondered whether they would give 300 or 250 or 200, but eventually decided to propose 250 jobs. Let me say that 150 will be realized this year, it is now known, this moment, that there may be more of them in the police by the end of the year. We have fulfilled two foundations. We can say to the police that the material situation of police officers in terms of their salary rights has not deteriorated, and progress has also been made as far as employment is concerned. However, it may remain in the field of material conditions, so to speak, of material costs, but even here, if we look at it, 280 million were planned in 2013, with a rebalancing increase to 292 million. For 2015, but not planned by this government, 271 million were planned and now raised to 278 million. So the police have received additional funds. We are aware that they are not enough to need 300 million, but we have received assurances from State secretaries, including at the committee meeting, and we believe that this will also happen so that these measures, positive, can also reduce expenditure on the part of the police and can save some money. In addition, the State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance has ensured that, with the powers they have and which the colleague has already stated and given to the Public Finance Act and the Law on the Enforcement of the Budget, certain funds may be redeployed during the year. I believe that the Government is aware and will do everything to ensure the security of property and the lives of people at the level they must be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u107	Mr. Marko Ferruga has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the government representatives and our colleagues! So let's be real for once! With this budget balance, it is clear that no one is satisfied, no one will be satisfied. But I'm not gonna look back on what the previous governments have done or anything like that. We've got a status quo, the situation isn't pink, we know how much money there is, we know where some money can be obtained. It is, however, the fact that this balance is a compromise between the desires, reality and actual abilities that this country has. We don't have any oil wells - maybe there was a hot tub in Lendava if they find it, I don't know, we don't have any diamond mines, so we have to live on what we have, what we can produce. We've all heard the wishes. Colleagues mentioned a great deal of desire, through amendments, through all other matters, where the various local communities, the saints, the pensioners, the various interested communities expressed their opinions that they would somehow extend and increase their wishes through the amendments. But we have to ask ourselves a simple question – now we are in charge of 28 billion, let's say, okay, if all these desires and needs are so great, but let's take care of another 28 and we solved the problem! But then don't say that on the one hand we have to have sustainable public finances, and on the other hand we have such a desire to live in some standards that we cannot afford. We need to take a real look at our situation today. The economy has only just now begun one step after another to heal the wounds, trying to take some step forward. And here I see this rebalancing as some sort of stabilisation point, so that it can manage the financial and economic situation and then, on some normal basis, we can start building ahead and looking at other things. But if we look for the negativity itself, why not take it, why not, I believe that this government has taken on its responsibility, we support it as the opposition, and we will stand for it, but I believe that the government has such intelligence and such knowledge, that it will clearly identify what its primary objectives are and that they will clearly tell what they want to do with it. Otherwise, we will not be able to take any further steps here. This is interesting because any item given in this budget balance can be looked at from negative salaries and positive wages. Just like Zajc's friend said, who said that everyone has a point of view. I believe that this government has its vision that ministers know what they are doing and actually have to live with this budget that they have been given. In a different way, this cannot be done, except that we will be in a new debt, which is not the point, because we want to stabilise public finances somehow, we want to be financially sustainable somehow, we want to be below this 3%, we want to start being credible in Europe and in the financial institutions in the world, so that we can start operating normally and we will start slowly, very slowly lowering our debt, which is not small. I think that this balance must certainly be supported and all the opposition will be working on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u109	Mr. Tillen Christmas has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u110	Thank you for your word. In my address I would somehow focus on a few statements that were previously made here, so that I would start at the beginning. It seems kind of paradoxical to me that those who have been here for many years are then kind of rhetorically wondering what happened to us today where we are. From the SMC to expect such an answer, we have been very good at this, I mean seriously let go, we also have some answers to this, but I think we will also respond to these answers according to what is in the budget, I think we are also partly responding to this, but certainly we are hardly the first to be called to answer for the last 25 years. On my left, it happens all the time that it's said that there's not enough for education, that there's not enough for the police, that there's not enough for many, let's say social transfers and so on. On the other hand, when we look at politics, it is said that we are talking about a slim country that already provides for lower taxes on its own, which means lower tax revenues, as well as smaller servicing and a smaller volume of our country. This means that if we followed this principle, it would mean that we could actually afford and offer citizens and citizens significantly less today. Thus, on the one hand, to advocate that taxes should be substantially reduced, tax revenues reduced and, on the other hand, to be somehow angry or even disgusted about how little we are going to do and, in fact, we should devote more, I think that somehow this does not belong together. It was also mentioned earlier that most of these projects will mainly be completed this year. The fact is that with this year's finalisation, the European perspective, which lasted from 2007 to 2013, and it is logical that most of the projects will be concluded this year, there is still a lot of money left, and there will be a lot to draw on, and in this time, much work is being done to actually get this money pumped up, which is also evident from the figures in the budget, which foresee a 30% increase in investment. Then there's this alleged dissension in the coalition. I think that, given how we have approached everything together and that we are in democracy, we are talking about all things, and we feel that, in view of the positions that our coalition party, Desus, is taking, on their part, that it is somehow legitimate. But it is also true that, given the circumstances, this is extremely difficult. If we look at one Slovenia with two million inhabitants, about 30% of the pensioners. That's 30%. The other 70% are not employed, there are young people here, there are children, they are unemployed and everyone else. Which means that when we talk about one particular group, we need to take into account in fact everything that would not have been significantly more affected at the expense of one group than we can afford at the moment. This is more in the direction of what has actually happened in recent years that one Slovenia has relatively so many pensioners. This is about the ordinary, about the elderly, we're talking about those who have complemented, is through work, we're also talking about those who may be disabled. What about these standards? What about our pension legislation, which has actually led to such an spending burden on the budget? It has also been mentioned, for example, that in the years of surplus, the pension office has contributed significantly to the construction of infrastructure projects. Nevertheless, it must be said that, despite the fact that this is true, it is true years ago. At least over the last ten years, the budget has consistently been budgeted, according to other sources, not pension benefits, passed over a billion and over a billion and a half in the previous year and this year, so that so much of the rights can be maintained. If we move forward, the agencies were mentioned, why don't we shut them down? The matter is relatively complex. In so many and many years, so many agencies have been established. It has to be admitted that we also have a tremendous head-break in the SMC, how to solve this problem. In a very short time, or within a few months, you can't do that. Solutions need to be drawn up, and this takes time. It was also mentioned that we have lower targets than we did in 2008. I'm having a hard time commenting. I think the targets are somehow higher. It is true, however, that in 2008 GDP was still slightly higher than we had in 2014, and probably as it will be in 2015. For this reason, we cannot simply say flatly why there are lower targets. We need to see what the situation was like back then. We're still at the top, otherwise the recession has already begun elsewhere, but we haven't felt it yet. We also recapitalised or rehabilitated banks relatively late. And here I don't want to speculate how much less money we could actually spend on this, how much less we would pay interest on this title, which is now over a billion dollars, and they're getting sucked into all the other consumers, they're going to be at the expense of education, at the expense of the police, at the expense of social transfers at the end of the day, because we would certainly need more social transfers or other social transfers, and at this point we're not able to provide them. It also mentioned cutting social, moving money into some investment, and so on, that it cannot bear fruit. I would still say that Slovenia is not Greece. Greece has a 200% debt in GDP. If we look very simplistic, they're now speculating to maybe just write it off, but in a way, they've made a different deal. They pay substantially less interest than we pay for a smaller debt. I think, from the point of view of the credibility of a country, if you borrow something and spend it, it makes sense that someday, if you've committed yourself, and you've repeatedly promised it, you'll come back. Their possible non-refundation would mean additional liabilities for Slovenia for all those loans that are over EUR 200 million for all those guarantees we have given. I think that this is inappropriate for Slovenia to approach this way. If we looked at the state of public finances today, we should probably all wear at least three coats in this hall. We have minus 30 billion. As previously said, more than one billion interest. These are also going to go down. We are fortunate that, on the basis of the measures, interest rates on government bonds have fallen. As loans or commitments will be replaced by new ones, the relative interest rate will also be reduced, which means that there will be a slight increase in our consumption space in other areas in this area and then in later years. In these times, in my opinion, what was done was done. Also this fiscal effort with 3.4% of the deficit to go to 2.9% now was a commitment that we are somehow promoting in the SMC and counting on it to be achieved. Nevertheless, let us maintain this so-called Kenyan approach. It is said that some investment start-up with a 30% increase in investments where possible. It is mainly possible at the level of these European funds. And just so there is no mistake, these are not the European funds that we would be given. These are the funds that the Republic of Slovenia actually pays, and they say that when it pays them, it also draws them, At the expense of social welfare, which has been said to reduce certain things and so forth. It is still necessary to say that what needs to be done will also be worth it. If this money turns out to be insufficient somewhere in the course of the year, there will be urgent transfers in such a way that all these payments will ensure that people are not actually at risk of life. The fact is, this budget is a plan. And life on paper or life in reality is different. And in this context, I also believe that the government will do everything to find where it may have been found that there was still too little cake cut off to complement it with transfers from where additional possible reserves will also be identified during the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u111	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Marjan Dolinšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u112	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. There's been a lot of talk today about the rebalancing. I would like to focus more on one area, namely the part of the budget that concerns the defence area. Why? For a simple reason, because I think it is right to explain some things more precisely, because obviously, as it has been heard from some debaters so far, I do not know what kind of big money and some increases are in defence. And that's why I have to explain things. I would like to start by saying that in the adopted budget for 2015, 332 million, the change was 6 million 300, which means a proposal for a rebalancing of 338 million. This goes to support NGOs, which was previously at the Ministry of Labour, with 1. 1. This fell to the Ministry of Defence in 2015, amounting to EUR 754 000. Then, protection against natural and other disasters was initially adopted budget 26 million 800, increased by 6.9 million to 33 million 700. Then the operation of the protection, rescue and relief system was previously 12 million 400, increasing by 6 million 700 to 19 million. We know what happened last year and the last years with natural disasters in our country. It is forgotten that when it passes, it is quickly forgotten, but when a natural disaster strikes us, we all demand that the country give its own, that it must provide assistance, rescue, etc. It is necessary to separate – one is the army, the other is the administration, or civil protection and rescue. I must say that on the Slovenian Armed Forces General Staff item, specific management, education and human resources supply, it decreased by a million 200, it also reduced the operational performance and readiness of the Slovenian Armed Forces by a million 600, and there it was by a million 200, here by a million 600. What I'm trying to say is that we have to look at things real. In five years, the defence budget fell by 40%. We need to think about that. Where's the ministry down so much? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u113	Mr. Jean Mahnič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! From the present debate, I can draw the line that virtually no one talks about this budget balance in superlatives. However, if the rest of us are speaking frankly, we do have one of the coalition parties here, which is discussing today with a fig in his pocket. And this is Desus. They're criticising the budget's rebalancing, criticising what's going on with pensions, which, of course, is a good pear. If they are serious, this budget balance will not be confirmed today because they will vote against it. If they are not serious, they will support and continue with this form. I am truly sorry for the Party of Mir Cerar, such coalition partners you have gathered and with such coalition partners, who have been making this fate of Slovenia for 25 years, I am sorry, but you will not make any serious progress in this country. I keep hearing that already 61% of pensioners are at the threshold of poverty, and it is not said that Mrs and Mrs Desus has been in government since 1997, with the exception of the Bajuk government, that they are, as a result, guilty of being 61% of Slovenian pensioners in poverty, that the average pension is EUR 570 and so on. My old mother spent the whole working time behind the tape at Alpina Jiri, has 503 euros of net pension, if I'm not mistaken, she doesn't complain. She said that she was happy to have another 10 or 20 Euros away, only that young people would no longer move away and that they would have a perspective in that country. Next thing. If I wanted to speak as a typical opposition Member, I would discuss it differently on this item, but I will not. The budget of the Republic of Slovenia for defence is too low. The defense budget is too low. I was in Brussels last weekend at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. Each third word was budget, budget and once again budget. At the end of autumn 2014, NATO Summit was held in Wales. There the countries committed themselves to making defence budgets by 2020 at 2% of GDP and within the defence budget will go 20% of the investment funding. I come to the meeting on Saturday, they give me a letter and I put my head down. Slovenia on its own tail, as far as investment in defence is concerned. Exactly 3%. On the tail itself with 3% for investment. For example, 76% is paid. As I was informed, as I was told, in consultation with Secretary General Stoltenberg, Prime Minister Miro Cerar and Defence Minister Weber committed themselves, if I may say so, that the defence budget would not be reduced to at least the same level as last year. Again, from 0.97 % of GDP to 0.96 %. Yes, on the basis of the 2015 budget in force, it is increasing by 6 million, but on the basis of the 2014 implementation budget it is decreasing by 5 million. That's what we're saying. We're reducing the defence budget by 5 million. Now let's ask another question. Under what circumstances do we lower the defence budget? Under what circumstances are we reducing 24 million euros to the police? If I'm not mistaken, Mr. Bossic will probably fix me if it doesn't, the police will need 34 million euros. There are now even public debates that we may even have to privatise some aspects of security. I don't know if we're going this far. If I return, under what circumstances are we lowering the defence budget? We have Iraq, we have Syria, we have an Islamic state, we have Boko Haram in Nigeria, we have Libya. The Islamic country where daily heads are falling, where people are stoned daily, where they live and where they are predicted to be burned, has just today been announced that the Islamic State will ensure that 500 000 refugees come from Libya and other countries to Europe in the coming months to shake Europe's security. The Balte worry, the Poles worry, the Italians deeply, deeply worry about what's going on, because among these refugees, the fighters in the Islamic State are coming back. The Baltic states are increasing budgets, the other NATO countries are increasing budgets, China is arming itself, Russia is arming itself, it has raised the defence budget by 20%, it has attacked the sovereign country of Ukraine, it is also a threat, all countries are arming themselves, we are disarming, we are lowering the defence budget and we are discussing whether we will give the same sex the right to adopt children or not. A truly high-quality and effective defence policy. But it's everyone's abilities, or everyone's priorities. Clearly, security in our country is far from a priority, and according to what I hear mainly from Desus, what is the defence budget and what is being bought, investment and, above all, what is technology, the Slovenian army is far behind. The only thing that could somehow lift up was Patria, and this matter had to go to waste just so that Janez Jansho could be beaten and sent to prison. The other thing they said in Nat is that this is really the project that the Slovenian army needs, and about which the profession was as uniform as it was, it went into the francs, according to local words. And now, with these 338 million in defence, we are still far from that 2% of GDP. This means around €700 million to the current GDP. Look, the second time you go to the NATO Summit, don't walk around with a fig in your pocket, say, "Look, guys, girls, we're not going to do this anymore, we're not going to give 2%, we're not going to give 20% for an investment." It's not like we're going up there and they're looking at us ugly, but what are you Slovenians doing? If the President promises something, it must be respected. Come on, if he promises the Slovenian people, they'll forget it in two months anyway. But Stoltenberg won't forget. And I really can't wait for a conversation between Mr. Cerar and Mr. Webber when you go to them. When he says, "Look, guys, this is what you promised me, but the budget is like this." It's not working. It's not working. As far as infrastructure is concerned, it's the same. Here I am listening to how this budget is invested, but as far as maintenance and road construction are concerned, it goes down 30 million euros. Those 17 bridges obviously remain closed. If there will be two bridges, I have spoken with the Director of the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads, we would need about 190 million for urgent work. What they've got will be for fixing those holes. Some say it won't be for the lights soon, and so on. But this is just the investment attitude of this government and this coalition. Not to mention that you are lowering entrepreneurship and competitiveness by EUR 45 million and within this 3 million, which I am very surprised to say, given that Mr. Restorationek was Director of Term Olimije in Podčtrtek, which is a school case, but how to go to tourism in Slovenia, I thought that tourism would flourish a little bit, he said so himself, and now 3 million down. Much has already been said about the Ministry of Education and teaching aid. I do not know whether we are still a parliamentary democracy, but the Education Committee accepts that it has instructed the Government or the Minister to provide 4 million for additional learning aid. The government overtakes this decision, the coalition votes there around 20 January, for the last time on the committee differently. Obviously, we don't even stick to that anymore, which is what is being adopted here in Parliament. We're going to have amendments, but in 9.8 billion in the budget, it's a problem to move a few million. Then let's say that the government adopts the budget, we are wasting our time here this day to debate that we are preventing the surest from making that budget valid. There will be no amendments, anyway. But I was disturbed by what Dr Lipitzer said at the outset, that this budget indicated that somehow in this sense she said that they would not resent anyone and that it would be roughly the same redistribution. Let me just finish. I hope you'll start acting on this if you want to pull this Slovenia somewhere. Let me conclude with the words of former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, who once said: "If you try to make compromises always and everywhere, you may be popular and you will achieve nothing."
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u115	Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u116	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. As I mentioned earlier, we are discussing this most important document for 2015. Perhaps I am also a little sad that today is not with us, Mr Minister, of course, all respect for the Madam Secretary. I'm aware that this document, which is quite thick, has put a lot of effort into it. We have heard today, but I am not entirely sure from either the Prime Minister or the Minister-designate that we are at the bottom. I think we're at the bottom of a pit, all together, when we're talking about finance for this year. It's the end of those beautiful words we may have spoken five months ago. This has also been felt today in this hall that we will soon face the reality of the situation in this country, whether we want it or not. That this document is prepared, my opinion as a non-expert for finance is that this document is unstable. Why am I saying this? For the first time, I am saying this because it seems to me that the ministers who are part of this government probably did not negotiate well with the Minister of Finance or with the Prime Minister or the Minister or the Prime Minister did not listen to them. Let me just say one case: I'm not going to all the areas, it's the police area. For 5 months, when I am a Member, I listen to the problems of the police in all areas, and I firmly hope that the Minister who runs this important area knows their problems. Here I wonder whether he knows their problems or whether the minister has actually not listened to what this area needs this year. Economics, education, social. I also argue that we will be very unsuccessful when we draw on European funds, because we do not have enough of our own resources. Let me put out a rail track that we've been talking about a lot for six months. When the Minister had a hearing, he said that this was a project that was very far away, then we gradually started talking about it, and in the last 14 days we all listened to the committees together, that this project was a fact that we would go into this project, that we would report it, that we could draw on European funds, but the money that was supposed to be provided by a strategic partner is in the mist. That's why I think this thing is very unstable, and I'm saying that this document is unstable. When I said that there must have been a lot of effort in this document, honourable Members and Members, we have also heard today that this 2015 budget balance is directed so that all of us are equally dissatisfied. I certainly can't agree with that. Certainly dissatisfaction with those who have had problems for many years, who have fewer and fewer problems each month. They will certainly be satisfied tomorrow, when this balance is adopted, those who have been receiving funds from the state budget for many years, from various agencies, funds that are certainly unfair, which should be allocated to someone else, social, education, and pensions to others. Dear Members and Members, until we get to that area, we will have greater problems every month in this National Assembly, of course Mr Minister with the secretary in charge. That is why I certainly cannot support this rebalancing tomorrow, but I would like to appeal to a coalition that, in my opinion today, is slightly outspoken in order to take tomorrow into account and also to vote on the amendments that we will present today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u117	The word is Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u118	Thank you so much for saying that. I am a bit limited in time, so I will only touch on one area, namely education. The balance in the field of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport embodys the password All are the same. This password is yet to be known from the All-Slovenian uprisings, and we could say that quite without reservation it is still valid today. Why? We are witnessing the same policies as we have already been trained, both in the field of education and in the area of the entire budget. And even in this area, the funds earmarked are hunting for the 3% budget deficit, which is not justified by any logic, even economic logic, not only but only the political dictatorship of Brussels, Berlin and their extension, which is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as far as the government could even call it. In fact, ministerial functions exist on paper, but in practice we are dealing only with some kind of colonial administration or colonial administrators who do everything but for the benefit of their own people. The consequences of all of this will be quite far-reaching, very harmful – even irreparable in the area of higher education. But even if we consider the long-term consequences of tightening the university's belt, which leads to its collapse, the budget rebalancing does not drink water on short lines. It is clear, and this has been repeatedly confirmed by the Minister herself, that at least EUR 25 million is missing from the education budget. Given that the government, as a drunkard, is rounding up the counterproductive criteria of the fairly cynical European Stability and Development Pact, we can expect where these funds will come from. We've seen this in practice, these are new and new cuts. It will, of course, take short access to education for all and the quality of public education, which is just before it collapses, and this is also pointed out by employees in the verticals of public education. And there is no citizen, except the neglect of those who are the richest who would not feel it. Students, students – they are subject to that fundamental right, the foundation, an idea that supports education as a public good, as a right, it is to make their own way of life, to pursue some happiness in life. Students, their families, so they hang tuition fees, we could face some of the starting points to draft a new law on higher education this week, a few days ago. They've upset the public a lot, and that's the right thing to do. What we find in these starting points is a rather direct war forecast for everything that remains good in our education. But what about the weakest ones, that's how we know. According to the scholarship fund, the spoils are seized and the funds for the study aid are either the Committee's conclusions or not the Committee's conclusions are abolished. Under the line, of course, the whole society is at a loss. Even if we agree to a meaningless and counterproductive policy of belt tightening, it is a direct suicide grip on the social subsystem, which is that essential basis for any developmental perspective. Its most important work is economic sovereignty. If we move on, the 7 million-and-a-half-euro cut into research programmes and projects also expresses some colonial prospect. We can see right away that the error in this area is double and deep. Firstly, the funds are falling and, as in any other area, less music is for less money. But be careful, here we are dealing with investment in research, and smaller investment in research means reduced capacity for development. And poor development can only lead to a poor future. And an additional nearly 3-million cuts in funding for young researchers and the still unregulated area of co-financing of a doctoral study are also not negligible impacts. Secondly, those assets, which remain, are lit with a huge shovel as subsidies to the economy, it is said, in the pit of some private profits. Not to research for the general social benefit or to increase labour productivity, which can only be the basis of a development breakthrough. No, no, no. Millions and millions go to applied research to measure the interests of individual capitalists, their short-term profits and to promote competitiveness or competitiveness. Where public interest is here, it's a little ironic, given that we're talking about an education area that's supposed to be looking for things. This public interest remains deeply hidden. In order to allocate this money instead of individual capitalists to basic research in the service of the whole society, from which private people could then draw funds for their ambitions and market participation, no one thinks so. At least no one in our government. But that really shouldn't surprise us. Why? In the field of economy, we have seen that our colonial administrators, whom we know as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, do not, after all, come to terms with the creation of a sovereign economy that is prepared or capable of financing its own applied research that does not need public money injections. Comrades and comrades! Such comprehensively flawed policies, which lead directly to failure, are virtually impossible to recover, even through an instrument of amendment, in this case of amending the budget. But still, in the United Left, we want and propose that at least one point we don't go down completely or at least try to do that and spend an additional 3 million dollars on scholarships. If the government's going to hell all over the list, at least what the coalition can do is to at least slightly protect the socially disadvantaged and talented students by supporting our amendment. Of course, we will not support or support the balance. Thank you for your word. I hope that today, or perhaps tomorrow, the area of health and other things will turn out, but at this point, unfortunately, I don't have time for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Is there any other desire to discuss it? Please sign up. Here you go, Dr. Keating. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, chairman. A respected choir! It's been said a lot. I'm gonna start with some news I got this morning. In the morning, a special police unit collapsed. Sorry. The armored vehicle in the Trojans broke down. I hope the boys went for donuts at least. It's kind of a thing, if we're a little more serious, to which we've been alerted, which we've been dealing with. I started a debate myself. The police were saving. There are some real needs. We know the state of the equipment. And it is obvious that this coalition is in the interest or at least the main work that the privatisation of this sector will take place. For me, the budget is not just "the backbone of the implementation of macroeconomic policy", if I quote colleague Simono, for me the budget is essentially tectonics in the architecture of the country or society, then I will return to it. There's been a lot of talk. The Minister of Justice said that this budget is highly infrastructure and investment-oriented. I very much like to struggle with the smart specialisation strategy that Mr Rest is probably already full of suitcases. And if I read this budget, look, I really read it in detail, the methodology from the bottom, from the back, from the front, and so on. I don't see it here. I see the big picture here, and so do our experts, some development into underdevelopment. I don't see any breakthroughs in this budget. He could have gone after some individual ministries, and my colleagues mentioned it before me. I can only mention one matter that affects me very much as a spatial sociologist, housing policy is one of the five priorities of the department, and we will adopt a national housing programme. The Ministry, which has a budget, if I look correctly, in over half a billion, will devote a million dollars to spatial planning and housing activities and 0.0006% to space management. Just one fine example. Another example, this budget is also insanely imposed. We still have this feudalisation of ministries. For example, I went to watch the Civil Society item, which we find almost half of at one-third of the ministries. Why is that important? Because for me civil society is actually a fourth branch of power, because the media are owned in some way not excessively good. Since I am running out of time, I will quote from the book Tektonika in architecture, a famous text of Frampton, as follows: "But construction remains in its nature in a substantive manner tectonic, not stenographic, and we could say that, first of all, the act of construction, not discourse, based on the surface, volume and floor," if I quote Corbusier's three reminders to the gentlemen of architects, because Bane knows what I'm talking about, "so we can say that construction is ontological in its character, and that the built-up form is presence, not something that would represent that absent." [[Incomprehensible]] With Martin Heideggra's terminology, so Frampton, we could think of it as a thing, not a sign. This budget is not yet a sign for me, let alone a new breakthrough. And this new policy, which was so discussed before and around the elections, is unfortunately just an old policy with a new haircut by Mitch styling. Unfortunately, this is also reflected in this budget and, as such, I cannot support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Tanko. Are there any more debaters?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u122	I don't know. Thank you so much for saying that. Now you're in charge of the session, and I don't know, you gave me your word. See, as regards the preparation of this budget and, above all, the government's presentation positions and also the discussions of the coalition Members lead to some conclusions. First, it must have happened for the first time that this rebalancing is not a coalition project because they are as diversified as the coalition groups' views on this budget as they should be. In fact, one of the coalition parties made their views and also proposed a diversion to the budget. And I think that, from this introduction and the positions of the coalition's members, this budget cannot be optimal, because things are not set up in a way that will fully stand and have the support of the coalition. The second conclusion that follows from this is that this coalition has an unknown problem with economic growth. Economic growth is higher than originally planned in the budget. The deficit is also higher. So the things that are the basis for this budget are simply not going together. It cannot happen that higher economic growth generates lower revenues, that higher economic growth also results in greater deficits if the coalition, the government behaves and acts rationally and tries to adapt to the conditions in which we are. Look, you're talking about that there's a lot more money for investment. I think that in the introduction Mrs Alenka Bratušek listed hundreds of investment items where the value is zero. And another 10 items with a value of between €49 and €10 000. And capital investment items are just something. Budgeting technology shows that it is not about consistent behaviour and that many things do not. For example, I, who has been in the National Assembly for a long time, think that this will be the 15th budget that we are considering in the National Assembly, about the same amount of rebalancing at that time, and about so many final accounts, I know how these investments are building, how they are dynamically unfolding, whose items are in the State budget just to make Members happy because they are written there. The reality is completely different. I know from this budget some cases when investments are completed up to 90%. Road sections, too. 90% of one longer section that is being built is finished, by 10% of that, because it is about 200, 300, 400 meters, and we are already on the budget of this item for the fifth time. Do you think that the approach is rational to leave dozens of items in the budget unfinished? I speak for road sections, I speak for sports facilities, cultural projects, I speak for any matter in this budget. Any logical farmer or worker, whoever first made sure that complete road sections were completed so that the buildings would be completed and put into use. Thus we have for five or more years some things that are unfinished, unfinished production. You imagine anyone in the economy to afford to have unfinished production for not knowing how many billions of euros, as is the case in this budget. List items in which there is not enough to keep the whole system closed and completed and would also be used and compared to what needs to be added to do so. You will see, much more is incomplete production in essence, as can be seen from this budget and as some of you may be able to detect it. I can count a whole bunch of sections, I know them myself, they're in my area and so on. I think there's still a few things to say. You have decided to make substantial use of this budget in municipal budgets on both items, on appropriate spending and on that part of co-financing. The explanation in the ZUJF municipalities is incorrect. It says there will be positive effects for the congregations I think 17 million. Only in the title of principal will this year be the fallout in the financing of municipalities or this appropriate spending, as we call it, some 40 million euros. 20 euros per capita, times the population, and you can calculate how much this is coming. Not to say there will be even less funds on the co-financing line. Basically less, halve if not even more. By cutting off the municipalities, you will actually cut off the main investment work in this country. The municipalities are the main investor. No one in this country invests more than the congregations. If the free funds of the municipalities are reduced, the part that is devoted to investment will not be for its own participation to run for European projects to come forward. Long-term problem. And what still seems a particular problem to me, I don't think anyone told the mayors, among those who negotiated that it wasn't a one-year cut. If you were to reduce the costs to the municipalities for one business year, you would do so in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget. ZUJF municipalities means a more permanent reduction of funds for municipalities. That's why you went to this special marriage. This means that the next budgets of the municipalities will be affected and that there will also be significantly less opportunities for municipalities to draw on European funds. This is going to be one of the biggest problems. From this budget, there is nowhere to be seen which is supposed to accelerate this economic growth. One item is not detected to promote economic growth. The government is very pleased to say how economic growth has grown, how it has risen, what positive effects it has had. This was also said by the former government of Alenka Bratušek. However, when we asked what action was the one that led to economic growth, there was no answer to that question. I also ask now what are those measures taken by the government over the past six months that have raised economic growth. Are these the recommendations of GRECO, which go into law, judicial legislation? Are these John Janša’s relief procedures? Are these any other laws in this area? Or do you have any specific measures behind you that caused this? Today, it has been repeatedly mentioned in the debate that there will be something else to be done on the additional collection of taxes, and this has been done both in the discussions of some government officials and some of the groups of Members. Taxing our citizens is our own problem. I think that in Austria, up to 17,000 euros in income are all exempt, and this is already the upper middle class. Taxation, which is around 27% there. I would not like to compare myself with Caracas, but with some other exotic countries where the military shares toilet paper. I'd like to compare myself with my neighbors, with the Austrians. If we are already summarizing the practices, then let us take stock of the practices that are in force in Berlin, which are in force in Brussels, which are in force in Vienna. There are those who have the standard of living who are happy to have a country. With us, however, many coalition Members and even the Secretary of State have said that no one is satisfied with this budget. Can you imagine? A government project as important as the budget, and the government boasts the coalition that no one is satisfied with it. Then why do we have a country, but why do we have a government? I think the government should come with a budget with which the vast majority would be pleased. Not that you're bragging that no one's happy with him and that's why he's good. The budget would be good if we could boast about it: in higher education, in the student population, in youth projects, in investments, in social services, in health care and elsewhere. At that time, we would say that the budget is good and that the government has responded appropriately. Thus, we have on the one hand a great deal of economic growth and on the other hand an even greater deficit, such as economic growth. And this budget is also partly due to the fact that past work is being paid or the work of the past government and past governments that have done absolutely nothing in the field of coordination with the situation. As everything worked out, all things were governed solely by borrowing and maintaining the deficit. This is the problem with this budget and these matters. It's interesting that nothing happens at all. No one is satisfied, no higher education, no unions, no united left, no protests, no ring around the National Assembly, no strikes on the main road in front of the National Assembly, not in front of the government, not anywhere. Interesting! Nobody's happy and nobody's protesting. And we're either bragging or talking about how you managed to calm down the street and the situation in the country. Unbelievable! You killed the country in fact with this budget and with your previous actions. And this government and the former government and so on. People have given up. I would expect the normal government to prepare solutions that constitute a breakthrough, which means satisfaction, which means development, but not gratitude for the fact that no one is satisfied with the budget. This is an approach typical of revolutionary countries. Nobody's happy there either. In developed countries, budgets, I don't know, relate to the country, to many projects with this satisfaction to the country and to the budgets they have. It's a measure of dissatisfaction with us. And if everyone's unhappy, then that's all right. Bravo! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Matthew Vraničar, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Once again, I would like to highlight the discussions or arrangements with the municipalities and answer the question of what this budget means for economic growth. As regards the discussions with the municipalities and the Law on Intervention Measures to Balance Their Public Finances, I must stress once again that it was a long-term negotiation that resulted in several hundred measures. A law to reduce the costs of the operation of municipalities in the field of the exercise of the legal obligations of the municipalities was required by associations of municipalities. As early as 2012, the first such experiment was not completed. Then in 2013 and 2014 again. And it wasn't finished either. Now the will has been gathered, and measures have been taken, the first set of measures to this extent, so that we can submit a proposal for a law that is in line with the municipalities, including the National Assembly for confirmation. Whether you accept it or not, you will decide tomorrow after the debate. It is a matter of permanently abolishing certain costs or reducing certain costs for the performance of their duties. This was the request of the congregations. It is also a requirement of the municipalities to continue this process. We therefore agree to take additional measures by the end of June to reduce the cost of working municipalities, which will be once again permanent and not one-year-old nature. On this basis, it will also be possible to approximate the actual costs that the municipalities are working under and the average amount that they receive in order to carry out these tasks. However, this is only one part of the tasks performed by the municipalities, the other part is an investment. And for this investment part of the municipality they provide funds by collecting compensation for the use of building land, by transferring from the state budget under Article 21 of the Law on the Financing of Municipalities, which amounted to 22 million in 2014, of which part is paid in this year, part is paid last year. For this year, we have agreed to receive 11 million from this title, and the rest will be taken into account in next year's negotiations. But we also provide more than €470 million of additional investment transfers to the municipalities this year. I mentioned earlier in one of my interventions that municipalities receive a total of 487 million investment transfers from the state budget this year, of which 11 million are based on the Law on Community Financing, Article 11, of the other on other bases. Most are European funds and part of other transfers provided by individual ministries. The conditions for economic growth through the budget can be provided in two ways, either through the overall direction of the budget or by specific measures. I submit that the overall orientation of the budget by providing more investment and investment transfers is generally geared towards supporting or supporting the continuation of economic growth within the scope of the opportunities offered by the public financial situation. Finally, so many times has this statement been mentioned today that we are all equally dissatisfied with this budget, that I have to comment on it and put it in context. It is not that general satisfaction is measured by how unhappy we are with the budget. But the fact that everyone in some way has the same negative comment on the budget suggests that we were equally strict towards all budgetary users when we measured possible spending rights. If one budgetary user was satisfied and the other did not, it means that we favoured one budgetary user compared to another. And that would be bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Secretary of State! No negotiations were conducted entirely with the congregations. You have met with several representatives of the Association of Municipalities, and procedures have not been carried out with the municipalities. I think you're going to have a relatively big problem in this part. Because in the way that this was prepared, it is probably difficult to ensure that these measures are proportionate to all the municipalities. Perhaps those who have negotiated are slightly better conditions, and will then show up in the implementation of the budget. The second thing is, it is obvious that social peace in this country is only when the deficit is driven to a limit. If the deficit were not at the limit, minus about 3%, there would probably still be some kind of protest. However, the problem is that obviously the individual things that are in this budget are not consistent. And also with regard to the preparation of the budget, there is a major problem in the budget. We've been doing community projects with those 11 projects for three years. And in three years, despite having all the necessary building permits and so on, it was not possible to place them in the state budget and also to issue decisions to start investments. Now it's probably under the same conditions that this is going to be possible for once. Now I am also asking the government how it will intervene in this case. There is likely to be no significant change in these 11 cohesion projects. Practically nothing. They are contracts, they are redemptions, they are services, they are building permits, the contractors have been chosen for two years and nothing has happened. Things will probably be released now, and this will be with the same administration that stopped it, and let this be a great advance for this government. The problem is that when we look at these budgets and act like there are some strange decisions, there are incomplete investments, that investments do not close or deliberately stop, the funds fail to be used, and then this is in some other way classified in some other budgets and variants. Just how you approached the municipalities, however, is certain that there will be a reduction, in the long term, in view of reducing the use of European funds, as there will also be a fall in the ownership or ability of municipalities to participate in projects. And that's gonna be a big problem in the long run.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u127	Thank you very much. I see there's still a desire to discuss it. Come on, please, check in. I'm sorry, okay, then the replica. Then it's Mr Branko Grimes' turn. Here you go, Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Secretary of State, I do not know now whether you are knowingly deceiving or not to look at what was going on at the meeting of the home committee, where we have dealt with the so-called Law on Measures to Balance the Public Finances of the Communities. There was so much to see and to hear that it was inconspicuous. And if I go any further, we also received a letter a day ago from the community of municipalities to include the so-called amendment to Article 30, when it speaks of the insurance which was cohesively agreed, but obviously by the government consciously thrown out. Here's a letter. And please don't fool this national council, when we know things, we've been following them, we've been working together, but especially the public. Things were not arranged or carried out as promised. I'm not even talking about the comments of individual congregations.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Grimes has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u130	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you. The acts before us are supposed to allow for faster development, as stated in the introduction, in the forecast. If we really want to preserve what we have in Slovenia, we should first establish Slovenia within the framework of at least being as interesting for entrepreneurs as neighbouring Austria. For this and all that is spoken of today is based on some figures that do not actually have some real basis. As long as what is happening for Slovenia is the most important in the long term, the most productive part of the population is moving to the neighbouring country, as the most productive part of the population, I think young successful entrepreneurs and all the other young families that are now in Gorenjska, Koroška, Styria, everywhere there is this process, in large numbers crossing the border, and until this process stops, everything else is drum against the wall. Therefore, the principle of how to make these things should be completely different. We should put in place a legal framework to make Slovenia at least as interesting for entrepreneurship as the neighbouring country. If the government is capable of doing this. And everything else should be subordinated, and of course, to the principle of a good master, that you should not be making an account not only for the first generation, but for some of the next generations, which is what you like to do. And that's why we're where we are. Of course, such suggestions as are now here on the table do not bring any of them. That is why there is no development here — not budget, not law, not anything. But it's just going to be a continuation of the current state of affairs. And what's worse, what's ahead of us now is just an introduction to what might only solve one part of this situation that I'm talking about, and it's only on a nominal level. And it'll probably come out in the fall, because we'll have another rebalancing. What is now is far too small and too late to make any real difference. And that is what all of you who explain today, from the Prime Minister to the Members and Members of Parliament, know very well. What was agreed upon is, well, one fine expression for this is the cow’s trade, such as what happened to the congregations. I don't know, it's going to be like this, but then it will be, and in fact, everyone who came out of the negotiations, because I talked to people who were directly involved there, nobody believes they're actually going to do what they formally agreed. Then what's all this for? They seem to be doing something. It's like that joke about some very well-known representative of the transition left, who likes to stand on the train and run, even though the train is parked at the station, to make the impression that it's going on. One very interesting thing happened in Slovenia. This perfect silence. When there's no more protests, no one suggests anything, no one throws anything, no one even says anything out loud. One would say that we should give a little research about where the unions have disappeared, that nothing bad happened to them, or to all the others who should be breaking up with their voices right now. Of course that doesn't happen. On one occasion, however, they shouted when they were throwing everything in the streets, that they already knew what the government was preparing, even though none of that government was prepared at the time. Today, when things are a thousand times worse in practice than they already knew that the government is preparing, the ones that are at the time, no one is doing anything. You know, it's a little bit like that famous anecdotes from Arabia, about a year ago, when then dictator Omar asked what people said when they raised taxes, they said, "They're protesting." "Oh," he said, "we'll raise taxes." And the second time he puts his taxes in, he comes up and says, "What is it now?" They say, "The crowd is furious." He says, "We'll raise taxes." And then they came to the third, and they said, "Now it's just silence." "Whoa," he said, "now we have to lower taxes immediately." Because when people shut up, people usually only deal with real problems and then things move from a dead spot. And it all shows we're on it. But obviously no one thinks about it. Above all, we should think about what I said at the beginning. We are witnesses to one process that is more destructive even than the debt itself. This is moving what is in the most positive sense the national elite, to neighbouring countries. Businesses are moving, successful entrepreneurs are moving, young families are moving. And if you want to stop this, you need to make a framework for entrepreneurship, for better development than a neighbouring comparable country has. None of this has been done, which is why there are proposals for the acts that are before us today. inappropriate, inadequate, too late and too little. And that goes for everything from the first to the last.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Any other wishes for a debate? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The vote on the general part of the proposal for a rebalancing will be held tomorrow, 11 a.m. 2., in the context of the votes. We are moving on to the specific part of the proposal for a rebalancing. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. We are moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 18. 2. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are moving to a budget user of 1537, the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians in place and around the world, and to a discussion on the amendment tabled in this budget consumer. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Support for Slovenians in place and around the world and the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Mr. Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u132	Thank you for your word, Madam President. In a way, I'm surprised that there's no listening in the coalition to support this proposed amendment. In particular, because of the fact that our people are incarcerated and around the world, for which the budget in recent years has been largely reduced rapidly from 2013 to 2014, with the latest rebalancing by almost 20% and with this re-incision from the planned 2015 budget in the 2015 rebalancing period by 9%, which means 30% in two years. I am surprised, however, that, on the other hand, you are making an amendment to the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Nationality, which is said to be nationalities carrying out their mission in our country, and that you are returning the item to the original value provided for in the 2015 budget. You write in your explanation that it was a technical error and that you are correcting a technical error with this amendment. Given that this is a technical error, I suggest that, even in the case of our people around the world and instead, you realize that you have made a technical mistake, which you can correct by supporting this amendment that we have tabled. I do not imagine that we are putting into the unequal position of people living as nationalities in our country, it is clear for the Hungarian and Italian communities in part also for the Roma people, and on the other hand our people who live in the place and in the world. We are making practically one big difference between these two items. Therefore, I ask you all to consider, when voting, whether for these few dozen percentages, which do not affect this budget, which is increasing by 500 million, is worth making such an unfortunate technical flaw. And I would like to ask that we fix the technical flaw in the case of our locals as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Do you still want to talk about it? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budget user 1540, the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Nationality, and the debate on the amendment tabled in this budget consumer. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Support to minorities and the amendments of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Mrs. Maria Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u134	Thank you for your word. The Social Democrats support the proposed amendment, with which the funds for their smooth operation are being returned to the national communities. This is the amount of EUR 228 000 743. Let me remind you that the basic provisions on the protection of the Italian, Hungarian national communities and the Roma communities are enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and in ratified international legal acts. The sub-programme therefore provides for co-financing of the programmes of the umbrella organisations of the Italian and Hungarian national communities and the Roma communities in Slovenia. The resources of the Office of Nationality remain the same, while the Office of Slovenians in place and around the world is much smaller. The projected reduction is 8.8%. Social Democrats are calling on the Government to commit itself to doing everything possible to ensure that Slovenians are least affected by the reduced funds. However, we propose to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in place of the Slovenian Government, that it temporarily implements the most urgent programmes, in particular cultural programmes, which are essential for the preservation of identity. We expect that the situation will soon change and that additional resources will be made available in the next budget for the effective functioning of the Slovenians in place and around the world. At the same time, if I speak, I would ask that we could sum up the same in terms of the problem of maintaining the Idrija mine, where we wanted to make an amendment, but we were assured by the Ministry of Economy that they would arrange it in their field in the Ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Any other wishes for a debate? Yeah. Here you go, Dr. László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u136	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Let me stress once again what I have already said in the position of the Group of Members. In the case of support from the Italian, Hungarian and Roma communities, these are activities that have already been agreed upon in the phase of the preparation of the coalition contract and are activities that are fully necessary for the so-called and so-called minimal operation of all these communities. In fact, there has been a mistake in drawing up the draft budget, which both the Ministry and the coalition have come to know and therefore have drafted an amendment. I did not deliberately make a call at the previous amendment, although I said in my introduction or position that I deeply regret that there is no support for the previous amendment, but not because I will tell our amendment there is support, but because it would be very appropriate to place the activity of Slovenians in substitution and throughout the world in such a light that it allows for the preservation, existence and development, that is, for purely substantive reasons, but not on the basis of some reciprocity that I will say in no way, are never transparent and perhaps the most optimal. I will support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budget user 1714 Police and to the debate on the amendments tabled by the two sub-programmes in this budget user. First, I am putting to the debate the sub-programme Public Order and General Security of People and Property and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the amendment of the Alliance's Group of Ambassadors, Alenka Bratušek. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u138	Thank you so much for saying that. I have already said how much comes to an individual citizen on the expenditure side of the budget. For a four-member family, this amounts to more than 20,000 euros. I hope you're aware of what it means to extend the reaction time to police action, given that the data is known to increase domestic violence. And if, on the other hand, we are looking at a proposal to build up information systems because they don't even have some kind of ministry, then I really can't understand why you can't support this amendment. It's sad, and it's embarrassing.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u140	Thank you very much. We're with this unfortunate police force, who don't know if it's ours or not, what we're gonna do with it. Above all, it is unfortunate that I have the feeling that ministers and ministers in the field would do something else, and we would still fight, but when the Minister of Finance comes, he cuts in and says: a lot of debate. We heard the Secretary of State earlier, who said the following sentence: for everyone, the same. Please, I used to say it can't be the same for everyone. He can't. He just can't. And as long as it's the same for everyone, it's bullshit. And thank God, we have the National Assembly, which can also fix something mainly because the Ministry of Finance is pursuing only one goal: only the revenues, you know, are these unfortunate 3% that are in between. They don't care about everything else. But the ministers in the field have a serious problem. And with the police, without the Minister having a problem now, the leaders, the chiefs of police, and not least, the police themselves have a problem, which is in fact at some point, that they don't know whether they should even believe in this country, which doesn't even give them the basic conditions. The key problem that has arisen mainly because of this, for many years there has been more or less, this has already been concluded on the committees and discussed and identified, but it has to be repeated, years and years have not really been maintained and they have not given enough resources for some maintenance to ultimately have only some investment support. Not even that there were no investments or investment maintenance was satisfactory. Look, I know Ljubljana, I don't know what it's like elsewhere, but when I went to the third floor of the Fortress to the crime department, I realized that they didn't have any chairs the same to each other. Because it's all wrapped up everywhere and it's a shame to look at it because you don't know exactly what it looks like. When I sat there when one of the criminals invited me, the other had to go out because it was a disruptive factor because we couldn't even talk anymore. In short, it's just that years and years just don't do what should actually be done. What my buddy Duck said today that he got the information that one car broke down on the Trojans again, that's no big deal. We're all used to that. Almost, but it's going to happen just like in the movies, you know, the guy who drives 140 kilometers an hour, the police don't follow him anymore, because he doesn't have enough fast cars to catch it all. I'm banalizing, but I'm doing this on purpose because we're just not mature enough to decide and make a line and say that's just enough. Look, there's a police station that's got new spaces, and we haven't been giving enough money for years and years, because we're saying it's going to be the second year, so it's going to be the second year, and it's going to be the second year and the next. And that leaves 10 years. Then we hear once again from the Secretary of State that the cut must be justified on all the resources equally. Look, at the mass of the budget as it is, with the proposal that we have made, and it is more or less very clear, because we cannot so flatly say that a million, two, three will be enough, but we simply stem from those facts that they have stated themselves, how much money they really lack, so that they can even come to the ground that they work normally. What's even more important is that I'm reading on the website of the daily news media today, where the minister herself says that she can't really stand this ceiling of action with this minus. He just can't. However, the colleague of Christmas spoke there earlier, I heard him say that we know that the budget is not appropriate for everyone, but that we will then see over a year where this can be done or where we can "flash" and we will redistribute it a little. Please don't redistribute yourself from one item to another! In fact, it is necessary to know and determine in advance, because one of the basic rules for a budget-maker is that he is able to plan properly. If he knows that it is a fate, because it is a state-of-the-art ministry, because it is the security of the Slovenes and the Slovenians, because it is essentially one of those activities that, in fact, must work at least outside of a hundred, but thousands of percent, then it is more than clear that this means must be provided. The government is not even dealing with the question of why not give the police so much money, but explain why not take it away from those proposed items. This is the funniest thing about the whole story of these amendments. I'll give you an example. Of course, it is normal for Members not to propose to increase by so much and so much budget, because it is the responsibility of the government and therefore the dynamics of the amendment are also set out by putting one item on another. And that's what I was saying at the beginning. Until the government decides and says that there are priorities and there is a need to provide sufficient resources, this is the case. But not to get the answers in the Government's own explanation that EU funding is already set forward – interesting for them, it must not be for the police – and to service the debt from these two items. Please, all the amendments that have gone through have gone from three, four of the same pieces and interestingly, the country has not failed, the EU has not defeated us, everything has happened, and in the end the matter has been settled. It is true, however, that more or less, the Minister has done well in the end when more or less, three or four months before the end of the budget, the budget is closed and the ministers are actually begging and asking for more work to be done. I just have to say the following here, I don't care anymore, it's a matter of ministers, whether they've done their job successfully and quickly enough in the course of the year to do what they've asked them to spend within the budget. See, this case that we had a rebalancing last year before the end, and then the balance was adopted and only 30% of the balance was spent – yes, I thought it was a conclusion that they had just figured out which accounts they were going to pay. More or less there is talk about how this is being wasted. In any case, we propose and offer an opportunity, given that the government cannot withdraw from this, and in its own way I understand it, and it is pointless to bluff here, that the government will say, "Yes, yes, of course we are grateful for this amendment." But you can make this correction to the Members. We can all make this right together. And it's even legal. Sometimes the government is even happy to do it, because within the hierarchy system they can't do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mrs. Tillen Christmas, eight seconds. Replica, eight seconds.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u142	Thank you. I would just point out that some of the possibilities are reassignment. However, I think that even at the time of the reign of ZaAB, when the budget was blocked at the beginning of the year, this was much more vehemently implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. I thank and conclude the debate. I am also putting into discussion the sub-programme Criminal Activity and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the 2030 budget user, the Ministry of Justice, and the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Alternative dispute resolution, support activities and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek. Anybody want to talk? Sir, Jani Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u144	One of the fundamental things that doesn't seem to suit the judiciary, or I don't know anyone else, I'm not going to look for a culprit, is that mediation in fact, as they all promote them, as everyone in some way takes them as some technique that reduces the type of lawsuits in court and two parties can get quite quickly and in a very different way, and with money, in fact, things can be arranged, in fact, they can be kept going on and on from the budget. And that seems like a kind of paradox to me. Ten years ago, funds were reserved or in the budget of the day, and today even the court of this mediation is really denying that we really want to have more lawsuits or that everything is being handled only in court. That is why I propose that, with such a solution, we solve the problem and return the mediation.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u145	Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the 2030 budget user, the Ministry of Justice, and the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Alternative dispute resolution, support activities and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek. I'm sorry. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Yeah, that was it. I'm sorry. We are moving to the budget user 2130, Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, and to the debate on the amendments tabled by the four sub-programmes to this budgetary user. First of all, I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Local Development Infrastructure and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group Alliance of Alenka Bratušek and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Susanna, Mrs. Susanna Beautiful Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u146	Thank you for your word, chairman. We take this rebalancing practice more than once. We take them by reducing their averages and we take them by reducing the volume of investment funds. We are reducing funds directly to municipalities that are actually the only driver of development in Slovenia. As a result of these proposed changes, small municipalities will have major difficulties in financing projects already under way, projects under way and the finalisation of which is planned in 2015. These are investment projects that represent an important added value for citizens of their rural quality of life. This is precisely why we have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party this amendment that some funds be allocated to smaller municipalities to enable them to complete the projects already started. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. I am putting into discussion a sub-programme for regional development and an amendment by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. You want a debate? Here you go, Mrs. Susanna Beautiful Chimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u148	Thank you for your word. With the proposed amendment, we propose to increase the resources to promote the development of problem border areas and to reduce the deviation of their development from the Slovenian average. Development in Slovenia is increasingly moving to larger urban centres, and remote areas of development are lagging behind in terms of infrastructure, agricultural land growth and also in terms of job offers at the place of residence. As an example, the situation in Haloza is increasingly critical in terms of the population and processing of agricultural land. Haloze is not the only critical area in Slovenia. With the proposed amendment, we want to provide additional resources for the development of problem border areas.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a debate? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. I am putting forward a sub-programme to promote initial and new investments and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Would you like to discuss it? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. I am also putting into discussion the Subprogramme Effective Marketing and Promotion of Slovenia and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group Alliance of Alenka Bratušek and the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. You want a debate? Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u150	You know we have a law in the procedure filed by the Alliance's Group. The Committee has also adopted a decision on support and is indeed going on to discuss it further. This means that there is a high probability that both the minister and the coalition have expressed themselves in this way that the WTO will be expelled from Spirit and will act alone. Now we have one serious problem. We have a budget ahead of us, a rebalance, and if all the words were very sincere both by the minister and by the coalition, we have a problem that they do not have the resources for what we are going to exclude. The WTO will not have sufficient resources. If we go to look, this WTO has in the past, because I can listen very quickly to the obvious when we were in the government, it wasn't so much money, and now we're just suddenly amending it. That's not true. In 2013, when we formed the government, we had to actually return with an amendment of 3 million to this same item within Spirit for the WTO, for promotion. And by doing so, we have made it possible for the WTO to do at least the basic things it does, because by these means, in fact, except for the fact that it will actually spend more than half of its wages and costs. And you know that the minister announced on the committee that one of the big things that is going to happen this year is Expo. Only Expo needs at least $2 million if it wants to make the truths of the WTO its own. Now the point of all this. I know that mathematics is going along this line, as the Secretary of State, the MF, has said, that it simply needs to be taken away from everyone equally. But look – tourism. Tourism is one of those who accidentally gave us 12% of GDP in the Republic of Slovenia. But if we do anything else for promotion, there will be more GDP in this country. And this is a very direct measure that you take to make one step of improvement. And if 3 million is too small for you to have 45,000 employees in tourism in the Slovenian space to build up what they are already doing, and with VAT they have taken back so many millions into the budget, then I no longer understand what is directly creating the conditions for some others to work. And this is the primary task of the government to do so. Therefore, I ask you in this place, until tomorrow, because we will vote on this tomorrow, seriously consider and discuss it. I know if you're going to ask the minister today, it has to be quiet and he can't say anything. Because it makes sense, I don't expect him to say, "Vege, I need this money urgently, Möderndorfer is right." No, he won't tell me that. But at least let the coalition understand that this amendment really is a direct contribution to the added value that we can get back through what we're going through. Expo is something that walks 20 million people who are only interested in tourism. It's just tourism. And if we take one slip from this Expa, we have made for Slovenia huge, with VAT, budget and other. So seriously consider whether it is worth more to keep your honor and difference, because you are different from all governments by now, or whether you will give 3 million for something that you will be voting for in a month for the WTO to start working. And if he wants to work, he has to work now. 18 people will arrive immediately in the WTO, but nothing needs to be reorganised to identify who they are all year round and make up, but they just have to carry out their tasks and promote them. And they know that. And they're gonna hire some more because they're too small anyway. So seriously consider this proposal. It's not a bluff, it's not a promotion. I'll allow you to submit your amendment, I agree, sign it, and say $3 million if that makes it easier. Just put $3 million on that line. On behalf of tourism, I ask you and on behalf of VAT, which will come back to the budget, because this will be the only concrete direct incentive by the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budget user 2330, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, and the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion a sub-programme for the Reconstruction, Care, Protection of Forests and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Would you like to discuss it? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user 2431, the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Infrastructure, and the debate on the amendments tabled, with two sub-programmes in this budget user. First of all, I am putting into discussion the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads and the five amendments of the Group of Ambassadors of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek and the eight amendments of the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Would you like to discuss it? Yeah. Here you go, Mrs. Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u152	Thank you very much. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are proposing an amendment to increase the sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of Roads, with an amount of EUR 200 000 for the reconstruction of the road Dole-Ponikva-Dolga Gora. It is a road that was included in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia in 2008 and is the worst rated under the SENSOR project for 2014 on the black list of roads. It should also be pointed out that this road is a compulsory road in the event of the closure of the Celje–Maribor motorway and was destroyed also at the time of the construction of the railway and the motorway. The total value of the total investment is 21 million. With the amendment, we only want to achieve that the road will finally be reconstructed after six years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Investment activity on railway infrastructure and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Will you discuss it? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to a budget user of 2550, the Ministry of Environment and Space, and to a debate on the amendments tabled to two sub-programmes in this budget user. First of all, I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Mines and the rehabilitation of mining damage and the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Will you discuss it? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am also putting into discussion the sub-programme of Water Management and the sub-programme of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Would anyone like to discuss it? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budget user 2611, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, and to the debate on the amendments tabled to the three programmes in this budget user. First, I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Family benefits and parental benefits and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u154	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Unfortunately, I have very little time. New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we propose and ask for support to increase the line Family benefits and parental benefits by €10 million. It's a children's allowance, and I believe no one today has such a hard heart to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Dr Anja Kopač Mrak, Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, applied for the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u156	Since it is such a sensitive topic, and we probably all agree that if there were not enough funds for children's allowances, this would be irresponsible by the Government, so I assure you that budget item 3556 provides as much funding as the 2014 implementation assessment and is slightly less than 3 million less than in the 2015 budget adopted. Given the importance of taking into account the income of the family for a child’s allowance, more resources are not expected here. It is similar in other items within this, namely, family benefits and parental benefits. We guarantee all rights and would not have agreed to the budget in any way if the funds needed to pay the basic family benefits were not provided.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate a sub-programme of the Fellowships and an amendment of the United Left Group. Anybody want to talk? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u158	Thank you very much. This amendment is the first of our developmental amendments. I mentioned him in my previous discussion. Instead of developing into the underdevelopment promoted by the current government, in the United Left we propose a transfer to scholarships, with another amendment coming later, to research. Why scholarships? Grants are crucial for ensuring access to education for all residents and residents and consequently for social and economic development. Highly educated citizens are essential if we are to develop a development model based on labour productivity rather than on indirect and direct reduction in labour costs. In addition, scholarships are important social corrections in students and students, while at the same time reducing the selection of students on the basis of material resources. This is a growing problem in education. They guarantee greater social mobility, justice. The Ministry estimates that the need for scholarships will be reduced – this is hard to convince anyone – as poverty in the education system is becoming increasingly clear, there is inequality. You don't even have to look too deep for something like that. In any event, at the economic recovery we receive from the government's forecast, the grant deserves at least a little higher funding, even as it has been going on for decades in general. In the United Left we propose an increase of 3 million, I can say 3 million, but still. On the other hand, we are spending more than €15 million to promote foreign direct investment. Of this, 6 million are intended for offensive marketing of Slovenia as "foreign direct investment locations" with informative educational and promotional activities. That was the last quote. What's the problem? The problem is that not only is it reckless, it's also harmful. This is followed by the advertising of privatisation and the conclusion of controversial links with so-called locusts. We know them as foreign financial funds and large monopolistic companies who want to make simple and rapid profits by privatising Slovenian state property. Most of the activities in this sub-programme, however, have negligible effects with regard to the objectives pursued, because they will not increase the level of so-called greenfield investments, but only the grasshopper Brownfield, taking over Slovenian companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Dr. Anya Digger Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u160	Thank you for your word. Thank you, United Left, for your concern. I certainly agree that grants are an important part of development policy. However, according to the level of the population with tertiary education in Slovenia, this may be difficult to connect with the scholarships themselves and to justify the need for a scholarship due to the degree of development and education, since in Slovenia we may be among the most developed countries. This is certainly not the result of having very good money or very much money for scholarship policy. However, the resources in the budget you have ahead of you are a little bit higher than last year's last year's budget, and the funds flowing from student work concession fees must also be taken into account under the second budget item under the appropriations. There is an additional 24 million there, almost 25 million, so at this point we estimate that the funds are sufficient for the rights that are now legally established. While we could talk about how we could have different legislation in this area, we are adopting the budget on the basis of currently defined legal rights and we cannot have the desire to do what we want in politics. If we are to adopt legal changes in this area, if we need additional resources, we should do so when this is done. Then, too, when we are preparing the law, we need to anticipate where and how we will finance it. At this point, however, we have sufficient resources for the rights envisaged and defined by law in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u162	Thank you very much. I would have responded by saying that it is likely that we do not already have a legal framework, but that we cannot raise scholarships because there is no legislative basis, the worst excuse I have ever heard, so that we can increase such an important thing as scholarships, but unfortunately I have faced it many times in the last half-years in this national assembly. I'm just going to say that if we were here to fix the situation in the field of scholarship policy, then we could do it, and even later, and today or tomorrow we're going to do it for the students we need. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u164	Let me comfort you. A policy is being prepared for deficit scholarships. And in this area, as with the grant law, changes have been envisaged, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u165	Thank you very much. If there is no further debate, I conclude the debate. I am putting into discussion a sub-programme for the protection of the mentally and physically affected and the amendment of the United Left Group. Is anyone going to discuss it? Yeah. Mrs. Violeta Tomic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u166	Thank you for your word. In the United Left, we propose to increase resources for the protection of persons with disabilities in physical and mental development. In our view, an increase is necessary because these funds have been stagnant for three years. Economic growth reached 2.5% this year, forecasts for 2015 and 2016 are favourable. On the Committee on Finance, a colleague from Desus pointed out that the budget balance is based on the Ministry's assessment of how much he would pay for disability and foreign care and assistance allowances. However, this programme also finances certain institutions that protect persons with disabilities in physical and mental development. Part of these institutions is private and part is owned by the Republic of Slovenia. We expect the United Left to allow them to develop, but not to maintain crisis financing for several years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Is there still a desire to discuss it? Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u168	Security and work centres have been more problematic operators within our ministry for a long time, and this year we have provided for the first time since the long five years of urban enlargement. We have provided 70 new users to the work centres by redistributing them so that we can work. But given the real situation, as it is, I'd probably want more money here, but we've secured the start of an emergency investment on Fat Ritch. And here too we have ensured a 20% increase in cities in the protection and work centres. So that the start is, and above all in future budgets, there will be a need to make sure that this is better. But it's one of the more vulnerable populations.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Is there still a desire to discuss it? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budget user 2613, the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for work, and the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the Sub-programme on Work Management and Control and the amendment of the United Left Group. Mr. Hanzek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u170	Thank you very much. In the United Left, we propose to provide half a million additional resources for the Labour Inspectorate. This would send a clear signal that the state will not tolerate violations of labour rights and health and safety regulations at work. This measure would not only have a symbolic effect but would allow the number of inspectors to increase by at least 10%. The situation in this area is impossible, the number of violations is increasing, the number of inspectors is decreasing. In 2011, there were 88 work inspectors, and in 2013 only 80 others. These 80 inspectors are controlled by almost 200,000 economic operators, so with a 10% increase we would have come up with what we had in 2011. However, according to the original budget, the funds are even falling. A further explanation as to where these funds came from. The funds shall be reduced in that part of the budget of the Ministry of Defence which does not affect the defence capacity of the State. The explanation of the budget states that visits to foreign delegations in Slovenia, travel of Slovenian delegations abroad, planning for defence cooperation and so on are financed from this sub-programme. According to 2014 these funds increase by 1.1 million to 7 million 200 000 euros. Even after the adoption of this amendment, these funds for international defence cooperation would increase by up to €600,000 in 2014.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Any other discussions? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budget user 2711, Ministry of Health, and the debate on the amendments tabled in this budget user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Investment investments at the secondary and tertiary level and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the amendment of the United Left Group. Mr. Hear, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u172	Thank you for your word. Good evening, colleagues and colleagues! As Mr Hainz has already said, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we propose to take one part of the country's resources for spatial and other conditions for the work of state authorities, namely the renovation of offices, and to take some of the resources for the management of dwellings, holiday units and garages and EUR 3 million for the construction of an emergency centre in Ptuj. As you all know, last week there was a meeting of the Health Committee, where we also voted to include the Ptuj Emergency Centre in the emergency centres network. Otherwise, it has been on this network since 2003, so I don't know why the government and the ministry have been moving for the last few years. It is also about the fact that part of the coalition recognized the need for the local environment of the lower Podravje. More than 120,000 Slovenes and Slovenes are connected to the General Hospital Ptuj. Since the emergency centre Ptuj was promised in the municipality of Ptuj from the beginning of 2003, in 2011 then Minister Marusič further committed to building an emergency centre on Ptuj, now I do not know why such a diversion. We are following the decision of the Health Committee, which was adopted by 15 votes in favour, that is to say that the Ptuj Emergency Centre should be included in the emergency centres network, with an investment cost of around EUR 3 million. However, I would also like to say that I have here today in my letter of support for the 17 mayors of lower Podravja, from the Mayor of the Municipality of Ptuj Miran Senčar, Mayor of Dornava Rajka Janžekovič, Mayor of Markovc Milan Gabrovac, Mayor of the Municipality of Destrnik Vladimir Vindiša, Mayor of the municipality of Gorišnica Jožef Kokota, Mayor of the municipality of Sv. Andraž v Slovenski goricah Darje Woodler, Mr Alojz Kavčić, Mayor of Juršinc, Mr Alojz Benk, Mayor of the Municipality of Trnovska vas, Mr Anton Butolen, Mayor of the Municipality of Žetale, Mr Anton Leskovar, Mayor of the Municipality of Kidričeva, Mayor of Podlohnik Mr Marka Mavčič, Dr. Darinka Fakin, Mayor of Majsperk Municipality, Mayor of Videm Mr. Friderik Bračić, Mr. Miran Vuk, Mayor of Zavrč, Mr. Alojz Sok, Mayor of the Municipality of Ormož, Mr. Jurija Bork, Mayor of the Centre of Drava and Mr. Janez Jurgeca, Mayor of the Municipality of Cirkulane. Despite various political or ideological views and political definitions, the population of the Lower Podravje has combined and recognized the need for the lower Podravje to organize an emergency centre in the Municipality of Ptuj. This follows the decision of the Health Committee, which was adopted unanimously, and I think we all want to increase funds for investment and development in the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u173	Thank you very much, Mr. Andrey Chuch. Any other discussions? Yeah. Here you go, Mrs. Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u174	Thank you for your word. In the United Left we propose to provide funds with the amendment for the Department of Disabled Youth at the General Hospital Nova Gorica, Stara Gora. This is the only facility to treat and care for the most physically and mentally affected people who need 24-hour care per day. The problem is that children are set up in 50-year-old pavilions. These are really the barracks from the asbestos plates, and you know how dangerous they are to health. You can see that in one of the contributions on TV. Although resources are provided under sub-programme 170301 for the construction of emergency centres, including at the General Hospital Nova Gorica. But there is no means to build the Old Mountain. The plans, according to the hospital's management, are long overdue. A fund-raising company has also been established. This is an old debt of the country which should be met at least now that the economic situation has improved slightly. However, the funds are being reduced in that part of the budget of the Ministry of Defence, which does not affect the defence capacity of the State. This sub-programme Membership in international organisations provides for the prioritisation of unit assets when envisaged for operations in international operations and in NATO response forces. Among other things, it is a means of co-financing the construction of a new NATO headquarters. Investment in local infrastructure is not foreseen this year. After the rebalancing, €7 and a half million are allocated; in 2014, only €5.6 million after the rebalancing. Realistically, our proposal reduces the funds by only €600,000. The dilemma between Nate's seat and the hospital on Stari Gora probably shouldn't be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u175	Thank you very much. There is another debate on this item. No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to budget user 3330, Ministry of Science and Sport Education, and a discussion on the amendments tabled to two sub-programmes in this budget user. First, I am putting to the debate the sub-programme Research programmes and projects as well as the amendments of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the United Left Group. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u176	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! With this amendment, we in Novi Slovenija want to take one small step on the way to the knowledge society. It is an item of Research Programmes and Projects; it is a research to find its applicability in the economy. The trend of investment in knowledge has been dramatic in the last six years. From 2008 to today, we have cut funding for research programmes and projects by just 25%. And this sub-programme represents the funding of scientific and research work, which is crucial for social, educational, technological and economic development in our country. By reducing funds for these purposes, we have reduced the possibilities for Slovenia's economic development in particular, which has been far behind compared to comparable countries in Europe in recent years. We really ask for the support of this amendment, if, of course, Members and Members of Parliament, in particular, you are aware that we want to be a knowledge society in Slovenia. We don't have oil wells, we don't have some big mines, natural wealth, except for once, thank God, green nature. But we have good, smart people, and I think it's necessary for the people to be aware of their heads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Here you go, Mr. Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u178	Thank you very much. We in the United Left spend an additional EUR 2 million and a half on research programmes and projects. Without the promotion of science and research, there is no development. This is clear to anyone as a white day or anyone except the ruling coalition and its government. Resources for research programmes and projects are falling by a good 7 million and a half. Research projects in both basic and applied research are a condition for developing a development based on labour productivity rather than on direct and direct reduction in labour costs. In addition, research is important not only for economic reasons but also for social progress, as it brings new scientific achievements and seeks innovative solutions for social needs, such as health needs, becoming more and more attractive to environmental needs. Increasing funding for research projects and programmes would also contribute, at least in part, to the retention of the most educated and creative individuals, who, as we know, are increasingly deciding to find some career opportunities abroad or to move freely from Slovenia. As we have proposed in scholarships or we still propose, we also propose here that this point also be taken from funds intended for promotion activities for foreign investment. From a development perspective, such policies are the way to the global periphery. The idea behind this is privatisation, tax reduction, deregulation and liberalisation. And we are very firm in the position that instead of privatisation we should invest in development and in people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Dr. Franz Cross, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u180	Honorable Chairman, High Council! I would like to complement Mr Joseph Horvat's discussion. The Pahor's government increased the funding allocated to the Research Agency, reaching 180 million in 2011 and is now dropping to 130 million. Zdrss was very fast and deep, but it started in 2012.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Any other discussions? Mr. Miha Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u182	Another general supplement concerning eligibility and the importance of development and research. We like to compare ourselves with Germany, but we like to compare ourselves with Austria, or with capitalism, which reigns in Germany and Austria. And that's what we call real capitalism. I would like to point out that with us, the government is also a capitalist, like the government, for example, in Austria and Germany, but it must be realized that capitalism has two faces in its urgent internal structural logic. He knows the metropolis and he knows the periphery. And so that we do not become a complete periphery, because now we are on our way to this periphery, we are sliding it, we urgently need to invest in development and research. That's what I wanted to add. The development perspective that we see in this budget, which we see in the lack of research resources, is one that will not lead us anywhere near to Germany, as we know it today, as a synonym of some economic performance, efficiency, but closer to some Africa on the other side of the Mediterranean. That's not what any of us want. That is why our amendment is a double-effective and specific two true points. The first is to add resources to research and development. The second is that it takes these funds from the programme, which also promotes privatisation. I started this intervention with German development, with Austrian development, to end it with this. Germany has not developed in such a way that it privatised everything on the list, even less so that this privatisation would take place as a simple garage sale. It developed because of its strong interference with market dynamics, it developed because it maintained public companies and also developed because these companies knew a wide range of labour participation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Cat, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u184	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for this support, and I would like to add this to my colleagues from the opposition that in this situation we should say that we are also members of the coalition, or in the government, aware that science is particularly affected. [[…]] But as opposition Member Ange Logar has already said, I will repeat it, and he rightly quoted me as saying that science will also have to survive this budget or 2015. At the same time, however, I would point out that in the years ahead, 2016, 2017 and so forth, we would actually try to make some conversion in this area. It is true, especially when it comes to science in the Republic of Slovenia, it has been shrinking since 2008. We are moving away from Barcelona's objectives, in short, the objectives that the European Union is somehow pursuing. I hope that we will meet again on such occasions and that there will be wider consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Is there any other request for a discussion? No, no, no. I thank and conclude the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Implementation of primary school programmes and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group Alliance of Alenka Bratušek and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? Mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Our Group has tabled an amendment to increase the sub-programme for the implementation of primary school programmes for the user of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport by €4 million, with a view to reducing the sub-programme's contribution to the European Union to the user of the Ministry of Finance for the same amount. This amendment follows the decision, which we unanimously, stress, adopted unanimously, at a meeting of the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth on 20 January this year, when we addressed the issue of saving in education. I would like to point out that this unanimous decision has been proposed – pay attention! - coalition partners. It read: "The Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth calls on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport to provide funding for learning aid and other envisaged austerity measures." Unfortunately, three weeks later, exactly 11 February this year, a conversion took place on the Committee on Education's 2015 balance sheet. The Minister said that this year, she would run out of funding for teaching aid, schools in nature and interesting activities amounting to €4 million, and she urged, quote: "I think that the symbolic gesture that would allocate funds, so that the Ministry could eliminate those measures that have rightly experienced the most negative response in the public, that is learning aid, that is, selective financing of the school in nature and also slightly less financing of interesting activities, would be appropriate for amendments. In the event that the Committee decides to follow the decision of the previous sitting, I think this is something which may have a positive impact on the allocation of funds for this area." End of quote. Look, it rarely happens that the minister herself calls for aid for funds, as in this case happened. It is true that the funding for primary education increased by €17 million in the light of the 2015 budget – we know that it was adopted in 2013 – but I must stress that the funds decreased by a total of €7 million in the light of the budget balance adopted at the end of last year, i.e. for 2014. It is regrettable, however, that the coalition partners in the Education Committee voted unanimously against the amendment, which would increase funds for this purpose. And it also saddens me, indeed, that our amendment today on the Committee on Finance was unanimously rejected by the coalition. Excuse me, dear colleagues, everything stops when we talk about children. And that's where the mind ends, the mind, if we don't accept this amendment. Who are we going to invest in if not children? That is why I would like to say the following to the distinguished Minister, who is not among us now. We followed your call and tabled an amendment. All you have to do is explain to the coalition to support this amendment. There's still time. And finally, because hope dies last, I am also addressing you again, dear colleagues and colleagues, and on behalf of the child I ask you very much to soften your heart and support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mrs. Jelka Godec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u188	Thank you very much. We have also tabled the same amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We have also advocated on the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth that such an amendment has also come to the vote. And, as Mrs Bon Klanjšček, chairman of the committee, said, in fact, the most ridiculous or most tragic thing was that the coalition had proposed a month earlier that funds be found for teaching aid, schools in nature, interesting activities and so on, and then voted unanimously against this amendment, which would allow additional funds, czech, the Minister will only try and find money within the balance for this area within a week. And look at the fraction, we read in the media today, at 3 p.m. and something else, the announcement that money will be found for the payment of teaching aid and the subsidisation of the school in nature. There's no money in the balance sheet, but he'll find himself. Now — where are we going to get it if not from the balance? And then we read that we'll get him at the Treasury Department. Will we have a rebalance in one week so that we can provide learning aid? The statements are incredible because then the Minister declares that all the legal obligations will be covered. Of course they will, but teaching aid is not a marriage obligation because it is not written anywhere in the ZOFVI. We have already pointed out that the problem is that teaching aid is not defined in the ZOFVI and is not a marriage obligation, and we can avoid it and we can say that we will settle all marriage obligations, but we will not. And as a colleague earlier said, the minister was literally asking for such an amendment, for this help. And since we all know that otherwise this teaching aid will not be available, it will not be hidden, we have actually heard it. And in all public calls and letters, from teachers, administrators, Sveza and so on, the minister answers the same question: we will cover up the legal obligations. She doesn't say anywhere that she's going to cover for teaching aid and subsidizing the school in nature. Suddenly, however, they found that this teaching aid as well as the school in nature fell within the framework of an agreement between the social partners and the ministry or the.government. All of a sudden. That's what they found out today. And it has to be covered. But I am now asking the coalition or now I should ask the rebalancing proponent – where are you going to take this money? Then these amendments are irrelevant if you provide four million. Otherwise, I believe that in all this ping-pong with this teaching aid and this money, given that the coalition itself has proposed that money be assured that you will support this amendment. Otherwise, please tell me honestly where you'll find the money. The minister says he's not in the balance sheet at the Ministry of Education, so we'll take him somewhere else. Where?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr. Peter Wilphan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u190	Thank you for your word. I'm going to say this, I just don't want to, or I don't want to believe that tomorrow this amendment could happen, that this amendment would not get support in this House. I can't believe and I don't want to believe that we're going to hit the weakest again, those who are actually on this edge, those who can't help themselves, those who, of course, depend on how much we're willing to help them, help them out, and maybe even take measures like this additional teaching aid or additional professional assistance, let's let them live normally one day. I was shocked by the Minister's statement that she had announced that there would be so much and so much money to be saved in the school system and mentioned the withdrawal of these four million — four million children with special needs or children with decisions for this additional professional assistance, to subsidise schools in nature and some other activities. I wasn't the only one. The general and professional public were shocked, teachers, trade unions and, above all, the parents of these children. Now there is something else about these two meetings of the Education Committee. At the first meeting, as we have already heard, a decision was taken unanimously to call on the government to find and provide these funds. Then came this second budget meeting, at which, as has already been said, the Minister herself, in fact, asked the Committee in some way to prepare and table this amendment, will be able to better defend the provision of these funds, both in the Government, probably on the Committee on Finance and so on. And when this amendment was finally tabled by the committee, to a great surprise, then the coalition members firmly reject it. I will be even a little sharper, and I will say that I can also think in this direction, that the Minister probably knew very well how her fellow Members would vote. And if that's how it is, if she knew, it was just one such performance for the public and then it's, excuse me, one purely rejected act. But I really hope this isn't the case and that I'm wrong, but I had to say it. Now there's something about the vote. Tomorrow we will vote on this amendment, and everything will depend on the coalition Members, especially Members of the largest SMC MPs. I believe that you already have certain arrangements, commitments in the coalition, in the parliamentary group, with the Government, with your President, how you will vote tomorrow. But I want to tell you that this is not necessarily binding. I'll tell you on my case. And the case is also linked to children with special needs. In 2012, I, on the Education Committee, launched a request or initiative to enter into force the Children with Special Needs Act, which was adopted in 2010, but was not, of course, still in force. At that time, I was firmly rejected by the committee, on the ground that not all the legal, financial, legal and other grounds have yet been prepared and, of course, the matter has remained the way it is. And then came the year 2013. At the time, however, I was also in the coalition, I was a coalition Member, and I was already at the first coalition coordination that I was in, and I resumed this initiative. And to a great surprise, I was also rejected. With the same explanation that these same professional bases, legal, financial, are still not ready. I didn't give up then, I insisted, I said I wanted to keep talking about it and we had a new coalition coordination about a week later. And then I got, believe it or not, into the hands of one paper from the ministry, where it said at the top, about: "All the negative consequences for the country that you will cause by insisting that this law enters into force." I mean, it's twisted. I don't understand. It will be my fault that I insisted that something that was already adopted here in the National Assembly, three or four years ago, enters into force. But why am I saying this? Then I received only a brief message in a few days: "We inform you that there will be a marriage with 1. 1. entered into force." I want to say this, that my insistence and opposition to such a coalition, a joint delegation, to the government, as we say, had no real consequences. No one looked at me the other way, no one was offended, no one was angry. Why? Because I was right. And of course, dear colleagues, if you vote for this amendment tomorrow, you'll be right. No one will be able to tell you anything and not to tell you anything, because it is a fundamental right, also supported by the Constitution, every Member to vote in his conscience to vote as he thinks it is right. And once again, it is only right that we support this amendment tomorrow. I am a little naive, and I expect that tomorrow this amendment, according to everything said here today, will be supported unanimously and that we will show that in this Slovenia the so-called social, compassionate, solidarity and human state still exists and lives.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Here you are, Mr. Secretary of State Dr. Peter Cat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u192	Thank you so much for saying that. Learning aid is an extremely sensitive topic and we are particularly aware of sensitivity at the Ministry. The Ministry also ensures on behalf of the Minister that we will do everything possible to ensure that this learning aid is not reduced or that no one is deprived. As to how this will be done, we are in agreement, there are also arrangements within the government, so I think that, among the most vulnerable groups, we will certainly not ignore them. I would point out once again that the Ministry, when planning the budget within the limits, paid particular attention to the social dimension, said not to forgive, not to squander human capital, including children, students and so on. So we are aware of this, and as a result, there has been a tremendous contraction in investments, in short, where this social part does not revolve around. This, once again, is an opportunity and an invitation to ensure that education and science are actually provided in future budgets, because we all know, and you also know very well, that investing in education and science is one of the areas that are most remunerated over the longer term, even in an economic sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Peter Wilphan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u194	Thank you for your word. I'll be brief. What Mr Cat has now said is all nice and maybe everything he holds, but all that he has said now, what they want, what they will do, what they will try, what is in their power and what is not in their power, we can solve by confirming this amendment tomorrow and having this story concluded and having these children provided additional learning aid or additional professional assistance, and by going to school in nature they will be able to attend those children who would otherwise not be able to afford it. They will also be able to deal with certain other activities of those children who could not otherwise. Therefore again I say: why wait, why should we hunt you down and hold you to the word, but if tomorrow we can finish this story and we will all be satisfied.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm closing the debate. I inform you that the amendment of the United Left Group to the Sub-programme Food of Students, Students and Students has been withdrawn. We are also moving to the budget user 3331, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Youth and the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme for the Youth Programmes and the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Andrey Chush, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Good evening, everyone! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we propose to increase the funds of institutions in the Office of Youth to EUR 500 000 and to reduce the resources to the General Secretariat of the Government to implement protocol events accordingly. Today he had an excellent presentation or explanation of our proposal, and I think he said everything at the time, but let me explain my voice or what it is. In fact, we have a basic question whether we will give the same money or more for caviar, lobsters, foams or perhaps give up the luxury of all of us, governments, guests, and set aside something to co-finance youth work in the Republic of Slovenia. Probably many of you do not know what youth organisation is or what this organisation is like for us in Slovenia, but since the Youth Council of Slovenia consists of all national youth organisations, political teenagers, skating associations, campers and so on, we all note that we have adopted a resolution on the National Youth Programme a year and a half ago in the National Assembly. This is about as much paper as it is, but when this resolution was adopted, we did not define the financial costs. We expect to help solve the problem of young people, to design a policy that will prevent youth policy, and then we are so stingy that we don't spend a single euro on it. The problem of young people in our belief is not left or right, but the problem is for all of us, our future, so it would be completely understandable to confirm such an amendment. By doing so, we will be able to provide more support for the formulation of youth housing policies, education policies, scholarship policies, health and, at the end of the day, information for young people, as we all find that information for young people today is on a very high footing. We will also have to look in this context for some new innovative ways to inform young people, to raise awareness of current developments in society and at the end stage, so that more and more young people are involved in social life. In the last election, one move forward, many young faces. I think it is right for the young generation to step together and take a more active approach to solving the problem of young people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u197	Thank you. Mr Jan Mahnič entered the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u198	Thank you, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! My colleague, Chuš, and I prepared this amendment in cooperation with the SDS, with the Slovenian Democratic Youth, mainly because we read in the coalition that it writes about what the coalition will stand for – more accessible kindergartens, the Voucher system, housing cooperatives, favourable loans, staff scholarships, recording of work experience and career incubator. Since we have not been a witness in six months ago, I believe that the coalition wants to give at least one sign to young people or that it wants to give at least one sign that they will move the matter from a dead point in one direction in the field of youth policy. For this reason, I believe that these 500 000 euros will still be allowed. We took protocol activities, there was talk about the Hill. I know a lot of politicians went there to hunt bears, deer and what I know. A 100-pound bear can already go hunting for 15,000 euros, say Croatia, not 500 000 euros, so I believe you can expect it here. Give a positive sign to the young and support this amendment. 500 000 Euros [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u199	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr Miha Kordish applied to the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u200	Thank you so much for saying that. Let me begin by saying that I very warmly welcome and support the amendments tabled by colleague Mahnic and colleague Chuš. For I have spent a lot of time in youth organisations as a volunteer, as an organiser and so on, and I can say first-hand that these youth organisations contribute greatly to the creation of young people. They give them new horizons, new knowledge, through a process that is designed not only for the youth sector, but also contributes to the momentum of action in local communities, not least at a broader national level. This hummus, created in this way by youth organisations, can also be used, drawn from it and spilled to the level of policy, at national level as an interlocutor with the country. So, once again, welcome, support. You have my vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u201	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The vote on the amendments and on the specific part of the proposal for a rebalancing will be held tomorrow, 20th in accordance with the timing of the meeting. 2. 2015, in the context of the votes We are moving on to the agenda of the development programmes. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The vote on the Development Programme Plan will be held tomorrow, 20, in accordance with the meeting's timetable. 2. 2015, in the context of the votes We are moving on to a full debate on the proposal for a rebalancing. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The vote on the proposal for a rebalancing will take place in full accordance with the meeting's timetable tomorrow, 20. 2. 2015, in the context of the votes This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. POSITION OF THE DAY’S LINE, THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTMENTS OF THE LAW ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE BUDGETS OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR 2014 AND 2015. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Madam Secretary Vraničar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u202	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia is usually accompanied by the State's budget rebalancing and sets out the solutions necessary for the smooth implementation of the budget. The current law on the implementation of the budget was adopted in 2013 together with the current budget for 2015. The law has been amended several times, and this time we propose the following amendments to the proposed balance. We propose an amendment to Article 12 of the current law, which allows the State to additionally be in charge of obligations in the pension protection policy and public debt service policy in the current year without providing an additional balance. We estimate that the estimates of spending on these two policies with the budgetary rebalance are fairly accurate and that we do not need such additional safeguards, and thus reduce the possibility of overcoming the deficit target by additional borrowing. We further propose the addition of Article 20, which is linked to the start of drawing on the European funds of the new financial perspective, by allowing the government's service for cohesion policy and development to self-distribute the funds for this pump. We are also limiting the possibility of concluding multi-annual contracts in a way that does not limit us to budgetary planning for the following years by taking on too much responsibility too quickly. We further propose an amendment to Article 34 of the Law in order to allow for the opening of integrated budget lines during the year, where this is necessary for the recovery of unused or unduly used funds from the European budget or other international financial mechanisms. Further, we are extending the possibility of the administrator of the country's Single Treasury Account, with Article 6, to pursue an appropriate investment policy with regard to the charging of free funds. With the proposed amendment, we will allow the operator to invest free money also in the European monetary union savings and state treasures and in the purchase of the treasury of these countries under certain conditions. In accordance with the balance sheet, the extent of the maximum possible indebtedness of the country in this year should be adjusted in Article 7. However, Articles 8, 9 and 10 lay down rules for transfers from the State budget to municipal budgets. Article 8 thus specifies the average for this year in accordance with the agreement with the representative municipal associations. It is further laid down that, from 1 January 2015 onwards, municipalities shall be provided with income and financial compensation up to the amount of eligible expenditure. Article 10 provides for the amount of the investment transfer referred to in Article 21 of the Law on the Financing of Municipalities. The amended law further proposes that municipalities should be allowed additional responsibility for co-financing European cohesion projects, which was also one of the requirements set by the municipalities during the talks on the average of this year. Taking into account this content, we propose that the National Assembly should support the proposal for a law in both the second and third readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u203	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Tiln Bozic, Vice-President.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u204	Your Honor, good evening! Report of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body in the case of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015 by the meeting of 17. 2. 2015 is relatively extensive, so I will only take it meaningfully below. In the context of the material for the meeting, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on Economic Affairs, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, supported by the proposal for a law, the opinion of the Commission of the National Assembly on the supervision of public finances as an interested working body, was forwarded to the Committee. Several amendments have been tabled to the amendment, namely: NSIs to Articles 8 and 10, United Left to Article 1, SDS to Articles 6 and 7, SMC, Desus and SD coalition groups to Articles 1, 3, 6 and 9 and First-signed Mr Jurša and the other Members Desus and SD to Article 1 and to Article 10a. At the meeting, a proposal for amendments to Article 9 was also tabled at the initiative of representatives of the ZPS and the Government. The meeting was attended by a representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, representatives of the Ministry of Finance and in conclusion of the hearing also by the Minister of Finance, Dr Dušan Maramor. Following an introductory explanation of the new solutions proposed by the Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained that the comments made in the written opinion were largely taken into account by the amendments of the coalition groups. In the course of the debate, in the context of the decision on the articles and the amendments tabled, representatives of the parliamentary groups that tabled the amendments to each article presented, on behalf of the proposers, a substantive presentation of the amendments. The discussion focused on paragraphs 1, 3, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 and the newly proposed 10a. If I briefly sum up the debates. With regard to Article 1 and the possibility of indemnity for payment of debts and pension payments, the United Nations Group of the Left has proposed the deletion, as they believe that the payment of pensions is directly at risk. The Desus Group and the Social Democrats have proposed a less restrictive adaptation of the provision. The representative of the Government explained that the Government's proposal does not reduce the possibility of payment of pensions provided by the income of the pension fund, from contributions, other income from the pension fund or from the transfer from the state budget to the pension fund. With regard to Article 6 on the deposit of free funds in the store, the SDS Group expressed its opposition to the imposition of free funds into the store and proposed the deletion. In their view, investments in savings banks are more risky than bank investments. Representatives of coalition parties stressed the optimisation of the availability of funds, costs and perhaps slightly higher returns. The representative of the Government explained that in the case of savings facilities, according to the capital adequacy and investment policy, it is a comparable risk and would be inappropriate to exclude savings. With regard to Article 7, as regards the possibility of additional State indebtedness, the SDS Group stressed that the provision increases the possibility of debt representing a common debt. The representative of the Government rejected the statement by explaining that it was a possible and not an actual level of indebtedness and provided data on the extent of pre-financing and current indebtedness. With regard to Article 8 which sets the average for municipalities, the NSI Group pointed out that this was unacceptable in their view, since interference at the level of averages downwards could jeopardise the performance of the duties of municipalities and what has already been prescribed by the Law on the Financing of Communities. With regard to the possibility of additional indebtedness of municipalities, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service expressed concerns about the unclear manner and procedure for granting the consent of the competent ministry to the additional indebtedness of the municipalities, thus triggering a debate on the possibility of submitting an amendment to the amendment that would remedy this deficiency. With regard to Article 10 and the reduction of municipal investment funds, the NSI Group expressed its view that the reduction of investment resources is not acceptable to municipalities. The government rejected this by explaining that this was in line with the representatives of the municipalities. The proposed Article 10a proposing the coordination of pensions was also of interest. The Minister of Finance strongly opposed such an amendment. Let me finish with the bottom line. The Committee has considered the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups. The amendments to Articles 1, 3, 6 and 9 were adopted and the other amendments were rejected. The Committee also voted on all the articles of the bill together at the end and adopted them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u205	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Dr. Franz the Crusader.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u206	Dear President, representatives of the government, distinguished High Council! The proposal for a novel Law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015 contains some urgent solutions that will enable the current and smooth implementation of the budget balance of the Republic of Slovenia in 2015. Let us recall that, among other things, the aim is to reduce the budget deficit below the Maastricht limit of 3%. In addition to the revenue side measures that were adopted by the majority at the end of last year, the government has reached some important agreements in the negotiations that will shorten the expenditure side of the budget. Thus, at the end of last December, the government concluded an agreement with the trade unions on measures, weighing more than 300 million euros. For its immediate public financial impact, it has agreed to release progress and to start negotiations on the elimination of salary anomalies, changes in the pay system and wage policy in the public sector. The proposed amendment to the law on the implementation of the budget shall, inter alia, legislate the content of one of the tough nuts which the Government has resolved or broken down in the negotiations, this time with representatives of local communities. In this way, tomorrow in the vote, we will legislate solutions from the content of the agreement between the Government and the associations of municipalities on the average and sequestering of investment transfers. The average will thus be €525 by 30 June and €500.83 by the end of the year from 1 July to the end of the year. The financial impact of the measure is around €40 million and, together with a percentage reduction in investment and the elimination of the solidarity balance, the expenditure side of the budget is easier for around €60 million. That's the load. We point out, however, that the Government must, in accordance with the agreement adopted by the end of June, prepare and ensure the adoption of systemic measures to reduce the costs of municipalities at an annual level of almost €23 million. This is now a new hard nut for the government, which will have to be crushed again. An important part of the novel proposal is also an increase in the country's debt threshold by about €1.3 billion. In this regard, we note that there is a double effect. Slovenia is extremely liquid. Representatives of the Government have informed us that we have 4 billion and a half liquid assets that the state can use at any time or in due course if any measure is to be financed. This, of course, is due to the great financial crisis and then to the speculative attack in 2012 and 2013. This security is even slightly increased by this additional debt, and representatives of the Government have assured us that these funds operate in a way that has further contributed to a reduction in the interest rate or a reduction in the return on Slovenian bonds. This shows us in the light of what we should have been shown before, it is said to be an export-oriented, successful, industrialised economy. Let's get to the next topic. A commitment must be opened, not only to the financial markets, but also to our people. These include the release of certain rights when economic growth exceeds a certain threshold, which is usually 2.5% of gross domestic product growth. If it turns out that this was indeed above mentioned last year, pensions will gradually be brought into line, as provided for by the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, followed by an increase in State grants and child allowances, parental compensation, a large family allowance and other social transfers. In the Group of Social Democrats, we expect the Government to provide funds through internal transfers in cases that show that the planned funds will not be able to meet the legal obligations. In the Group of Social Democrats on the Law on the Enforcement of Budgets, we draw attention to the consequences of the required reduction in the number of employees in the public sector by 1%. The flat-rate non-selective policy of public sector decommissioning is reflected in the sub-nutrition of certain parts of the system and is harmful to development and closes the employment space for young people. The proposal for a new law on the implementation of budgets for 2014 and 2015 will be supported by the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u207	Thank you. The position of the United Left Group will be presented by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u208	Thank you for your word. Nice hello to you all! Three things are laid down in this law. First, an increase in the maximum permitted level of indebtedness. Secondly, restrictions on investments and budgets of municipalities. And thirdly, the priorities of fiscal policy. Point one. The increase in the debt is reasonable and justified because in 2013 it was not possible to foresee additional expenditure on interest and similar expenditure for 2015. Secondly, we oppose restrictions on the investments and budgets of the municipalities. We are opposed to a linear reduction in the investment of municipalities by 1%, for two reasons. Firstly, this decrease is detrimental to economic growth and increases unemployment. Secondly, we do not agree to saving on investments and jobs in Slovenia, but at the same time the country finances, say, the construction of a new NATO headquarters. Thirdly, this brings us to the third question, the issue of priority. Article 12 of the Law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015. This Article provides, inter alia, that pension security obligations shall also be settled if there is no provision for them on the relevant items. The second paragraph of Article 12 allows pension protection obligations to be dealt with in the extreme case with by additional State indebtedness. However, the amendment explicitly excludes this option. This potentially jeopardises the payment of pensions. This would result in a reduction of social rights and an increase in the risk of poverty in pensioners. And that risk is real. Both the 2014 budget rebalancing and the 2015 budget rebalancing required an increase of more than EUR 100 million. What if something unpredictable happens in 2015 as well and there will be an additional responsibility for the payment of pensions? They're going to retire this year? Once again, I reiterate that Slovenia's macroeconomic position is good at the moment. If the Government takes care, of course, of favourable economic trends, of the income from taxes on capital and property, there is no fear that there should be additional debt. But the government doesn't plan this in this rebalancing. If an extraordinary event occurs, pensions will be directly threatened. And if this novel is adopted, there will be no additional debt to pay them, and this will not only violate the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, but also Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which stipulates that Slovenia is a social state. Minister Mumor behaves in this respect as his predecessor Dr. Šuštersič acted in 2012, who with ZUJF was in a smooth violation of the constitutional rights of 26,000 pensioners. At that time, pensioners and the Legal and Legislative Service warned that his decision was not fair and that it was contrary to the Constitution. But he simply said no problem, will already be judged by the Constitutional Court; if necessary, we will pay compensation. Is this also Dr. Mira Cerar's new ethical policy? This reminds me more of good old neoliberalism — saving at all costs, the important thing for us to reduce the deficit, and then let someone else deal with the damages. This mode of action is unacceptable, so in the United Left we have tabled an amendment. And if the government coalition is about pensioners and the social state, we expect the change to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u209	Thank you. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u210	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Members of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats for today's amendments and additions to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015 will not be supported. Let me give you some key reasons. Firstly, today's amendment to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015 again increases the limit of permissible debt this year from the current EUR 2.7 billion to almost EUR 4 billion. New Slovenia – Christian Democrats oppose additional debt. The new debts bring not only an increase in public debt but also an increasing amount in the interest-paying budget. This share already exceeds 10 % of all budget expenditure. The share of available resources for public education, health care and other public services is therefore decreasing in the budget. The current government is clearly merely continuing the policy of the previous government, and we do not support such policies by Christian Democrats. Secondly, with the amendment of the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015, the Government is strongly interfering with the financing of municipalities. The height of the average shall be reduced. While the first half remains the same as set out now, in the second half of 2015 it decreases from the current 525 euros to 500.83 euros. The starting point for the determination of this amount of the average is, according to the Government's explanation, an agreement has been reached between the Government and the representative associations of municipalities, the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia. The fact is, no municipality and no mayor is satisfied. The average thus established is contrary to the applicable Article 12 of the Law on the Financing of Communities, which prescribes a method of calculating the amount of the average. The calculation of the amount of funds shall be carried out by the Ministry responsible for the finances on the basis of the data from the past four years, taking into account inflation. Such a calculation is not presented in the draft law. Undoubtedly, however, it would show that the height of the average should increase and not decrease. On the basis of the various laws, municipalities consistently acquire additional powers, additional tasks and, on the other hand, the average has been decreasing for several years, which means that the municipalities will simply not be able to carry out their tasks under the laws. Already, many municipalities with the resources available barely cover the expenses and expenses incurred by the legislation. In addition, a further reduction for these purposes means de facto abolishing municipalities, in particular smaller municipalities, as they will not be able to exercise legally defined powers and statutory tasks as a result of the proposed reduction. By reducing funds, we are, as we say, witnessing the de facto abolition of the congregations. We've barely avoided the abolition of the communes of de iura by Minister Gregor Virant. All municipalities were set up on the basis of the elected referendum decision of the citizens of the individual municipality, and such termination also means de facto intervention in the referendum will. In addition, let me say that such an agreed reduction is not supported by the average mayors of the municipalities. In Novi Slovenije, we have tabled an amendment on our mother's working body to maintain the average level so far, but the ruling coalition of our amendment has not voted. Thirdly, the amount of resources from the State budget to finance investments is decreasing from 2% to 1%. Local public infrastructure is also financed from funds to finance municipalities. Due to the lack of maintenance and many natural disasters, beaches, floods, ponds, numerous municipal roads are damaged to the extent that the safety of their use is seriously compromised. A number of bridges have also been extended, which had to be closed down for the safety of road users. Reducing funds for these purposes will further exacerbate the situation of local public infrastructure. Let me finish. The new Slovenia – Christian Democrats, with the amendment we have tabled on the mother's working body, has proposed deleting this reduction. Of course, the government coalition did not support our proposal. This means an additional negative measure for the economy as well. In order to reduce funds for these purposes, planned investments will be suspended, in particular [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u211	Please finish slowly.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u212	Construction, however, will go back after the initial signs of recovery. [[...]] As already stated, Members of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u213	Please, if you'll finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u214	for 2014 and 2015 we will not support. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u215	Thank you. I ask the discussers to hold on to the time they have at their disposal. Mr Jani Möderndorfer will present the position of the Allied Group of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u216	The law on the implementation of the budget of Slovenia or so-called ZIPRS, as we like to call it, is the law that has been most abused in the last 3, 4 years, since we have found in this law all kinds of possibilities of by-products that we have pressed just to enforce political will. We hope to claim, at least after what's ahead, that this path is a little different. But we were confused by one thing. I'm not going to tell you what ZIPRS is because we heard my predecessors. They all repeated everything they could about ZIPRS, what was in it. What is more important, however, is that the government came with an adopted novel and said at the same time, so at least it was read in the media that with the local community on average more or less everything was agreed and coordinated. However, in the committee and in all the talks that are in the parliamentary procedure, we have been confronted with some other facts. On the one hand, if we listened to government representatives, how everything is regulated and coordinated with regard to the average and investment transfers, we could hear that this meant the beginning of the end and that the local communities would no longer be able to carry out their tasks. I don't want to share the rights of who's right and who's wrong, but I'm sure it's a little awkward if the government claims one thing and the board shows something completely different. It is therefore difficult to say that it is easy to adopt such a new law, which is also a reflection of the budget itself, since it is linked to one another. By the end of the debate, we will be in the Alliance to decide what we will do or whether we will support this proposal or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u217	Thank you. Mr Tillen Bozič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Mir Cerar Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u218	Hello again! In line with current practice, today, in addition to the 2015 budget rebalancing, we also have before us the amendment of the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015. This is a technical law that operationalises some of the measures set out in the 2015 budget balance. Let me give some key points of the novel. It is envisaged that the provision allowing additional debt for the purposes of covering pension protection obligations will cease to apply, as new projections have established and then, through the means of assessment, ensured that the measure in its existing form is no longer necessary. If, despite careful planning, there are unforeseen differences over the course of the year, however, there is still an open path to rescue through reallocation or, only in the extreme case, a rebalancing. The amendment to the law also reflects the updated way in which cohesion funds are allocated over the period 2014-2020. As of 2015, resources are no longer allocated on the basis of a rough conceptual cut, but they must be justified by concrete projects prior to deployment. For that reason, powers shall be extended to the Administrative Authority for Cohesion Policy in a manner allowing for later reallocation, between the Slovenian participation items and between the European Union earmarked items. The novel also includes solutions agreed in close cooperation by the Government with representative associations of municipalities with the Community of Slovene municipalities and the Association of Slovene municipalities. We have further or better settled some of the solutions with amendments already supported by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. The key changes are: the adoption of the average for 2015, which is set at EUR 525 or just over EUR 500 for the second half of 2015; the reduction in the volume of funds for investments by municipalities from 2 % to 1%; and the measure last mentioned is the provision of money for investment projects by municipalities with an additional debt of EUR 750 000 per municipality, but not more than EUR 10 million in total for all municipalities. The tact in determining these amounts was necessary, as the indebtedness of the congregations also contributes to the identification of the common debt and the indirect deficit that must be kept under constant review in these times. The news is also an expansion of the range of possibilities for moving surplus funds to municipalities, as surpluses could now also be deposited in storage facilities. These are financial companies participating in Eurosystem open market operations that are specifically regulated and licensed for business and under the supervision of the central bank. For these reasons, we see no reason in the SMC to treat them differently in a particular case than business banks. The current discussions under the budget have already mentioned the regulation of the possibility of borrowing a country in an allegedly excessive amount. The determination of the extent of the country's permissible indebtedness under this Act follows consistently the deficits of the expenditure balance, A, the balance sheet of financial claims and investments, B, and the financing balance, C. It also takes into account the extent of pre-financing and current indebtedness. The amount, therefore, represents a mere alignment with the 2015 budget rebalancing that we are adopting. In the SMC Group, we believe that the amendment, taking into account the coalition-coordinated amendments already supported by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, is prepared in accordance with our expectations. As a result, the members of the SMC Group support the amendment of the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u219	Thank you. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u220	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In opening, it must be said that in the SDS Group we will not support the draft law on the implementation of budgets. We won't support him for a number of reasons. It is clear from the proposal of this law that the government of Mira Cerar continues the policy of the former government. First of all, he abuses this law to place what cannot be reconciled with the budget itself. Secondly, the government of Mira Cerar continues its debt policy. The bill foresees an increase in the country's debt to EUR 3.9 billion this year, an increase of EUR 1.3 billion, and instead of having a debt policy, we have a debt policy. The proposal for a law on the implementation of budgets also foresees that the state could now invest free money in savings facilities as well. This provision is contrary to the Public Finance Act. The Public Finance Act provides that the State can only invest free money in banks. We estimate that the Mira Cerar government is thus further threatening the risk, because their argument that now the savings banks will also have the opportunity to invest and that they offer a significantly higher interest rate than the other banks – thus increasing the risk. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we would just like to remind you of the previous government's actions when the government largely charged the bank's accounts only a few months before the controlled liquidation was introduced. On the other hand, we do not understand the government of Mira Cerar. It should be recalled that at the expense of taxpayers, we have saved the banking system with more than €5 billion in tax money. Now the government of Mira Cerar opens up the possibility that money will be invested in private storage facilities. In private dining rooms. Instead of maintaining the system of banks that we now own, increasing their capital adequacy, the Mira Cerar government has decided to go beyond the provisions of the Public Finance Act and to allow private savings financing. The greater error we see in the proposal of this law by the Government of Mira Cerar and the SD and Desus coalition is also a reduction in funds for the municipalities. The government of Mira Cerar and the SD and Desus coalition are taking funds from municipalities, reducing the average. The municipalities are the largest investor in the country of the Republic of Slovenia. As a result, you will withdraw the necessary funds for investments from the municipalities. We believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that this measure will have a negative impact on gross domestic product. The municipalities will not have money for investments and the gross domestic product will consequently decrease. Then it is likely that the proposal to re-indebt the country will also follow. There are too many negative things in this bill on budget implementation. This means that the policy of borrowing the government of Mir Cerar and the SD and Desus coalition continues. An increase of EUR 1.3 billion is foreseen, allowing cash to be invested in private storage facilities, instead of increasing the bank's capital adequacy after the 5 billion bailout, and reducing the budget, the average for municipalities will have a severe negative impact on Slovenia's gross domestic product.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u221	Thank you. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u222	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. All in attendance, all in attendance! I have too little time to take up in my position the debate that took place within our parliamentary group after the Tuesday meeting of the Finance Committee is called the parent working body. Therefore, I will focus only on two key substantive issues, which are a priority for our party and also for our Group of Members. In opening, let me stress that the concern for social security should be the concern of everyone here. But it doesn't appear to be. But I must also be correct and mention the Social Democrats and the United Left, who have listened to us and the pensioners. The first issue is our efforts to maintain the pension scheme protection mechanism under Article 1 of the novel, in the event that pension money in the pension fund runs out. And we're not saying that's gonna happen. All we've suggested is that this fuse be preserved. Individual groups did not listen. Our second key requirement is to coordinate pensions in the event of more than 2.5% economic growth. Here we were again, I remember, the greatest coalition partner in some way refused and did not go to our side. He simply did not respect the coalition treaty we signed at the time of the formation of the government of Mir Cerar. Pensions have not been harmonised since 2010. What they're worth, we all know. Do we know what it's like to live with a pension of 200, 300, 400 euros? Would you be able to do that? I don't think so. You too, my dear colleague and colleagues from New Slovenia, who have refused our efforts on the committee – I must admit that you have greatly disappointed us or surprised us. This is how you are always determined to fight for the elderly. Your colleague Vrtovec described our demand for reconciliation of pensions as our outstanding appetite when discussing the balance. Our appetite? Yeah, the pensioners would have an appetite for something else, not just, for example, cabbage and potatoes, if only they could. Believe me, they'd smell like toast too, but a lot of people can't afford it. I didn't expect you to object to the reconciliation of pensions. Be open and explain to your electorate your flirting with neoliberal principles, while forgetting about the poor old people. Tell them that before Sunday lunch. Finally, I must also point my finger at the esteemed Minister of Mr Marble, who is likely to be sitting with us today in the National Assembly, as we are addressing the country's most demanding document this year. Mr Minister – I will use a mild expression – how dare you say that pensions are being raised in the balance, and you deliberately forget to say that this was only at the expense of a higher number of pensioners?Oh, my God! None of the pensioners got a cent higher! We do not allow such deception in the Desus Group. Our amendment on the coordination of pensions, if adopted, would mean that the pensioner receives an average of around €10 and not more. Some would say it's a ridiculously low amount. That's right! We can give up these 10 euros, and for a lot of people this is extremely important. Bake next to cabbage and potatoes, and the drugs are running out. And Mr. Minister, the fact that our amendment means a last-minute budget blow is not true. We have announced these matters in due time, and those who have heard this can also say this clearly and loudly to you. Given that I am running out of time – I have had some warnings for the Prime Minister – I hope that the President will also give some of them during this discussion of the budget [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u223	Please, if you finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u224	the answers we expect from him. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u225	I would like to point out that you have abused the position of the parliamentary panel on polynomization. I hope this doesn't happen again in the future. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. Here you go. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u226	Madam Vice President, abuses need to be evaluated. You will need a few kilometers when you actually put it through, and you will also know how to give correct and honest grades.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u227	Thank you for that warning. Procedural also, Mr Jani Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u228	Thank you very much, Vice President. Look, I agree with Mr. Jursha here. In fact, it is unusual and unusual to point out how someone represents the position of the Group of Members. Parliamentary practice, as far as this is concerned, is clear. Indeed, in this national assembly, several attempts have even been made to defamate back from the bench. We have a debate on this, and then it is time for all this to be done. That's why it was unfair for Jurša's colleague to do what you did, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u229	Thank you. Procedural also, Mr. Han, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u230	Thank you very much. I too can defend a member of the Social Democrats, and it is incorrect, Mr Jani Möderndorfer, that you are going to defend Mr Jurša because it is unnecessary, because one thing we need to know – that the Rules of Procedure are being interpreted by the President. Mr Jurša spoke on the position of New Slovenia and Mrs Vice-President reacted correctly. And sometimes you have to be not just a politician, but a gentleman.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u231	I suggest we get this over with. Can we close? Procedural also, Mr. Jernej Vrtovec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u232	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the President! Mr Jurša, you have been in Parliament for a long time, but read the rules of procedure again. You can't argue with a Member in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And you know what I'll tell you about your debate? Since 1996, you've been in the government, and ever since you've been in the government, pensions have been falling. In 2008, you said 1,000 Euros of pension for all Slovenian pensioners, your president said – but they are not! They're not here! But I'm continuing the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u233	I suggest we move on to the debate now. I conclude this debate. We now have in our debate Article 1 and the amendment of the United Left Group. Anybody want to talk? Please sign up. We're starting the application. The word is Luke the Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u234	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. As I have already presented in the position of the Group, we have tabled an amendment to Article 1 to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015. And I'll explain briefly why. In the United Left we have proposed these amendments for two reasons. The adoption of the amendment would, on the one hand, signal the citizens that pension protection is a priority for this country. The second reason is objective. As with all previous laws, the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015 provides in Article 12 that pension protection obligations shall be settled unconditionally, even if they are not guaranteed on the relevant items of the spending rights. The second paragraph of Article 12 makes it possible for pension protection obligations to be settled in the event of an extreme event also by additional State debt. The proposed amendment, i.e. this Article 1 which we would like to delete, expressly excludes this possibility. The result could be that, in the event of extraordinary events, the pension would not be paid in full. The government has already replied to this amendment, so that the fuse would not be necessary, since the government considers that pension protection expenditure is planned realistically. This response did not convince us, for a simple reason: the same finance ministry in 2013 could not realistically assess the expenditure on pension protection for 2015 or 2014. In 2015, the difference between the plan and the rebalancing was EUR 337 million and in 2015 the error was EUR 100 million. Furthermore, we were not convinced by the explanation of the general part of the budgets. There, the Ministry states that there has been a misassessment of the implementation of the SDH Act. As a result of the SDH Act, Kad directed fewer funds to the pension fund, as there was no reconciliation of pensions in 2014 and there will be no harmonisation of pensions in 2015. So if there's no reconciliation of pensions, there's no extra expenses. Or is it? But we can clear it all up with one piece of information: before 2014, Kad directed around EUR 50 million per year to the pension fund, and the ministry, in its 2014 budget estimates, slipped by EUR 337 million, which is 6.5 times higher, and in 2015 by EUR 100 million. Thus, such excuses as to be due to the establishment of SDH are bluffs. If I draw the line below it all together, the ministry says the abolition of the possibility of additional liabilities for pensions will not reduce the possibility of payment of pensions from the budget or the transfer to the pension fund. Excuse me, was this provision in the law for 10 years due to a better one? The Joint Left proposes that this fuse be maintained. The fuse must remain because if the Ministry is wrong about the planning or if unforeseen expenditure occurs, the payment of pensions must be ensured. And in the last two years, it has been shown that we need such a guard bloodyly, as in 2014 the error was 337 million euros and in the 2015 budget rebalancing 100 million. And we have no guarantee that this time pension expenditure should really be assessed realistically. They're no more real than they were in 2013. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u235	Thank you. The Secretary of State has signed up. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u236	Thank you very much. This explanation of the amendment is somewhat unusual. First of all, as regards the threat of payment of pensions and the comparison of the amendment of the law on the implementation of the budget with the 2012 ZUJF. Let me draw attention to the fact that this provision was introduced into the law on the implementation of the budget in 2012 because it was uncertain whether the funds set out at the time for the transfer from the State budget to the pension fund were planned properly or not. And why this uncertainty? In addition to 50 million regular transfers for the coordination of pensions intended primarily for the coordination of pensions, Kad will transfer 140 million additional funds for the privatisation of state assets to the pension fund in addition to the 50 million regular transfers for the coordination of pensions. This privatisation did not take place in 2013. Therefore, this transfer from Kad to the pension fund was not available. Therefore, it is not a reason to change or otherwise implement the transfer from the state budget to the pension fund in the absence of accurate planning, but rather that what was envisaged for 2013 did not happen. Similarly, in 2014 it did not happen that Kad would have any revenue from the sale of state assets that he would have transferred to the pension register. In early 2014, there was a further amendment to the SDH Act, which abolished this provision and thereby reduced the pension allowance for transfers from Kad by 190 million. This missing transfer also had to be aligned with the needs of the pensioner’s cash register in 2014 through a rebalancing. And this year's change in the balance is not 100 million, Mr Mesec, but 52 million if we are to be precise. Like last year's, it wasn't 300 or something, but it was a little over 100 million. Why the difference? Because of what I explained at the time of the rebalancing – because the income of the pension fund from contributions due to better economic conditions improved according to what was expected and as a result part of this loss was covered by the pension treasury itself by a better collection of contributions. However, the state budget must cover an additional 52 million this year. This is not a planning error, but it is a matter of taking into account the circumstances and changes in the rules that have taken place after the draft budget has already been implemented. Once again, this provision has nothing to do with the individual rights of pensioners and other recipients of pension funds. Their rights remain unchanged and their payment remains secure. It is only a matter of whether you give the Government the authority to do something about it, and whether it has the power to do so within the framework of the reallocation, or whether you ask the Government to ensure that it is not able to redistribute these funds to provide them with a budget rebalance and that it comes to say so in the National Assembly. Our assessment is that we planned a rebalancing transfer to the pension fund properly and that we will be able to make it at the proposed level in accordance with the balance tomorrow, I hope, confirmed. If that were not the case, we committed ourselves to coming back to the National Assembly and to say why we had misplanned these funds. The payment of pensions or the constitutionality of pensions is not threatened in any way.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u237	Thank you. Replica, Luca Moon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u238	Thank you. I'd like to point out a few discrepancies in the numbers. You said in this year's rebalancing, I understand, the difference of 52 million, but under item 21, pension protection clearly says it's 100 million. That's another thing. With regard to the 337 million difference in 2014, you say that this has occurred because, due to the failure of the planned privatisation, 140 million euro was not paid out of SDH to the pension fund. Even if that's true, the difference here is 197 million. We still don't make it to zero. I want to know what guarantees us that this year's budget is realistically planned, and what is the difference, say, with the 2013 plans, which is supposed to ensure that this year's budget is as real as you predicted. Indeed, even if you have revenue from privatisation in this year, there is no guarantee that it will happen this year if it is not in 2014.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u239	Thank you. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u240	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! When I talk about Article 1 as it has been in Parliament's practice for 20 years, I will also talk about the whole law, nothing about other matters, as this law stipulates, because this law provides for a lot of things. It lays down what is not provided for in other laws and has certain provisions which also relate to Article 1 and which are linked to Article 7. First of all, Article 7 increases the debt. It increases its debt from 2 billion 600 possible debt in 2015 to 3 billion 900. That's about a billion 300 differences if we take the other numbers. And here we actually ask ourselves why. Why, if the law also provides in Article 1, that there is no need to be more indebted to pension and disability insurance than is actually stated here? I'm not talking about the amendment. I'm talking about Article 1. Ladies and gentlemen, this game we're going here is dangerous. The increase in debt, if I now use other words, from 80% of the gross social product to 81.82% of the gross social product, by not being clear at all if the whole public sector is included in the debt methodology, the ESA 95 methodology – here is the questionable SID bank, here is the questionable Dars. In substance, these are state-owned companies, which are also in charge, whatever the case. In the end, Darsa’s debts will also have to be paid by the State because it guarantees certain of these debts, whether it is in this methodology or in that methodology. Anyway, they're gonna pay our kids and grandchildren, and this is about big numbers. I'm afraid this number, if we give it all together now, is close to 100% of the gross social product. But 90, gross social product is what the whole country creates in one year. That's about 35.36 billion. The fact that the Government has not submitted a debt scheme to this law, which will go in the direction of paying less and less interest in the future, and that the average interest rate that we are actually paying will be reduced – this game is a dangerous game. Of course, we can speak here and we can also look at some international statistics, and you will say yes, Italy is in charge of 130% of gross social product, Greece is in debt for more than 130% of gross social product. I will not speak of Greece because it is a special topic, but I can say for Italy that 80% of this internal debt, or the country, is repaying to companies, financial institutions established in Italy. This money remains in Italy, is invested in Italy and so on. We pay Slovenian debt mostly through the Atlantic, we pay to companies that have a seat, at least an official seat, in the United States. Where their actual seat is, God knows; maybe somewhere in space or nowhere. Or, like people say, in tax havens. Anyway, it doesn't matter. But the fact that the government does not propose in addition to the law on the implementation of the budget, which is a document where you have in it from the debt to the municipalities, to the accounts of the single treasury account, whether the savings banks may have or may not have in it, or whether the government will deposit them in this account or not. [[...]] In short, everything that is not in other marriages is always in this marriage. It's not this government's fault, it's been all along. But we do have very important provisions that I would like to draw attention to. We've made an amendment to stop this in order to stop the debt because it doesn't have to. The state has, according to the board, an account of 4 billion and a half, 4 billion and a half, which it has in various bank accounts. Now she'll have it in the grocery stores, she'll have it in other banks, wherever she is. After some technique, it goes where all the money lies. Given the level of interest rates in Europe today, we can say that it is likely to be uninterested. But there's nothing going on with that money. I believe liquidity is great. Then we still have a lot of liquidity banks that don't need this money, because we just recapitalized it and they have a lot of liquidity, they don't know what's going on with this money. And we're going to increase, and we're going to get in debt, and now we're going to put this money somewhere else. I don't know where we're gonna put it. I know that this amount, 3 billion 900, to what extent we can be indebted in 2015 or the Government can be indebted, is the result of what happened in the previous document, that is in the budget. It's just a technique, but now I'm talking about it. I propose and I think that the National Assembly should also take a decision in a responsible manner and order it to the Government to prepare a project, a programme for this country's deleveraging. Because that's not how it goes anymore. I'm not just talking about this extra billion right now. I'm talking about 30 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no such thing. The country will still spend one billion 300 more than it will have revenue, and for one billion 300 it will be able to repay more than it committed in 2014. We have put an amendment here and we propose that you support it and that we actually stop this debt policy at some symbolic level, that we stop it and say that we will have to live off what we actually create. So that's one aspect of this law. Another aspect is that it is actually necessary to release those investments that are currently being made by the municipalities. With a very large skepticism, I accept that the congregations will receive less money. The municipalities are today the only generator of investment. If you look at the projects carried out by the municipalities, including by European means, the municipalities are the ones that invest the most. And I don't mind. Let's not let the government, the central government, be jealous of the congregations, and don't say let's cut this down a little bit, because there's no need for that, and because the funds actually exist here. Of these funds, a billion 300, as far as they are earmarked for investment, is a large majority of European funds and a large majority of these funds are used in municipalities. For this reason, in general, I simply point out that the obligation must be stopped, not only because of us, but also because of future generations. I appeal or call on colleagues and colleagues to do so with the support of the amendment to Article 7. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u241	Thank you. We are still in the debate on Article 1. Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u242	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! I would now like to discuss ZIPRO as an implementing document, an implementing regulation, and unfortunately it has not been so for quite some time now. I would also like to see the Minister of Finance present in this Chamber, if not the President of the Government. The Minister of Finance, because we are now adopting a rebalancing, and if my behaviour is correct, the budget or rebalancing is the most important act adopted in this house, and unfortunately the Minister is not here. That makes me very sad. So I can get back to the ZIPRO content. The amendment to Article 1 also gives me quite a bit of grief when I recall that night's meeting of the Finance Committee, when our amendments, the Desus amendments, were proposed. On this occasion, once again, I thank the social bloc, the Social Democrats and the United Left for supporting us here. However, it was not voted on. I will not insist, and Desus here will not insist on amending Article 1. However, we see an additional security guard here, with what the distinguished Madam Secretary of State has said, under redeployments, although I do not know why there are so many transfers. Is it really such a bad thing that I'm just referring to redeployments? Possible rebalancing – I hope that we will not become world champions in the rebalancing. I know that pension, pension payments are constitutional rights and that all pensioners will be granted a smooth pension payment. So we won't insist here. We wanted one extra security guard, but I'm sure we would have taken advantage of it really by the time it became necessary. Then of course. But okay, let's go through, let's get through this. Valorization, yes. Valorization, yes. Not so much because Desusa's program says that pensions will be coordinated. It's not that important. Perhaps it is more important because the coalition agreement states that under certain conditions, which I will then express explicitly, we will coordinate pensions. But even more important coordination is because we want to stop the real fall in pensions, which my colleague Vrtovec warned about earlier, and we want to stop now and at this point. Above all, coordination of pensions is essential because we do not want pensioners to live, as formerly said by colleague Jurš, with 200, 300, 400 euros of pension. 400 euros in pension and less. On the basis of 40 years of pension payments, they cannot afford ovens, as colleague Jurša plastically said. This is a disgrace to this country and, last but not least, a reminder to all of you who do not support the fact that pensions are actually rising and are no longer falling. Your Honor! This isn't a budget blow. That's helping the pensioners. This could be a blow to the pensioners, it could be a blow if we don't accept it, to the social state, legally. But you're on Desus's side, and I believe there's another party in this national council and I wish we didn't all want to, and we won't let that happen. Now, for a very short time, he sums up everything we want in this story. We wish very little for each other. What we have already explicitly written, what we have said several times, what my President Erjavec said at the top of the coalition, what my Jurša said in Parliament, and what I said on the Committee on Finance. We want pensions to be brought together and we are also prepared for some compromise, because we are aware that the financial situation is as it is, and does not bear all our wishes and all our needs. We want a clear assurance from the Government, President of the Government, that if the official data on gross social product growth for last year is higher than 2.5%, in accordance with existing legislation and in the coalition pension agreement for this year, pensions will be harmonised. As we say, however, we are also prepared to compromise on the very realization of the said, so that the matter is prolonged in January 2016, which will not burden this budget and will remain deficit at 2,8936 I do not know how many decimal places are still here. [[...]] That's all we want, and we want clear assurances. I said this morning that the balance of the budget, such as it is, is not ideal, cannot be ideal in these circumstances, everyone is not satisfied with it, but there is one good basis for us to continue the path, to continue the path of a legal and social state, and above all a just state. And if what I have read very slowly and very precisely, so little on our part of the required, respected or if it will be – not here – to us, to the Members of Desus, but to someone else, but, say, to the pensioners who are under the social bed – assured that we will get a clear and explicit explanation, then there is no reason not to support all the documents that will be on the bench tomorrow. Otherwise, respected colleagues, respected colleagues, respected government and the first among ministers, we have serious concerns. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u243	Thank you. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u244	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Respected and respected! Desus proposed the amendment in order to maintain the guardianship mechanism for the pension system under Article 1 of the novel. We have done so in particular to ensure that pensions are paid in case the pension fund runs out of money. And I'm not going to argue that this would really happen, but we wanted it as a security guard to fit in. I am also taking advantage of the possibility to discuss this article a little wider, since Article 1 of the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015. I will say this: indeed, I also understand that the country is in difficulty, because of the lack of financial resources, there is less money for the implementation of all the programmes that the budget must provide. This is how money is lacking for social transfers, for health care, for education and for all other things; I will not be listed here in broad terms. That was why the budget was drawn up, said Mr Marble, the most difficult Minister of Finance today. I understand that it is important that, therefore, in the medium and long term, because we are in crisis, we should not spend on what we create. I also believe that it is very important, and we are also very much discussing this in this national assembly as well as in the committees, in order to restore citizens' confidence in the rule of law. I will say this: it must never happen again that, at the time of universal denial, some people collect profits, at the expense of workers who do not pay their salaries, who do not pay their contributions and other obligations. And it should never happen again that without much debate and without bad conscience, banks, those who have blamed the inefficiencies of banks, have not been responsible for their conduct to date, at least not to a large extent. Even all those who have unjustifiably acquired social property and those who have acquired property through programmed bankruptcys and then hidden it in tax havens have not yet been discovered and brought to justice. It is true that the investigating authorities are acting faster, but citizens expect these people to be found, brought to justice faster, and they believe that this is all going too slowly. I will also say this: on the other hand, we tighten our belts to the most affected people, to the most vulnerable groups of citizens, to the unemployed who have lost their jobs, to those who do not get a job, and to those young people who live in despair, because they also have no chance of employment. See, even pensioners, there has been a lot of talk today in this national assembly, there are a very vulnerable group of people. He also reported that a large number of pensioners live in poverty, receive a very low pension, and that someone needs to take care of it. The fact that people live below the poverty threshold, that those who have worked their entire lives have paid pensions, then do not receive a decent amount of pension to ensure their basic survival, is, to say the least, inappropriate. That is why I will say, as Franz Jursza asked earlier whether we who are today in this national assembly could survive from 300 or 400 euros a month. That's very bad, and I know you couldn't survive 300 euros a month. In Desus, we will define how we will vote tomorrow, because our amendment to the home committee was not supported. Tomorrow, because we expect, as Mr Prikl has already said before me, that this government will ensure that, if the social product for 2014 is 2.5% and more, it will ensure that pensions are coordinated, that the government will then give instructions that the PPIZ will account for the reconciliation of pensions. We know that we do not have the resources available for this in the budget now, so we are also ready to accept that the payment is deferred to January of next year. So, as I said, we will decide tomorrow, and I appeal to all of you to understand that these people are really living in trouble and that it is not appropriate to treat this group of people who have actually built everything we have in this country today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u245	Thank you. Please, fellow Members of the House for Peace – we have had a little discussion – and let the debateers discuss it. Before I re-enable the application to the debate, I also give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary of Mags. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Once again, I would like to explain the difference in the data that I have provided myself, compared to the data that Mr Mesec provided. Mr Mesec provided information on expenditure in pension protection policy, and this information does not only cover transfers to the pension fund of the Pension and Disability Insurance Institute, but also other expenditure on pension protection that is not directly related to these transfers. We have special arrangements to pay certain outstanding liabilities to craftsmen who had a special pension protection regime until 1982 and so on. However, I myself referred to transfers to public institutions in the field of social protection, and from here the difference between yours and my information. Once again, the adopted budget for 2015 and the adopted financial plan for the 2015 pension fund provided for Kad to contribute to the pension transfer of 50 million in the event of possible harmonisation and 140 million in the case of privatisation. Since the Slovenian State Holding Act was amended in spring 2014 in such a way that this privatisation transfer was no longer foreseen, it is not possible to count on this transfer and the difference between this transfer must cover an additional transfer from the state budget, which we have estimated, in view of the better income from pension security contributions, that it will not have to be fully covered, but only in a certain part. With regard to the other general debates, I would like to point out that the provision referring to debt refers to the maximum possible extent of indebtedness and does not mention that the State will in fact have to be fully indebted to that amount, but allows this amount to be taken actively into account in public debt management policies and offers wider opportunities to achieve more favourable conditions both for borrowing on the one hand and for payment of existing debt on the other. With regard to the Disbursement Programme, I should point out that, in accordance with the Public Finance Act, immediately after the adoption of the budget rebalancing, a so-called State Budget Financing Programme must be prepared, and this is also, in fact, – otherwise, one would argue that, in particular, that the debt programme is, but also, the debt scheme in this funding programme is covered. And also regarding the position of the Bank's SID. This one's still not sure at the moment. At the end of last year, the European Statistical Office decided to review whether the whole SID or part of its operations should be included in the State sector, but this inclusion or exclusion does not have a direct impact on the State budget's balance sheet, nor on the provisions of the law on the implementation of the budget as regards the debt of the State budget, and the SID is a separate company which is insolvent. And the claim that the State will have to pay its debts in one way or another because it guarantees to a certain extent the payment of the SID's debts is in fact a non-trust to SID, as we know that the guarantor enters into the payment of the guaranteed debt only if the underlying debtor cannot do so. Given the current situation, we estimate that this is not the case. Therefore, the possible inclusion of the SID of the bank in the sector would have an impact on the general scope or the level of the public debt or debt of the State sector as a whole, but would not have an impact on the resources allocated in the State budget to service public debt, not on the extent of the State budget's debt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u247	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u248	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Unfortunately, I will not support the proposed amendment of the United Left, because it comes from the very explanation itself. You know, the payment of pensions can be threatened by a lot of things and, in the first place, by an unwise policy that can be managed. And here we need to be aware that the pensioners in Slovenia have been duped several times by politics. When they were duped at the expense of the great promises made by the party in question, I said earlier, but it seems pointless to repeat. And I'm afraid there are really new elections coming when this particular party starts talking about pensions. And since this concerned party and the Members of this party say that the Minister is not here, that it is only the Secretary of State, that I should take him to the defence and please, Madam President, consider, dear coalition, whether or not to take the hour off, and call on the Minister to come and explain to you what is going on with pensions. As a representative of the younger generation of politicians, I want the pension in this country to continue to be the right deriving from work. And that these are only the highest, that these are only the highest. But pensions won't be high unless we work in parallel on positive economic movements. The economy and pensions go hand in hand, but it's not going to work. In Novi Slovenija you mark us as such and different. In New Slovenia we have always been a supporter of pensioners, because we are committed to a stable, stable and well-functioning economy. But this economy will not be the same as the proposed law on the implementation of budgets. 'Cause what does it contain? Contains additional debt. It allows, allows for additional borrowing. And here's the key problem. Today we are in charge of about 80% of gross domestic product. It's not just us sitting here. This is where our children are in charge. And we are paying more than a billion EUR 100 million for interest alone. I understand that, given the macroeconomic indicators that are at this moment, the sweetness of the additional debt, the so-called debt to the stock, because we have low interest rates, and that this malaise has increased significantly. But you know, it's just a temptation, and the wrong move will be if Slovenia is really committed to almost €4 billion from the current €2.7 billion. Because if the Ministry of Finance did not have such accounts, such conjecture, then it would not be proposed in a bill. Those of you who are advocates of social policy, or who say you are defenders, are also inhibiting privatisation, but one important fact: by privatisation we do not lose sovereignty, as you claim. But we're losing her with an extra debt. This is proposed by this law on the implementation of budgets. That's why I won't personally support the whole marriage. This article, the Honourable United Left, is indeed not because it makes absolutely no sense to this amendment of yours. Once again, as a representative of the younger generation of politicians, I do not care what is happening and what are the pensions of the deserving people who, as you said in the introduction, have built this country. But I'm not just saying that. And I'm not saying that pensions will be thousands of euros, but with positive economic policies they may someday be. So, the words are too small, you have to do something. President-in-Office, and for the end of this: talk to the coalition about the Minister coming, then I am, because it appears that you are already severely slaughtered in this budget, and of course this is not in the interests of this country. Invite the minister at last, won't you?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u249	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u250	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Secretary of State with colleagues, dear colleagues and colleagues! In some previous discussions, it was felt that Nova Slovenija was blocking the coordination, increase and increase of pensions, and that is not the case. Some people seem to have a bad memory, and I'm gonna freshen it up a little bit. We were in the coalition, of course, with Desus, in the 2004-2008 mandate. From our parliamentary or client types came the finance minister Dr. Bayuk and the minister responsible for pensions, mag. Janez Petty Officer. In 2005, we adopted a law, reconciled pensions and calculated that the government of Rob, where there was also a party in favour of pensions and pensioners – and thank God that we have such a party – this party and, in particular, Slovenian pensioners, not so much a party, dragged by the nose. I think in four years they've been cheated on for two and a half pensions. We fixed it, the then coalition, so I don't own it on behalf of the party. Ladies and gentlemen, we find and only find that we are running out of money for education. But what do we do? Will we still stand up for each school wall to make a state budget? Every wall? That every chalk will buy a state budget? All right, if most are for this, then the money for education will continue to run out and we will still not be satisfied with the results, with the personnel that the school system gives us. We're running out of health money. Do we agree? Looks like it. Why? We know the answers, too. There is also talk of a medical mafia that provides strong medicine, investment, and so on. Do we do anything about it? We don't do anything, nothing. I think we're also misinterpreting what public health is actually. We're not doing anything! We talk more about euthanasia than about treatment, about shorter waiting lines and so on. We have no strategy! We're also talking about what's painful about low pensions. No, people can't survive with 400 euros. Just as only those who get nothing because the government, including the two parties in the current coalition, took the so-called state pensions and received nothing today. We also need to talk about these once, dear colleagues and colleagues. What do we need? We need something that will fill the pension and health allowance and the state budget more intensively. When are we gonna sit down and talk about these things? Without a connection, there are hundreds of hours of discussions on the budget, no connections. The government has professional staff, cuts the cake, knows how big it is, and what it doesn't do. Indeed, we cannot, in fact, have any variations on the subject of the draft budget or today's rebalancing, which the Government has brought to Parliament. Without a connection, there are hundreds of hours of debate! We better sit down and consider what the strategy for the development of Slovenia is, what we will do, what we will do to make these subsystems of which I have talked about, once and for all, sustainable health treasury, to be sustainable, to be sustainable if you want, school cash registers – we do not have a special – and that it will be sustainable, for God's sake, also pension bills and that pensions will be high. I, too, if God wants me to experience it, I'd like to have a decent pension once, and my kids and so on. But nothing, nothing can be done. This is a problem that really grieves me personally, and I apologize for perhaps a bit of an emotional performance. The country also has some companies. What's going on? Now we hear that DUTB's head will be cut off, other people will come and so on. It's some kind of turbulence again, some sort of disorder, and I don't know if anything's gonna come out of it. Apparently, back there are some lobbyists who have appetites for property that may be cheap to buy from the DUTB. In the region where I come from, there is a state-owned company, Nafta Lendava, in which workers have not been paid for several months. I hear the director gets a salary from SDH. I don't know how. He's been gone for a long time in Lendava. The workers don't get paid. The company doesn't go to bankruptcy. They can't go to the institution. Look, what kind of country is this?Oh, my God! What country is this?Oh, my God! Not to say, speaking of finances and dealing with this issue, the state is a poor mercenary. We have cohesion projects, municipalities run, run projects, the state doesn't pay the contractors, and even the mayor has to get some bridging credit against the law. Is that the order?Oh, my God! It's not! We need to talk about this. And I find it difficult to agree to an explanation by the Government that the averages are falling in the second half of this year because such an agreement is with the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia and with the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia. Yeah, okay, let's say that this deal was, but no mayor is satisfied. And it was barely concluded that the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia has already sent us a letter that article 46a was said to have been planted. You'll read it yourself. I won't have any reading exercises here. And, as I said, in the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015, the determination of the average is not in accordance with the Law on the Financing of the Communities. Read Article 12. I have quoted him in part in the presentation of our Group of Members. We estimate that the provision on the average in non-compliance with Article 12 of the Law on the Financing of Municipalities. Not to mention, colleagues and colleagues, the International Charter, the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which the Republic of Slovenia has also signed. See Article 9, which discusses the financial resources of local authorities and also says: "In order to protect financially weaker local communities, financial compensation procedures or other appropriate measures should be introduced to remedy the effects of the uneven distribution of possible financial resources and the financial burden they bear. Such attempts or measures shall not reduce the freedom of local authorities to decide on their tasks." This is what the European Charter of Local Self-Government, ratified by the Republic of Slovenia or the National Assembly, says. Somehow it seems to me that the only right - hand political hemisphere is the one that advocates a system of local communities that advocates the congregation. All of us would, on a flat-rate basis, reduce their funding without any analysis of the municipality, on the other hand, and in the same breath, we all say that last year's economic growth is also at the expense of projects implemented at local level or, if you like, at the expense of last year's municipal elections. I wish they were every year! I wish they were every year. It is very difficult to understand that after 20 years of local self-government there are many appetites who would like to easily decompose this system of local self-government, which runs between 70% and 80% of all public investments. And we don't have TES 6 or anything like that. It's already happened. I don't put my hand in the fire for every project, it already happens, but I think it's true that every euro will turn twice before it invests. I'm concluding. I wouldn't want to burn it. Just one morning, one thought to explain, because some people call us liberals. One trip to philosophy from high school years, and only one paragraph read what liberalism really is. Let me explain that classical liberalism comes from Christianity. In the 18th century, when classical liberalism begins to emerge, the understanding of freedom has sat on the hummus of Christian values, on the hummus of Christian view of the world, which is a view based on cardinal values, namely reasonableness, moderation, justice and heart. These are values that hold a person within such a framework that he is constructive to the world, to his fellowman, and to himself. It is said that freedom is not abused, but freedom is properly used to build and create. This is why classical liberalism has brought much good to society, especially in the economic field. I apologize for this lesson, but it's obviously necessary sometimes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u251	Thank you. We shall proceed with the debate on Article 1. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u252	Good evening, everyone! I would also be very happy if I could support the amendment proposed by the two parties. At least one is here to defend his views, and the other is no longer in the hall. So much for the seriousness of the amendments. And yet, look, the right to a pension. Is this perhaps more different than the right to work or the wages of those who work honestly and do not receive wages? Is this significantly different from the right of compulsory children, which is in the constitution, and in fact parents do not have the basic means to go to school? You know, I really wish those pensions were bigger, and that's not why their social distress is even greater, but there's another problem. Last but not least, dear colleagues from Desus, don't mind me, but sometimes I get the feeling that you're more than some interesting group, because sometimes you're too tight to defend individual parts, but that's right. However, see if what you're saying would actually be true, are you not one of those parties that was practically sitting in all the coalitions? And what are these pensions? Today we are back at that point when we are talking about coordination, about the fact that there is no money for pensions in the country. Don't you think that there isn't enough money in the country that those of today's younger generation won't have any more pensions? That's what he says. That's what's threatening us, and that's the problem. Last but not least, I would be very happy if you were so zealous in promoting pensions even when we were talking about privileged pensions, where we could take something from somewhere else. These are some duplicity, but still, as it is said, I would be very pleased to be able to support this amendment, not only this amendment, but also the law, but unfortunately the situation in the country is as it is. You may laugh, but, Mr Jurša, it is also right to remind you of some other important things in this law, given that you once sat in the mayoral office. The fact is that the averages now being reduced by the Government are threatening investments in municipalities. Many congregations will no longer have to invest and operate normally. I am also talking about the issue of proportionality, given the legal provisions that the congregation must comply with. This is a problem, and we are reminded by the congregations themselves. It is also true that an agreement was somehow reached between the Government and the two associations of the congregations, but the following were agreed there. In the event that the Government does not provide these 22.8 million in the context of so-called austerity measures, the funds will seek elsewhere. This was a commitment, but we do not see this commitment in this bill. Why is it not, for example, in the transitional provisions of this law? You just forgot that. It's just a promise, or you'll actually make it happen. After literally driving the congregations through the water, the insurance of the unemployed also shows. They were also promised this when an agreement was reached to be included in the measures and this is not the case. That is why a number of letters and warnings are coming today that they will no longer be able to survive. In short, I can't support this amendment, not because I don't want higher pensions. On the contrary, I wish the promise of your party's president to come true when he spoke of a thousand euros in pension. I would very much like to, but unfortunately for now, given the state of the country, including your responsibility, the respected Desus, who you are practically all the time in the government, that is not possible. It's just not possible. And I really hope that you will be as zealous as you are today to defend your amendment – and once again, with all due respect, it is right to stand up for the pensioners – to support the other amendments, where other social groups such as children, such as the police, and so on, and that we will not share things on the basis of what that narrow political interest is. In short, there is great happiness in adopting this law in terms of a coalition that is actually far from the agreed orchestra. Each and every one of them.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u253	Thank you. Did you want a replica? Mr. Urosh Prikl, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u254	Thank you very much, Madam President. I didn't mean to drop by, but it still bit me a little bit, and I'd like to replicate very briefly to my beloved colleague Anja. No, we do not take a bitter stand, we do not bitterly defend the amendment because we do not have it or have not submitted it. But we were bitterly defending and trying to get through the amendment on the working body, and unfortunately, apart from the social bloc, no one listened and went through these amendments. Of course, Desus was in many coalitions, even in the coalition with the SDS, and unfortunately we did not achieve all the wishes we had at the time. Today, however, we want to stop the trend of falling pensions, we just want to stop the trend of falling, maintain the real value of pensions, and we have not yet received assurances from the coalition or from the opposition that we will be able to achieve this. We're not doing this for ourselves. We're doing this for 600,000 pensioners. More than half of these live on the edge or under the edge of social exclusion. My friend Swirl, that's all before it's funny. That we are an interest group – we are a political party, a serious political party that is aware of its responsibilities, aware of its promises and aware of its mission. I believe that you have it, too, and if, dear fellows and colleagues, if so, let us support our ideas, let us bear in mind that many people live below or on the edge of the social minimum. That's all I'm gonna do, and then I'm gonna finish. It does not seem right, however, when we compare individual groups of the population, pensioners with low-income workers, with socially disadvantaged and so on. You know, at every point, we try to help the most vulnerable target groups. I think we've done a lot of action already, and we're going to do a lot more to enable new jobs, to allow people to get more than those minimum wages and so on. But here, I'm asking you nicely, and the pensions are not competition, so I guess they're not competition. If we give good pensions and they can't be comparable wages, please. Pensions are a well-deserved income, pensions are, after all, a constitutional right. And they're actually falling. Today you get something for your pension, in a year and two and half of that. Let's stop it. I don't think my time is up yet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u255	Mr Ivan Hršak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u256	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Unfortunately, in the Chamber, I do not see Minister Marble, who in my opinion should be here, because he will be assigned a large part of my debate. While it is crystal clear to me that the adoption of this year's rebalancing and ZIPRS is very important, I would say the most difficult so far and that we are forced to achieve a deficit of less than 3%. To actually achieve this goal, there will be a number of people in their area who will have to give up. Unfortunately, there's no other way. However, this objective is also achieved in a way that respects the previously clearly stated commitments in the Coalition Treaty. Yes, I think of the possible regular harmonisation of pensions, in the event of a growth of more than 2,5 % of the gross social product in last year. We need to know that for 40 years, people have paid for their pension to have a decent pension. What was the actual growth of gross social product in last year, we do not know this moment, this will be known somewhere at the end of March. In government and especially in the Ministry of Finance, it appears to be spreading dementia. They forget their commitments every day, and when Members of Parliament and Members of Desus remind them of them, they learn something new. That's typical of dementia. It is therefore not right that Minister Marble says in advance when there is no information at all about the growth of gross social product that it is possible to align pensions with the increase in wages and living costs to the last-minute budget impact. It's a hoax, Mr. Minister Marble. This was written last year in a coalition contract. But your statement is a real blow, in fact a diversion to our coalition contract, which is not respected. At the beginning of my term of office, I have heard you say or declare that you do not know the coalition treaty and that you do not even care what it says. If this is true, it is very worrying, including for the other two coalition partners. When you reminded or urged the Greeks days ago to respect and fulfil their respective commitments, I fully agree with you. But the same goes for you. If you insist on your own, then this means that you obviously do not need 10 votes from the Desus Group to adopt the budget balance and to adopt the ZIPRS. Okay, then me or my colleagues and my colleagues no longer have the obligation to respect this coalition contract. At this point, the big question is how will I vote tomorrow. If, by the end of this debate today or at least tomorrow before the vote, I do not get firm assurances from the representatives of the Government that there will be a way to harmonise the pensions of the Fund would be indicated by Kad anyway. [[...]] In principle, this should not burden the budget, although it also shows otherwise. Another appropriate solution would be for this harmonisation to take place after the new year. This would burden the budget in 2016 and remove this elegantly. That is to say, unless such or other appropriate solution is indicated, the reconciliation of pensions, then I really don't know which key I'm going to press tomorrow. If I accidentally push the counter button against it, given the pre-announced, I won't have a bad conscience. Now I would like to say something more in view of the unwarranted allegations made by opposition colleagues and colleagues earlier. Desus was made clear that we have been coalition partners in almost all previous governments and that we are guilty of this. However, we must be aware that Desus had his weight in those coalitions, given the number of Members who were small. Here I must make it clear that we have had a limited impact, proportionate to this number, and that the greatest burden lies with the greatest responsibility of the largest coalition party. Up until now, they have always shown, even though today they speak differently about how to reduce pensions and how to eliminate the annual regression for pensioners. Of course, this idea came to everyone because the pensioners are now over 600,000 and it's a large mass, and it's the most basic way, the easiest way to sort things out. Our only strong argument in these governments was that we were somehow a language on the scale and that on this basis we were able to mitigate the destructive proposals for pensioners. If it were not for Desus, if it were not for Desus' constant, persistent opposition to these proposals, here I am referring to the SDS, which today speaks quite differently, even though we have previously heard how they are now taking sides for the pensioners. NSI has a lot to say about this, too. So there were SLS, Positive Slovenia. We've had this unpleasant experience with them, too. Also with ZaAB, because Minister Cuffer at the American Chamber of Commerce just said in English that it would be necessary to lower pensions so that maybe we wouldn't hear it. In short, if Desus wasn't [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Don't laugh. If it weren't for Desus and if it didn't work out the way it is, today our pensions would be at the Balkan level for our pensioners. Luckily, Desus is here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u257	Replica, Jerny Swirl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u258	Dear colleagues and colleagues! This time we were mentioned in the New Slovenia Group, which is why I replicate. When you talk about how you assured that pensions are what they are, and what infirmities you had in the past, because you were a small group of Members and so on. However, you have always been a language on the scale, and I remember when Borut Pahor composed the government in 2008 to offer you the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, but you did not accept it, this ministry. But then there's no responsibility to accept it. You've always been a tongue on the scale and conditioned, if that's not the case, we're out of the coalition. With all due respect, but once again, I stress that we will only raise our pensions by making positive economic trends. There's no blackmailing. This debate, and this controversy between us and you, is well-intentioned, believe me, and obliges me to fight even more as a member of this national council, that I will also be called a commitment in the implementation law on fiscal rule during the period of the transition and positive economic growth. Because otherwise we'll get to what you're talking about. When we have economic growth, we'll share candy, we'll share candy. You're saying you don't know how you're going to vote tomorrow, but I'm helping you decide, because I've been following politics for about 15 years, 10 years professionally as a pianist. I'm telling you, you're going to vote in favour. I'm telling you, because you're going to be taking this to the end. And if it doesn't, I'll take you out for a drink, my friends. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u259	That wasn't a replica. The replica usually begins by saying what was wrong with you and starting from there, but instead you could re-register and basically replicate. Excuse me? Procedural? A replica of what's supposed to be a replica isn't a replica, it's not possible. Let me check in with the next one, and you'll tell me what you have. You are also using your time for a replica or for a discussion. I give the word "magic." Anzeta Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u260	Thank you, President. The completion of the implementation of the colleague Hrsak has already been very pre-eminently dyed. I don't know if it was the announcement of tomorrow's vote, or whether it was part of the tactic that my colleague Vrtovec put to good use. But I'll allow you one more word about that. We allow the possibility that if Desus were not in all the governments so far, pensions would still be higher because the standard would be different. Now for the debate itself. Let me begin with just one such symbolic framework. Today, when we talk about the pensions of Slovenian pensioners, the respected Minister of Finance is not here. Tomorrow, when the Greeks' pensions are discussed in Brussels, the Minister of Finance is likely to sit there. So much for respecting today's debate in the National Assembly. Now, as far as ZIPRO is concerned. In its introduction, the Secretary of State said that ZIPRO represents the solutions necessary for the smooth implementation of the budget. And in these solutions, which are necessary for the smooth implementation of the budget, it raises the foreign debt line from 2.7 billion to 4 billion. This is essential for the functioning of the country in the budget, which is supposed to be a developmental one which is expected to bring some new impetus in 2015 and which will reverse this trend that we have ahead of us. Let me remind you that this government has been in power for six months. For five months, the Minister of Finance, who is not here today, negotiated. But today the coalition that is supposed to present this budget, which is supposed to present the ZIPRO, as we see, is not harmonised. I have listened carefully to both representatives, Mr Hrsak and Mr Jurša, about the amendment of the United Left. You said a lot of smart things. Among other things, Mr Hršak said that, in the case of ZIPRO, it was an attack on the coalition contract. That's right. That's right. The government, with this budget balance and with ZIPro, is impacting on the coalition contract itself, which it has signed. In his introduction to the previous debate, Mr Jurša spoke about the fact that pensioners are writing to them about how they are being oppressed and how there will be no increase in pensions and the coordination of pensions – yes, there will be no reconciliation of pensions – and that is why they are asking questions today. But then the Member of Parliament comes forward and says they do not know how to vote today, but they hope to do so tomorrow. If today's debate is a matter of your negotiating position, then not only within the coalition, but also within your own party, harmonise to achieve what you want to harmonise. And if you then, after what you have said today and after a very high-quality debate by my colleague Gantar, who I believe has highlighted the right things, supported this poor budget, the undeveloped budget, the budget that provides, develops and establishes the status quo in 2015, then you will simply vote against your Members. It will therefore be interesting to monitor how you vote in tomorrow's vote. Because something is true: all but three coalition parties reject ZIPRO and reject the balance of the budget. So if Desus is behind the words he said today, these two documents will fall tomorrow. Otherwise, today it's just a show for the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u261	The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance mag has the floor. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u262	Thank you so much for saying that. Several times in these last debates and throughout the day, the word respect was mentioned. I would like this standard to apply to the Minister, even though he is absent today. Not because I'd look into the air and not know what to do with myself, but because he has a lot of responsibilities. Which, in which areas, you certainly know at least as well as I do. And if he is not here with us right now, this is certainly because he has another matter to settle in order to be able to fulfil what he has also provided to this national assembly before the start of his post, in order to allow this country to return to a path of stable economic development or re-growth through public financial policy. With regard to the discussions which took place in this Article 1 concerning the municipalities or the financing of municipalities and the agreement with the municipalities, the following. The agreement with the municipalities on the average in 2015 was concluded. It was concluded with two representative associations that have the authority to represent the interests of the congregations in their discussions with the State. The Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia also participated in the talks, but since it does not have representation status under law, the agreement was not signed with them. It is true that the agreement contains provisions which are not included in the law. But why aren't they included in the marriage? Because they're not marital matter. The law includes what is legal matter. The State's commitment to provide measures to reduce the cost of working the municipalities up to 30. 6. in the amount of 22.8 million, the commitment, which is signed on all three sides, is as binding for us as it would have been if it were included in the law. If we tried to include it in the law, we would get a comment from the Legal and Legislative Service that it was a matter of non-legislative matter. That's why we didn't even marry her. The fact that we did not agree with the municipalities to restrict funds to the appropriate consumption or limitation of the so-called solidarity settlement this year is not true. This has been reported to the congregations, but together we have found that this is not a solution for which, according to the legislation in force, we could or could conclude agreements. As a result, this solution is not included in the agreement, and in the discussions the municipalities have been constantly informed that it is an integral part of the solutions that we will propose in the law on budget implementation. And with this, a specific provision was made on the last day before the agreement was signed. In parallel with the negotiations on the average agreement, discussions were held on measures to reduce the cost of working the municipalities. And the result of these conversations was the law you'll be considering tomorrow. It is true that I did not participate in these discussions alone at all times. For this reason, I do not know if there may be any open questions, but the fact is that the law includes solutions on which consensus has been reached. A list of what is going on in the bill was also agreed with the congregations, as well as with the congregations in the agreed 20 areas in which we will work up to 30. 6. and looking for extra savings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u263	I ask if anyone else wants to discuss Article 1 and the amendment. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u264	Thank you very much. This time it's really very short. I said I'd expect the minister to be here. I suppose this is what I can expect when the most important act in the National Assembly is adopted, this is a budget or a rebalancing. But okay. My colleague Vrtovec said he knew that we would vote for the rebalancing of members of Desus. I sincerely want to vote for this rebalance, although, as I have already said, it is not ideal, but it is optimal in the given situation. I want to vote yes. However, I will vote for when I get the guarantee, clearly, explicitly, unequivocally, that we will harmonise pensions for 2015 and prolong this matter by implementing harmonisation in January 2016. Well, that's very simple. This is very little that Desus, as a guarantor for the smooth payment of pensions throughout all these periods, expects. Now there's something else. The claim that pensions are paid to pay lose their real value, unfortunately, my dears, is true. By the way, if it wasn't for Desus, we'd be losing more. Now that Desus wants to stop this trend, when he wants these pensions to be aligned after a long five-year period, I don't know what percentage, for a minimum percentage, and that the real value of pensions, which at this point are such as to keep, is not to be supported! Then I don't know how to do this mission, this desire that pensions preserve their value and that pensioners live a decent life, do it, but if we don't have any other mechanisms than just to warn that we're trying to propose and that we want as much support as possible. Then I really don't get it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u265	A replica? Okay. Replica, mag. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u266	Thank you very much, President. I will only replicate the Participant with regard to the assurance that pensions will be coordinated. Just a question about that. What, though, is stronger than a coalition agreement? What, though, could be stronger than what the full presidents of the three coalition parties have done with their signatures to ensure to their electorates and voters? I don't see any stronger assurances than that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u267	Although I am a very logical man, I do not understand the question. So it's a replica abuse. Please continue with this, but I'm not going to put a replica on the replica. Procedural? So you want to abuse procedurally. Okay. You have a word for procedural, because I can't stop it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u268	Of course, I don't want to abuse it at all, but one procedure or way is a coalition agreement through which some ideas can be realized. However, I estimate that, given that the growth data of gross social product will be known after the rebalancing is either accepted or rejected, and ZIPro as a result – we are currently talking about ZIPro. So I think we're going to get him under the roof tomorrow — I want to do it again. However, since this information will only be known later, and I want this guarantee, this will assure the government. And that's it. We continue to understand the coalition treaty as a powerful moment and strongly ensure that this coalition continues to lead its mission properly and well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u269	Yes, as I suspected, it would be a procedural abuse. I have to remind you because you abused procedurally to stick to what happened before. Now I'd like to ask that we try to stick to what's dark. We are talking about Article 1 and the amendment to Article 1 of ZIPRO. Since Article 1 is relatively broad, a relatively broad debate is admissible. For discussion with other Members, I ask that you use the replicas instead of replicas, at least when you have time – you cannot use the replica differently than if you still have time. Let's try to pull this thing off this half hour as we're doing today, and then we'll probably go on to ZIPRO tomorrow. Mrs Maria Antonija Kovacič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u270	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good evening, everyone! Madam Secretary, you have responded to all the circumstances caused by our application for pension security in a thorough manner at the coordination meeting. But when I hear the amendment makes no sense, because the pension box is full, let me ask you something else. Why was the Minister of Finance's reaction on Friday night so boisterous? Where you're going to take 30 million, he said. Such a statement once again casts doubt on me that this security is only not as safe as you assure us. Our amendment, however, only assured the pensioner that the Government is committed to believing and experiencing a realistically harmonised pension because it is no joke that among pensioners the risk of poverty is highest in single-member pension households and especially in pensioners themselves, who are no longer able to help themselves. The leader of our group likes to say Are you still here? Don't you have a warm home? When I think about the true meaning of those words, I'm disgusted because I know how many people don't have a warm home right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u271	Mr Matjaž German has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u272	Thank you, Mr. President. Since politics is often wiser and wiser to be quiet, I regret that this time I have decided on the stupider version, it is said that I will not be silent. In fact, I've been listening for an hour and a half to everything on this agenda item, and here I'm going to touch my colleagues from the coalition, especially Desus' intervention, the Democratic Party of the Retired. In my first debate in the afternoon, my answer was to the obvious that we are not united, especially that we do not need to be equal, but we need to be united. There are at least two parties in this story, both the Democratic Party of Pensioners and the Social Democrats. At the invitation of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons, we immediately came to the rescue because it seemed important to support one of the weaker, vulnerable groups. But that's not the only one, you know? We are aware not only of the fact that pensions are low, that some status needs to be maintained for the weakest, but even more than that we are aware that we need to maintain the possibility that I, that my generation, will get generations behind me at all. My call to the coalition is like that. Look, I think Desus' excessive response to this subject. There was a committee yesterday. Unfortunately, it didn't go through. I'm telling you this as your comrade. We're three partners. We'll make up our minds tomorrow. The presidents were here this morning. I don't think it's fair that you're taking advantage of this opportunity to tell the public what it wasn't possible to do. At the previous point, opposition parties proposed at least 40 amendments and did not act as insulted as you do at the moment. And I'm also offended because it doesn't go through. Believe me, I'll sign for it tomorrow with a duck in my throat. But as a coalition party, we have certain responsibilities, especially for citizens. And if we don't stick together, then no one in this coalition will stick together. So please try to understand us, we are on the same boat, and to bring this boat to its end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u273	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. The word is from Dr. Franz the Crusader.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u274	Thank you very much, President. High choir! I have some responses to the current debate on the subject of ZIPRO, which is the problem of adapting pensions and other contributions or other state transfers to the population, in particular those with very low incomes, there is a problem. From 2008 to 2014, our living costs rose by 9.4% in Slovenia. In 2009, there were some minor repairs, not later. This is for those under Gossen's second law, we say economists, for those who have low incomes, a very severe blow, much bigger than those who have averages, much less for those who have upper averages. The Coalition Summit has already decided a few days ago that this problem will begin to solve seriously, with a view to preparing an overall model on which both pensions and other social expenditure, including child allowances and financial social assistance, will begin to be coordinated. The second thing I would like to say is about the debate on how the country should respond. In the economic field, we are talking about liberalism in terms of faith in the invisible hand, which is said to be a balance in full employment. The invisible hand was not the first to be talked about by enlightened people, where we can count Adam Smith in some way, but Hayek is already quoting that Aristofan spoke about it in one of his less famous comedies. I think it's called Ecclesiaszae. He said that evil, however, makes sense because of a higher principle that operates at the level of society as a whole. So this principle of liberalism is, in economic terms, much older than enlightening.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u275	Mr. Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u276	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Once again, I would not support this amendment proposed by the United Left. The reasons why not, I have already said in previous discussions. However, the problem that I see in the entire budget implementation law, as I have already said, is the debt that this law allows for additional debt from the current EUR 2.7 billion to EUR 3.9 billion. It's our children's debt. This is the sweetness we've seen over the low interest rate. We're in debt to some kind of leap. So today we're in debt for some things that will be 10 years from now, say. But these can only be bitter temptations, bitter temptations. And another reason, the fundamental reason that also convinces me, me and my parliamentary group, the Christian Democrats, that I do not support this law on the implementation of budgets, is the municipalities, this machete attitude towards Slovenian municipalities, towards the Slovenian countryside. Let me give you some information on that. The volume of investment funds is decreasing, but at the same time the legal obligations of the municipalities remain the same. Thus, we are reducing funds to the congregations and, on the other hand, we expect them to do the same. How? How can they do the same if they don't have that kind of money? How should municipalities continue to regulate local infrastructure, sewerage, roads that we know are in what condition? Finally, 11 environmental projects, which are approved projects, are also worth mentioning here, and this money is not in the budget. You said that all of this, including the lower average for municipalities in the second part of 2015, was in line with the representatives of the mayors. Look, we know how coordinated this is. If it were truly coordinated with all the mayors, then Members and Members coming from different parts of this country would not receive daily electronic messages warning us that what you are proposing is wrong and that our mayors will no longer be able to meet the legal obligations. I would like to stress that the municipalities, the smallest of which you have already shown a number of appetites for ending them, today represent some continuous rural development, and this moment in this country the municipalities represent essentially the only investment that is being made in the country. And it's not on the taxpayer's money. To a large extent, this is the money of the European Union, from cohesion funds. That is why I would like to have a very good attitude towards municipalities and mayors, and that because of this, if we adopt this law on the implementation of budgets, it will also lower the standard in the Slovenian countryside – because, I say, the mayors will not be able to comply with these legal obligations imposed on them – the ZIPRO does not support. For the sake of the country, I will vote against it for the people. So, these two fundamental reasons, the possibility of a new debt and the smaller funds to Slovenian municipalities, in the New Slovenia Group we are convinced that we will vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u277	The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance mag has the floor. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u278	Thank you very much. I'm sorry to repeat myself, but obviously we've been talking for almost 13 hours and we're not hearing from each other. 11 cohesion projects have funding of €24 million in the sub-programme for water management and climate change management. This is the whole of the funds earmarked for such programmes, which will be allocated to specific projects when these contracts for projects are possible to be signed, and I say this in essence all day. Once again, the following information. In 2014, a total of €100 million was provided for investments and investment transfers, of which €410 million for municipal investment projects. In the balance of this year's budget, there are 550 million and 487 million for the municipalities. Therefore, it does not hold data that we do not provide funds for investments in municipalities. Even less so, the congregations are the only ones investing in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u279	Does anyone else want to discuss this point? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Tillen Christmas has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u280	Thank you for your word. The main part of this comprehensive debate so far has been on pensions, and on the other hand on borrowing and reducing funds to municipalities, as well as to some others. I'd like to start with the work on pensions. I'm not going to paralyze anything or anything like that, but I would just give some data, if not for another reason, because it makes it easier to create an image of how much the state is currently giving to these purposes. Two things seem important to me here. Firstly, as regards the fiscal framework in terms of the budget, we should stay inside. In this regard, we have worked extremely hard, I think, all of us here and after all, also the Government, which has been working on this for quite some time. Another aspect I see is solidarity with other social groups, given that it is clear through the budget that many or virtually all social groups have suffered or felt pressure from the difficult state of public finances. At this point, I don't think it's time for a group to talk about cutting off something more. I think that when appropriate conditions are met, everyone, including those who have eventually given up the increase in wages and so on, should be discussed. This is a very broad diapozone and it will need to be very tactful, careful, calm in this, because I am still in all of what is happening now, including this economic growth and these first results, which come partly from what the state has actually managed to do within the consolidation of public finances, the promotion of investments and so on, and partly from the outside. So, the economic situation abroad is getting better, the exporters are getting stronger, and I think of it as some kind of seed you have and you sow. Eat it before I sow it or before something grows out, I think it can have too much negative effects on the long term. Here, colleagues advocate the coordination of pensions, which I think is their orientation and also the representation of their values legitimately, but I certainly do not want to see everything fall out in the end, which I believe is not their intention to hold on to all other social groups for hostages. Still, I have to get to the stats now. Last time I checked, there were 612 thousand pensioners, 830 thousand insured. It is said that 830 thousand people are being transferred or provided funds for the remaining 612 thousand pensioners. It should be said that in 2014, if I go to see 14% of the disabled pensioners, which means that practically every seven in Slovenia is a disabled pensioner, which I find to be of interest to a certain extent, especially because according to the funds they receive only 11%, which means that they receive significantly less money. And now I'm wondering what's been going on for the last 20, 25 years, how this has been shared. If I move on. The budget has been 14 billion in the last ten years for pensions, I am talking about transfers. The remaining money, collected in ten years with contributions, amounts to 32 billion. If we look at the last year, EUR 5 billion has been allocated to pensions, that is to say in addition to a billion-and-a-half transfer. However, it has to be said that this is a very large small minority from which it is taken, but the fact that I mentioned earlier that there are as many as 612 000 pensioners, which is practically 30% of the population, has brought us into one difficult situation, because even if we wanted to, it is extremely difficult to increase pensions in some sustainable way. We're in an unenviable position. Earlier, it had been said that for 40 years of work, everyone certainly deserves a pension. I think that's a fact, but on average, let's say those who have been retired have been working for 37 years, so they're not all at 40. We have many cases, even in the past, when some retired prematurely, even before 50 years ago. I don't even dream of it. I believe that in order to repay these debts and work on it, I will probably retire at the age of 70, if at all. It is true that the first time this pay as you go system was introduced, it is called the opposite coverage of pensions, the average age that someone could have experienced, about three years under the age that was envisaged for obtaining a pension. This system has changed so much with the upgrade of the social system and has improved so much that today we can actually afford someone who retires to survive then, let's say, relatively high-quality, at least as we would like, 20 years of life. In addition to the pensions we have, it is still necessary to say that not all pensions are so low, which in some ways gives me grief, because this means that there are very many under that average who receive extremely low pensions, but there are also many who receive pensions over a thousand euros, in some cases I have seen that over a thousand 700 euros. There is also little to think about in terms of solidarity, it is also said that solidarity is within a particular social structure, or a particular group of people, or maybe there is room for solidarity, I don't know. Furthermore, as regards the solidarity of young people or younger groups of people we talk about so many times. How much money does it give to young people? It's amazing. On the other hand, young people are also paying, including into the health system, and this is also about solidarity, redistribution of resources to those who need it, from those who do not currently need it. And then, if we're going to maybe some awkward things that I've had the chance to experience, what it's like to rent an apartment from a pensioner in these market conditions. Older people have much more wealth than the young population. There's solidarity here, too. I don't want to object or anything like that here, but when you look at it, you have to look at the whole picture, and when you get rid of those who really don't, you really focus on those who do, and you have to help them in every way. But I would like to point out that this does not apply to everything. So we're talking about coordination, a small one that weighs 5 billion euros. If I go to the other side, about this debt and about releasing the investments of the municipalities and so on. At the same time in the same sentence, I think it is very difficult to talk about the fact that on the one hand we have to stop the debt, introduce the Swiss formula after all – the Swiss formula would mean more than a billion less spent money in this year’s budget – and on the other hand, talk about letting go of the investment, let it increase investment, let it increase social transfers, give more education, give more to education, I don’t know where else to go. We have a billion interest and as much as I've said many times, and that's what we're stuck with in this country's flesh. When we are talking about total debt blocking, at the same time in the same sentence, I do not think it is necessary to talk about increasing consumption anywhere or in most cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u281	Mr. Tomaž Gantar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u282	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good evening again, everyone! First of all, I'm going to pretend that I didn't hear this debate because it's been said so much that I don't say what it's better not to comment, but to stay on some appropriate level. People deserved their pensions. They'd been working for years. This is not a social category, it is a work in progress, and I do not think that discussions in this way solve the problem. But I didn't want to replicate that side. Once again, the Secretary of State mentioned that the main objective of this rebalancing and what we are talking about today is to put this deficit below that appropriate level. And once again, we also understand that you can't spend more than you create in the long run. But despite all of this, and despite the fact that I am in favour of reforms, because what has been done so far has been counterproductive and has led to the poverty of all public systems and everything we have already talked about, but the path is simply wrong, the steps are wrong. Just like it's expected that someone would crawl first, I don't know, and then walk, and then run, we started picking everybody up here without creating the conditions for us to do it first. And here I see the essence of the problem. You mentioned earlier, which is the only correct thing to say, if it is dealt with tomorrow, it is taken to the congregations, and thank God they will obviously try to relieve themselves of some legislation tomorrow. I don't know, I probably didn't follow this up enough and we'll see. I don't know if they're happy with that either. Let's just say there's something on it. But in all the other things we've been taking, we haven't given virtually any chance of doing it more rationally and in a way that will be effective and that will somehow drink water. But it didn't, and it just didn't matter. And that is why my point is that such a rush by reaching some target deficit at this point is harmful. And I am not the one who remembered this, but in fact this way of saving, as we are going here, and not least in the European Community, for many recognised economists strongly disputed and compared it today I already mentioned Nobel laureate Stiglitz – he also compared such a way of saving to treatment, with medieval bloodletting to the sick. [[...]] And the fact is, we're close. So it's a mistrial. Now we're probably on it, and the way back is gone. But it seems to me that there is an additional depraved challenge to the legitimacy that we demand. After all, when we went to the coalition — for our partners — this was true, clearly stated what Desus wanted, and this was also clearly signed. That's why it's hard to understand a German colleague who says why Desus is offended, because we've rejected a bunch of amendments and we'll reject yours. It's not the same. We have signed a coalition treaty, a commitment has been made, and it spells out exactly what is expected. And with our left hand, we are in violation of the coalition contract today without anyone sitting down, asking what we can do, how we can solve it, but it is simply self-evident, because Desus has stepped back a step when it comes to regression and automatically reduced by half, and we are not proud of it, believe me. And we are probably also taking reasonable criticisms and we will also accept them if we are able to say tomorrow, because it is probably a big problem for the government if the budget falls, and again we will not be proud of those we represent. Simultaneously pouring oil on fire in a way that you were in so many governments – indeed we were, of course, with a significantly smaller weight, but today we have a slightly larger one. And it's even harder to step back when we're sure we're right. Here we are not fighting for those who have a thousand 500 or a thousand 700 euros in pensions, but we are fighting for those – and once again, mate, believe me, these are in the vast majority – who live below the poverty threshold. This decision is difficult for us, whether you like it or not, or right or wrong. And that's what we were aware of when we went to this government. And why should we be surprised at that today? At the very least, I would expect the Minister of Finance, as well as the President of the Government, to have a respectful attitude when we talk about the important document on which this coalition operates. That makes sense. Why does anyone wonder? And in fact, believe me, what my fellow Vortovec has predicted can happen – that we will press our teeth, listen to legitimate criticism and support the budget's rebalancing, but at this point I don't know, and I find it difficult to say. Because when I listen to certain debates, he really does have me pushing the counter button today. So try to watch a little bit with these eyes when you discuss this issue. We also realize that it is not only the pensioners who are hard to live in this country but who have already done a great deal of work for you and cannot help themselves with anything else today. No, on the contrary, many of them also survive those young ones who do not get jobs today, who do not have jobs, who live with them, who offer them a roof, food, and everything that belongs to them. That's why we fight for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u283	Replica, Mr. German.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u284	Thank you for your word. Mr Gantar, of course I respect you, your words, your colleagues, your client, as well as the coalition and us. You know, all your words are more than in place. I just wanted to expand the perspective that a vulnerable group isn't just one, but there are more. As we advocate for the pensioners, and as I pointed out earlier, we stand together, I may expect that one morning you will help with the breakup of the rights of the younger or the mother single mothers and the family. Everything I've ever troubled is just a way. Because unlike the whole day in this action we started together, I don't think you have an accomplice, as you have found. That's why I brought my speech earlier to have all the bosses agree on it within the coalition. This was my intervention, and that was the purpose of my intervention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u285	Yeah, it was an intervention, not a replica. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u286	Your Honor! First of all, Madam Secretary. That you didn't put anything in the marriage because then you would get a comment from the Legal and Legal Service, but it's really attracted to the hair. Let's take a look at how many comments that the Law-Legal Service makes, and give them a little bump. So don't talk me into it, not even less citizens. There's something else I'd like to point out here. You know, in a way, a person feels really bad because we have to be here to witness some coalition coordination. You've been in sync for five months! Five months, and now you have a coalition summit here! A little more serious at least for the citizens, no. This is a meeting of the National Assembly, and one would expect at least some things to come with some single materials.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-19-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u287	It's two minutes to ten. [[advertising from the hall]] No, it's not like that. But given how things were predicted, we're going to break up at this point and continue tomorrow. I interrupt this agenda item and I also interrupt the 9th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m.
