ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 14th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Tanya Zink, mag. Jana Jenko, Mrs. Maria Antonija Kovacic, Mr. Branko Zorman, Dr. Franc Trček, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, Matjaž Hanžek, Mr. Franz Breznik, Dr. László Göncz, Mr. Franz Jurša, Luka Mesec by 12 noon, Mr. Roberto Battelli, Mr. Jernej Vrtovec and Mr. Jožef Horvat from 2 p.m. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 14th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday 15 May 2015 by reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. I have proposed to the National Assembly that the agenda be extended by a proposal for the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly. You have received an extension proposal on 20 May 2015. Does the representative of the proposer of the proposal for the election of the Vice-President wish to speak? [[No, no, ……]] Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? [[No, no, ……]] Then let's move on. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The Assembly will consider the voting enlargement as A1. the agenda item, as soon as the agenda is set. We move to a vote on the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as received by reference and with a follow-up. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 14th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving to A1. On the agenda, it's an evocative proposal for the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly. The Group of 50 Members and Members with the first signed by Dr Simono Kustec Lipicer is the State Assembly 19. 5. 2015 proposed to elect Mag as Vice-President of the National Assembly. Bojano Mursich. In order to further explain the proposal for election, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Group of Social Democrats, together with the unanimous support of the Group of Members of the Party of the Modern Centre and Desus, is proposing mag as Vice-President of the National Assembly. Bojano Mursich. We are proud to propose to this responsible place a party and a fellow Member who, despite her relatively short parliamentary internship, has proved that she has the experience and personality needed to manage her working bodies. It's a business trip, mag. Bojane Muršič began in the municipality of Ruše, where she initially participated in the department for social activities and later upgraded her knowledge with the contents of the economy and regional development. In her work, she focused, among other things, on the health sector, where one of the major projects is to highlight the renovation of the health station and the Ruše project – a healthy city. The social problems of the congregation were also very close to her during her work, and she coordinated, among other things, the aid project at home for several nearby congregations. Solving the pressures of people and caring for all generations with their specific problems has always been and remains the first leader of its mission. She successfully upgraded her experience through the administration of the municipality, initially in Oplotnica and later in the municipality of Ruše. At the same time, it is worth highlighting the successful implementation of European projects in Oplotnica, when investments were made in the construction of the cultural tourist centre, the renovation of the township and the renovation of the primary school. Her sense of justice and her concern for the people reached beyond the working time of the Magus. With her knowledge and experience she has actively participated in various local societies for a number of years. More and more experience in social policy, health care and all other content needed for the functioning of the local community has been the Member State's encouragement on the path of continuous education. Despite full employment, discipline and desire led to the completion of the postgraduate studies at the Faculty of Administration in 2004, while 2010 also graduated from the Faculty of State and European Studies. Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, fellow Member Muršičeva, values her as an exceptional co-worker. With its qualities, among which tolerance and correctness are valid, it constantly builds up its work in a way that is committed to righteousness and a sense of fellow humans. We are convinced by the Social Democrats that the candidate for Vice-President of the National Assembly is mag. Bojana Muršič is more than a good choice. The delegation will contribute to the good conduct of the National Assembly with its experience, its work and correctness, and will continue the successful work of our former fellow Member, Andreja Katič. In today's vote on the completion of the leadership of the National Assembly, we expect that due to the said vote on the proposal in the first place, it will be accompanied by the correct assessment which our candidate clearly deserves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u3	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Primož Hainz is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u4	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to present the position of the Desus Group on the proposal for the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly of Magi. Bojan Mursich. On the appointment of Mrs Andreja Katič as Minister of Defence, the Vice-President of the National Assembly has become vacant. Let me once again thank Mrs Andreja Katič for her work in the post of Vice-President, which is not always as simple as it seems to me to mention from experience. Not now that the work of the entire leadership of the National Assembly is on the shoulders of only two. We are pleased that the Group of Social Democrats has tabled a proposal for the completion of this city, and at the same time we regret that we still do not have a proposal from the largest opposition party for the post of Vice-President of the National Assembly. In the Desus Group, we believe that it would be good for the opposition to be able to cooperate constructively in these times when we should all step together and work for the welfare of citizens and citizens of Slovenia, including by proposing its candidate as Vice-President of the National Assembly. It has filled all the cities, including the management, which belong to it according to the election results, except for the Vice-President of the National Assembly. In short, the Group of Social Democrats has proposed Mrs Bojano Muršič as Vice-President of the National Assembly. We believe that a parliamentary group of its members has chosen the most suitable candidate for this function. We know her work in the past at the local level and now at the state level. In this mandate, the Parliamentary Committee on Justice is successfully chaired and, in view of its activities so far, we believe that the work which will be entrusted to it by election to the post of Vice-President will be done conscientiously, diligently and with full responsibility. Ambassadors and Members of the Desus Group, Mrs Bojana Muršič, we will unanimously support your candidacy and let me also congratulate you on behalf of the entire parliamentary group. In my own name, let me conclude once again that I am looking forward to working with you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u5	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Germany.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u6	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The Group of Social Democrats is proud to be able to propose mag today as Vice-President. Bojano Mursich. To everything that has been said about the candidate on our part today, let me add that Mrs Muršič, a fellow Member of Parliament, who has proved that we can trust her more than we can a place that is even more demanding and responsible, has proved this, after all, as President of the Justice Committee. Mag. Bojana Muršič with her dedicated work, enthusiasm, and above all with the correctness already mentioned, goes beyond political belonging. It is precisely the latter that is crucial for the leadership of the National Assembly, which should primarily be a forum of views, debates, and not a field of political muscle tension without content. The correctness and consistency shown by the Member in the course of her delegation's work, however, I believe that the good leadership of the National Assembly so far will be further strengthened. Let's wish her well in the future at her work. However, I believe that all of us will also contribute to this together through the realization of our own part of the responsibility to respect the necessary measure of political culture. I wish my colleague the best! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u7	The text is given by the Alliance of Allies of Alenka Bratušek, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u8	We are pleased that the SD has finally decided and has proposed a candidate from this wide selection. In fact, we are glad that he chose to be a woman, to be a woman, for this made it clear or made it clear that he also respected gender equality. As far as our colleague is concerned, I believe that she will carry out her term of office professionally, as has been the case so far, and will also serve as Vice-President of the National Assembly. We're glad you'll be there as soon as possible. Honest congratulations are in advance! At the same time, we expect the third Vice-President to be filled soon, which we are all looking forward to for more than nine, ten months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u9	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, for her by Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u10	We also welcome today's 1st item of the agenda of the extraordinary meeting in the SMC Group, which is the appointment of the third Vice-President of the National Assembly. This is a responsible decision; it is a matter of completing the management and management function and mission of the National Assembly. We are pleased that the SD, as a candidate, has proposed a female candidate, because we also reflect equality in society and our attitude towards the representation of a female representative of the leadership of a parliamentary body central in the country. Through all the work of the candidate mags so far. We have no doubt that Bojane Muršič will carry out this work with responsible, conscientious, professional reference and also with an appropriate human sense, so that we wish her well and provide her with our unanimous support. Thank you and good luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u11	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I was kind of counting on you to respond to the statement in the opinions of the Desus Group. Indeed, it has been clear to us that we have occupied all the relevant positions of office in the working bodies, the Presidential and Vice-President, except for the Vice-President of the National Assembly. This claim is not true. We don't have any vice-presidential positions in any of the working bodies. We only have seats on three supervisory commissions and we have not yet occupied two additional presidential posts in the working bodies. One presidential seat was then assigned to the Alliance Group, the other to Novi Slovenije. I think that the Vice-President of the National Assembly, who has been doing this function for about eight months now, could at least verify this technical information, but he should probably have known it by now. I suggest, Mr President, that you simply state these things because you have not previously corrected them, in some way correct them now and also point out to others who have the views of the members of the groups that these views are credible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u13	I confirm the part that says you haven't occupied all the cities that belong to you after that division that was initially adopted at the College of the National Assembly. At the same time, it is also a fact that, of course, this third Vice-President or Vice-President is not being held and that Parliament in this respect does not have the full cooperation of the opposition. And that's a fact. Now let's move on. This is a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! Of course I won't take advantage [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u15	Can you turn it off again to give you [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u16	Now I think it's gonna run. Once again, welcome on my behalf! Of course, I'm not taking advantage of all the time that's available to me because I don't want to repeat what my predecessors have already said. Personally, I am pleased that the leadership of the National Assembly will be strengthened. I am particularly pleased that it will be strengthened by our colleague and coalition Member Bojano Muršič, whom I have had the opportunity to get to know relatively well over the past few months. Experience is extremely positive. I am sure that so far she has done her work very properly in all the committees and in all the activities she has led. I see no reason not to continue my successful work as Vice-President of the National Assembly. On this occasion, of course, I wish her a successful job. As little effort as possible with perhaps a little tiring debate among Members, of course, I also ask that there be as few yellow boxes or reminders as possible. Once again, I want the successful work and the continuation of our cooperation to the extent that it has so far been. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u17	Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I would also like to say a few words on this point, which is said by the candidate for the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly. I will also say myself that I am pleased that the SD party has proposed to a woman that she has proposed to a colleague, Mrs Bojano Muršič, who is indeed like the one outlined by the leader of the parliamentary group, Mr Han. I must say, I know my colleague Bojano, too. She works in the congregation of Ruše, where we both participated in the leadership, as the director of the municipal administration, me as the councillor of the municipal council, and I must say that it was pleasant to work with Mrs Bojana and that, at the time of the Member of the National Assembly, she also proved that she was a suitable Member, that she was responsible for doing her work honestly and properly. I must also say this about the administration of the Justice Committee, and I can only be happy that she is the candidate that I will be pleased to support today. Dear colleague Bojana, I wish you every success in your new assignment, and I am sure that you will be as responsible as you are of all others. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'd like two more sentences in connection with the leadership of the National Assembly. First of all, I will remind you of this meeting or the ceremony that our president of the National Assembly gave us on 8 March when he invited us to coffee this morning and he also said at the end of his address that he himself wished to have a woman lead the National Assembly in the coming term or later. I think, and I'm really sure it would be time. Of course, I thank the President for this thought he said there, and of course I place my heart on the leaders of political parties, that such proposals will also be in the future, because I think that we have shown and proved in this national assembly and in all other areas where we claim that we are able, that we are fit to be patient, that we know some things maybe more with compassion and that we are therefore sometimes more successful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u19	Mrs Marija Bachič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Social Democrats are one of the smaller parties in Parliament, and we have seen quite a few changes recently, which have brought us closer together and strengthened us. A week ago, we confirmed our fellow Member, Mrs Andrejo Katič, as Minister of Defence, and thus emptied the post of Vice-President of the National Assembly. So today we have before us the proposal of our candidate for Vice-President, and we are proposing our fellow Member of Mags. Bojano Mursich. In a short time, Bojana has developed as a Member into a political and professional personality. It is characterized by its work, diligence, and consistency. Many times we find her at work in her office late at night or early in the morning. Bojana has proved to be an excellent president of one of the very demanding and important committees, namely the Committee on Justice, where they have reached the expression of her organisational capacity and also knowledge of legislation. In other areas too, Bojana is active and professional. Because of its personality qualities such as kindness, communication, openness, honesty, and honesty, Members are well received among us. I therefore believe that Bojana is an excellent candidate, and I hope that she will be confirmed in this National Assembly with a large majority. I am sure that it will do its job well, well done, of course, in accordance with the rules of procedure and legislation which is not foreign to it. I wish her a successful job, and we certainly support her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u21	Mr. Jan Škoberne has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Boyana, sincere congratulations on your candidacy. I am extremely happy myself, dear colleagues, that instead of Andreja Katič comes the Mag. Bojana Muršič, who, in her past work, has shown above all that she has performed professional tasks without a large pump, without a spark and that these tasks have been performed in great satisfaction both for the citizens and for the citizens she has worked for, in particular, for the great satisfaction of her fellow workers and colleagues, and that, through all the activities she carries out both in her home and in the Member State together as our client colleague has shown that she is connected, that she has exceptional tolerance and mediation capacity, which is particularly important for this honourable house. In fact, I am very pleased that with the election – I believe that with a large number – the Slovenian Democratic Party will also have one exceptional opportunity to obtain, by appointing Andreja Katič and Maja Makovec Brenčič, the Government, where gender equality is concerned, by proposing a candidate by the opposition to the Vice-President of this assembly, a balanced leadership structure to show that Slovenia can also be pursued in this area among advanced countries and that cooperation can lead us to the common goals that I believe, including through the reference to this extraordinary meeting today's SDS. Dear Bojan, we count on you and good luck! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u23	This concludes the debate. We're moving to the vote. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 199 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Assembly shall decide by secret ballot on the election of the President. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly on the proposal of the President. I have already received proposals from the parliamentary groups for the members of the committee leading the vote. These are: Dr. Mitja Horvat, Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, Mr. Jan Škoberne, Group of the Social Democrats, Miha Kordiš, Group of the United Left and Mrs. Iva Dimic, Group of the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats. I am also a member of this Commission as Chairman. Ms Jernej Bergoč, Deputy Secretary-General, will also participate in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to the proposal for a commission? If not, we're moving on to a decision. Members and Members of Parliament, please re-check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Chamber shall be solicited to the Members by each Member to the Chair's table and shall state his name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "against". In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid voice from which the Member's will is not clear. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 199 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the candidate for Vice-President shall be elected, if voted for by a majority of all Members, that shall be 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. Members and Members of Parliament will place the completed votes in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. I ask the Member and Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where we will take over the electoral material. The vote will begin at 10.40 p.m. and will last until 10.55 p.m. After the vote, I ask the Member and Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet you in room 217. I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 11.10.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u24	Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. Proceed with interrupt A1. the agenda item, this is the proposal for the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly. I will read the minutes on the outcome of the vote on the candidate for Vice-President of the Magi National Assembly. Bojano Mursich. The vote was held at the Assembly premises on 22 May 2015. 68 ballots were distributed, 68 ballots were delivered, 17 votes were invalid, 51 votes were valid. 50 Members voted in favour and one or one Member voted against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] On the basis of the outcome of the vote, it was mag. Bojana Muršič, with a majority of the votes of all Members, was elected Vice-President of the National Assembly. Newly elected Vice-President of the National Assembly of Mags. I congratulate Bojani Muršič and wish her great success in her duty! / applause/ I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to one. On the basis of the information provided by the Court of Justice of the Republic of Slovenia, the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice and the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Auditors, the Court of Auditors, the Court of Auditors and the Court of Justice of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Auditors, the Court of Auditors, the Court of Auditors, the Court of Auditors and the Court of Auditors, the Court of Auditors, the Court of Auditors, the Court of Auditors, the Court of Auditors, the Court of Auditors, the Court of Auditors, the Court of Auditors, the Court of Auditors and the Court of 03. 2015, which concluded that former Justice Minister Alesh Zalar and the Attorney-General of State Dr. Bell Fisher leveled corruption. The draft decision was tabled by a group of 26 Members and Members with Mr Jozet Tank, the first to be signed. With regard to this motion for a decision, the Group of 21 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. Before proceeding to the consideration of the proposal, I would like to inform you that, on 19 May 2015, as President of the National Assembly for today's meeting, I received a letter from Counsellor Katarina Kresal, Commissioners of Aleš Zalar, informing me that the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia, on a proposal from Mr Zalar, has issued a provisional order that the Commission, in order to prevent corruption within three days of the issuance of the order from its website, should withdraw the final findings in the case number 06210-699/2012-61, in the same case that we are considering today in the framework of the proposal for a decision, namely in the work relating to Mr Zalar, with a view to preventing further damage to Mr Zalar. That provisional order shall apply until the issue of the legal judgment of the Administrative Court in that case. The Anti-Corruption Commission did so on 15 May 2015. In view of the foregoing, I would urge you to refrain from making reference to the Commission's concluding observations on preventing corruption in the work relating to Mr Zalar in order to avoid the possible consequences for both the National Assembly and the individual debater, with particular attention to the fact that Members' immunity in accordance with Article 83 of the Constitution relates only to criminal liability for the opinion or vote at meetings of the National Assembly and its working bodies and does not extend to the Member's liability for compensation. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposers, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The president, what you just said, is absolutely true, because otherwise the National Assembly could be fined. That's why I'm calling on everyone to follow this warning. At the same time, I must inform you, President, that we have also prepared an amendment which, in the preamble, threw Mr Zalar's name out, but the coalition has not accepted it, so you will still pay the penalty. I suggest you file a bill with the coalition. As for the presentation of today's agenda item, let me remind you that today is the 52nd day since the state of Slovenia has a person at the head of the prosecutor's office who acted corruptly. So, 52nd day. On my left, however, I will remind you that on the same occasion in 2013, when the KPK report on the property situation of the party presidents came out, they immediately called all those responsible for the resignations and so on – this report on the property status of the party presidents is no longer available today – today you are silent. You have a little double standards. And the contents are next. When the government was composed of Mr Zoran Jankovic and when it failed in 2012 and it was clear who would be the new mandate holder, what happened? Mr Fisher wanted to take care of Mr Skrlec's office as Secretary of State. They put in a call for three people, but they didn't pick anyone. It happened that one day, I stress, one day before the arrival of the new government, the government of Janez Janša, that is, on 9 February 2012, after a rapid procedure, Mr Fischer's proposal to the Ministry of Justice rumbled, and, look at it, a fraction, in two hours it was all over, we already got past the call, past the law, in a corrupt manner by the Director-General of the State Prosecutor's Office. Even before that, the gentleman had to become a senior state prosecutor. Yesterday we heard that this also happened in a very unusual way. How? Mr Borut Pahor, as then President of the Government, objected to this item on the agenda and was therefore withdrawn, it is the appointment of Mr Škrlec as the Chief Prosecutor of State. However, Mr Pahor's phone rang and he had to leave the government's meeting, which Mr Zalar then took over. The agenda item returned immediately and was immediately accepted, which means that it also became a senior prosecutor. Very interesting. When I took over the affairs of the Minister of the Interior, where the prosecution was at the time, we also immediately found this – that there was a controversial, illegal way of appointing Mr Škrlec. What did we do? I simply proposed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to resolve it, which was its option, and we did. Of course, Mr Škrlec complained to the Administrative Court and the Administrative Court ruled in autumn 2012. Mr Škrlec's complaint was rejected and – look out for the following words – the judge wrote that it was by Mr Fischer – that I should not mention another, as you know – abuse of power. It means that the Attorney General of State has abused his authority. And he also acted corruptly, a little later. Of course, Mr Fisher did not remove him from the post of Director-General, as the court had ordered, and as we expected in the government, but left him there, but he was given the name and the name short v.d. Later the procedure was carried out in a legal manner and they appointed him to the same job. [[..]] So, on the one hand, we have the judgement of the Administrative Court, which speaks of the abuse of power in order for Mr Škrlec to be appointed to such a position of employment at all. In particular, I would like to point out that this happened one day before the start of the new government. One day. Mrs Bratuškova later invited all those for this booth, as she said, who were dishonorably appointed to resign. This was probably the case with Mr Skrlec, but of course nothing happened. What happened next? The same case was followed by the Ministry. First, the Ministry of the Interior, which Mr Fisher, of course, denied him all legitimate right to exercise control at all. That's why the government and the government have ordered us to do the surveillance. But there has been a change of government. The Minister then became someone else, that was Mr Plitschanič, because the prosecution came back to justice and it happened that it took several months for officials from the Ministry to go to the field, that is to say to the prosecution and the case to be examined. Of course, Mr Fisher interpreted it all as pressure on the prosecution, as an influence on the prosecution, and I don't know what it is, of course, that's not at all true. Control was carried out only now, under the current government, under Minister Klemenčič. And this surveillance found out the same thing. He found that Mr Fisher had combined two laws, the Law on the Prosecution and the Law on Public Servants, here he took out some articles, and there he took out some articles, so that Mr Škrlec could be appointed. In short, the Ministry of Justice has found an illegal appointment. The Public Service Inspectorate also reviewed the same case. Mr Fisher first said they had no right to carry out this inspection and refused control. Of course, it was then up to Mr Klemenčič, who decided that the control would be carried out. Surveillance has been completed, inspection has found 16 illegalities, 16 irregularities in the act of organisations, job systemization. Among other things, the Inspectorate found that when Mr Škrlec was appointed Director General of the State Attorney's Office, the person who had previously been in that position was transferred to a job that was not at all. So a job that wasn't even there. Let's go first. The Anti-Corruption Commission, which I reported to it as a minister at the time, was dealing with this case for a little time, I would say. In about six months, Mr Stare, who is sitting here behind me, and Mr Klemenčič, has found that this is corruption. The corrupt behaviour of Mr Fischer in appointing Mr Skrlec. But it didn't come out. However, it has not been made public and has not been published on the Commission's anti-corruption websites because Mr Zalar at the Supreme Court has reached a temporary ban on publication. In the Supreme Court, this case was in the freezer, say, for 15 months. 15 months. Following several calls from the Slovenian Democratic Party, it was only this year that the Supreme Court decided that the KPK report was okay. And this report was also published on 31 March this year. That's why it's been going on for 52 days now since we've had a corrupt person at the head of the DA's office. Day 52. But look at one interesting thing. Let me remind you of the event on 8 January 2013. At that time, it has already come to light by the court that the Commission's report on anti-corruption, written by the same two gentlemen, has been rejected. Mr Stare, who sits behind me as the main investigator of the Commission for the prevention of corruption, and Mr Klemenčič. Of course, they stepped in front of the cameras and said that everyone, especially Jankovic and Janša, must take responsibility and must leave. Of course, the political parties, which you were then either in opposition or in coalition, were attached to this. Especially as far as Mr. Janša is concerned. What happened yesterday and a few days before that? Mr Fisher said that yesterday he also reiterated that this is not at all a commission to prevent corruption, but that it is a commission to discredit individuals. Isn't Mr. Fisher's interesting point of view? On 8 January 2013, it was a credible state institution, which is independent, which we must not spit on, and now it has become an institution for the discreditation of individuals. I asked the Secretary of State, and I said, "Are you going to react or not, because you are the person who was employed at the Institute for Discreditation of Individuals?" Are you going to object to that? That's interesting. The Secretary of State is on the phone. He couldn't talk yesterday. Isn't that interesting? It's a very interesting thing. What's more, we need to go back a little bit. The State Prosecutor's Office Act, adopted by the National Assembly in 2011, is an exception. You can compare it with other similar acts, i.e. laws, in European countries, and you will find it rather unusual, especially because of decentralisation. For he places the Attorney General there at the top of the ornament, not for running the prosecution's organization, but it's not even a topic. The theme is the one we have, and the following must be said within this topic. How did this job come about? They changed the law. The Act, which took place at the time, renamed the Secretary-General of the Attorney-General of the State as Director-General. In the meantime they wrote, Mr Škrlec or Mr Fischer, the conditions for employment and, of course, the conditions for employment were a legal examination which the person who was there did not have. So what did they do to the ad persona? They wanted to get rid of her, and that's why they wrote it. They wanted to create a job for Mr Skrlec and they did. So, he wrote his own law, the National Assembly accepted it, jobs were created for him when he was no longer serving as Secretary of State. Yesterday there was a lot of talk about how Mr. Big Expert, Prosecutor, Barbara Brezigar said she commended him, Mr Sturm praised him, and so on and so forth, and that there is no politics at all. How come there's no politicians? He was Secretary of State at the time. The Secretary of State is a politician, anyway. In short, even yesterday very, very much swindling. Moreover, the Attorney-General of State, Mr Fischer, who appeared before the committee yesterday after a long, long time – he has boycotted this committee – is not prepared to take any responsibility. No responsibilities. He has informed us that Members of the SDS are deliberately calling a meeting on the day of the decision of the State Prosecutor's Council. Of course, Members of the SDS do not convene meetings, convened by the President of the National Assembly, who was in fact obliged under the Rules of Procedure to act as he did. No, Mr. Fisher sees this as pressure on the work of the State Prosecutor's Council. When I asked him who was pressing, whether he was the president of the National Assembly or who, of course, this pressure had become imaginary, there was nothing more to be heard about. In short, he takes no responsibility. Four institutes – the Ministry of Justice, the Administrative Court, inspection services and the Anti-Corruption Commission – found illegality, found abuse of power and found corruption. Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday, in a coalition on the committee, you rejected all the proposals for conclusions. The proposals for conclusions were very innocent. We got acquainted with that, that one, that one. You didn't support it. I will say this: however you delay with this case and however you move around, after the decision of the State Prosecutor’s Council, which is likely to fall today – it is also logical that whatever it is, they will postpone for an indefinite period of time – you will assume responsibility in the coalition for this state of affairs in the country. The backpack that says "Corruptive Prosecutor" goes especially to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u26	The proposal for a decision is 21. 5. 2015 discussed by the Committee on Justice. As the Committee did not adopt the points of the proposal for a decision after the discussion, the Vice-President of the Committee concluded that the consideration of the draft decision at the working body meeting had been completed. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Ms Ksenija Korenjak Kramar, Vice-President.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u27	Mr President, thank you so much for your words. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Justice Committee is at its 9th emergency session. 5. 2015 as a parent working body considered the proposal for a decision concerning the judgment of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia of 11. 12. 2012 relating to the illegal appointment of Boštjan Škrlec as Director-General of the State Attorney's Office and the Commission's finding to prevent corruption on the same case of 31. 3. 2015, which concluded that former Justice Minister Aleš Zalar and Attorney General Zvonko Fischer acted corruptly and was presented to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank and published on the website of the National Assembly in the Rapporteur of 7. 5. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Government, the letter from Katarina Kresal, the Commissioners of Aleš Zalar, the President of the National Assembly and the provisional order of the Administrative Court of 6. 5. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The members of the Committee were invited to refrain from referring to the Commission's conclusions on the prevention of corruption of 31. 3. 2015 in the work relating to Aleš Zalar, to avoid possible consequences for compensation and to avoid that parliamentary immunity in accordance with Article 83 of the Constitution applies only to criminal liability but not to compensation. The applicant submitted a supplementary explanation and presented the content of the proposal, presented the whole procedure for appointing the Director-General of the State Prosecutor's Office and the decisions in the proceedings of the competent authorities dealing with the matter. He stressed that today's debate would not be necessary if the Attorney-General had resigned on the basis of the Commission's conclusions on the prevention of corruption. The applicant proposed additional amendments and submitted documents to which the PSC had pointed out in its opinion. The representative of the ZPS stressed that the content of the proposed decision should be assessed in terms of the constitutional position of the National Assembly as the legislative authority, which also has a supervisory and electoral function, taking into account that the National Assembly is competent to accept phenomena and situations in particular areas in order to take action under its jurisdiction. In accordance with the principle of the division of power, the National Assembly may consider and take decisions only in respect of matters within its jurisdiction, which, by contrast, means that the National Assembly may not consider and take decisions which fall within the exclusive competence of other branches or other State bodies which are not covered by the constitutional, legal and commercial powers of the National Assembly. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Darko Stare, presented the Government's written opinion and stressed that the proposed proposal for a decision was a set of conclusions on the decisions taken by the various national authorities, which had to be respected and no further confirmation was necessary. However, the amendment of the legislation to ad persons would not be appropriate or system-wide and would constitute a dangerous precedent. He proposed a presentation of the debate as it would be more appropriate to continue the discussion after the decisions of the State Prosecutor's Council were taken. The Attorney-General expressed his concerns about the handling of the matter in the National Assembly, since this question does not fall within his competence, since the State Prosecutors are independent and bound by the Constitution and the law in the performance of the State Prosecutor's Office. He further presented and explained the procedures for the appointment of the Director-General of the State Prosecutor's Office and assessed that the State Prosecutor's Council was ahead of an extremely difficult task and expressed the hope that, despite political pressures, it would carry out its work professionally and legally. In the course of the discussion, the representatives of the proposer considered that the National Assembly, in the framework of its supervisory function, was competent to examine the functioning of other branches of government and, more importantly, the Committee on Justice, which was responsible for monitoring the situation in the field of justice and the Attorney General's Office, called for a derogation. In their views, the Coalition Group and the Group of Members of the United Left stressed that any discussion of the decision of the State Prosecutor's Council as a competent authority is premature and inappropriate. The Committee did not adopt the proposed amendments of the SDS Group to paragraphs 3, 5 and 6 and the new preamble and did not vote on the amendment of the SDS Group to the title because the applicant withdrew it. It also did not adopt proposals for amendments to the Committee on points 1, 2 and 4 and to the title given by the SDS Group. In accordance with Articles 126 and 171 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on individual points of the proposal and adopted none. Thus, on the basis of the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second paragraph 61. Article 9.12.2009 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly found that the proposal on the agenda for today's debate was concluded at the home working body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u28	For an introductory explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Dark Staret.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! At its 45th letter meeting, on 21 May 2015, the Government adopted an opinion on a proposal for a decision and a proposal for a proposal for a decision, a group of Members and Members with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. In its opinion, the Government notes that the draft decision proposed by the Group of Members and Members essentially refers to the set of findings of independent and independent state authorities, either legally or definitively adopted, and that any further modification of such decisions and decisions would be unnecessary and, in essence, inappropriate. With regard to the text of point 5 of the proposed decision relating to the decision and the proposal to take a decision within the framework of the State Prosecutor's Council, the Government considers that this is not a proposal or a text which, according to the content, would refer to the competence of the Government. In particular, I would like to point out that the Minister of Justice, under the applicable rules, specifically the State Prosecutor's Office Act and his powers immediately after the publication of the Commission's final decision on the prevention of corruption, has proposed or requested the President of the Council of State to take a position on this violation in the context of Article 127 of the Public Prosecutor's Act, whether such an infringement, which, in the opinion of the Minister, clearly exists, constitutes a sufficient basis or condition for discharge. With regard to the proposal contained in point 6 of the text and proposing to the Government that it consider amending the applicable law and essentially returning to the previous regime when the Government could also propose the discharge of the Attorney General's Office, the Government considers open procedural questions concerning the designations and discharges of the Attorney General's Office, while at the same time finding that the internal case is unconstant and absurd in relation to other authorities. For this reason, the debate is also open in order to change this regime for all so-called builders, the judicial authorities - the state prosecutor's office, the courts and the judiciary - or the government will propose a change to this regime. In particular, I would like to point out that the Government does not favour the solution proposed by the proposers in its decision to return to the previous situation by which they decide to discharge and appoint only political bodies, i.e. the Government and the National Assembly. Such arrangements are currently in force within the European Union and are only known in three countries: Lithuania, Croatia and Russia. In view of the fact that the matter is under review and that, under the law in force, the only competent authority is currently the State Prosecutor's Council, of which we know that the matter is being decided, it seems appropriate for the Government, as it has also expressed in its opinion, that in essence the proposed decisions would not be discussed, since this could unnecessarily create the appearance of political pressure on an authority from another branch of power, which is of course unnecessary and unnecessary. At the same time, it assesses that it is realistic to expect that this decision to be taken within a reasonable time frame, but if not, it would be entirely appropriate for other authorities, either the Government or the National Assembly, to say so. With regard to the comments or assessments made by Mr Vinko Gorenak on yesterday's insolence, and so on, I would just like to stress, to avoid [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u30	Comrade Tank, you can't discuss it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u31	In short, I will then take advantage, Mr President, if I have a word, of commenting on Mr Gorenak's statement that there will be no unnecessary confusion or misunderstanding on the reasons why I did not make a statement on the statement made by the said person. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u32	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u33	Thank you, President for your word. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I would like to thank you for your confidence. You elected me Vice President of the National Assembly. I believe we will work constructively together. I would like to give a brief explanation, however, of the Social Democrats' Group in relation to the said decision that we have today under consideration. Allow me to begin with our quote, quoted at the 4th regular meeting of the National Assembly, when we discussed the same subject in January this year: "Social Democrats are confident that today's extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly will not end the political struggle." Of course we were right. The political struggle of the largest opposition party with the leadership of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office continues, in particular on the Committee on Justice, informally on other committees and commissions and at plenary meetings of the National Assembly, such as today's. In doing so, we must not forget the political accounts with the State Prosecutor's Office through the public media. For the Social Democrats, such political pressure on the judiciary is unacceptable and strongly rejected. This does not mean, in any way, that we must not be critical to the functioning of the prosecution and the courts, but that there is always a question of whether, for the good functioning of the judicial system and the rule of law, the only way and the guarantee that, according to the political criteria, one party should decide on the discharges of the leaders in the prosecution and in the courts. We believe that this is certainly not the way to do it, unless, of course, we want to open the door wide to the political collapse of the justice system and the rule of law. Between what we are doing here today and what we are already doing at some of the previous meetings of the National Assembly, and the role that the National Assembly, as the holder of the legislative authority, is a major breakthrough in relation to the judiciary. That there will be no mistake, even the Social Democrats are not satisfied with the many things that are happening in the prosecution, in the courts, and we do not agree with all the decisions of the courts, and we are equally dissatisfied when many repressive criminal cases fall or do not receive a judicial epilogue. We would also like to see a mechanism of self-monitoring and a higher level of professional culture and the ethics of judicial officials finally established in the judiciary, which will guarantee that possible irregularities do not go unnoticed and without appropriate epilogues. But for this reason we do not convene mass emergency meetings or organize meetings before the courts, because we are convinced that politics must play a limited role in this. As we are again considering the 2012 judgment of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia concerning the illegal appointment of Boštjan Škrlec as Director-General of the Supreme State Prosecutor, and the Commission's finding to prevent corruption as to what the applicant substantiates the necessity of the discharge of the Attorney-General, it should be pointed out that the Council of State and Prosecutors has not yet stated this. Under the current legislation, the State Prosecutor's Council is the one who can only propose the discharge of the Attorney General. Of course, the question will first arise why the State Prosecutor's Council, since before 2011, it was considered that the Attorney General had elected and resolved the National Assembly on a proposal from the Minister of Justice, so the policy decided who would be at the head of the Prosecutor's Office, whose primary task was to prosecute crimes. The legislation changed because it wanted to ensure the independence of prosecutors who were persecuting corruption and other crimes. The independence of the prosecution does not mean its irresponsibility, but it stresses it, which is important for the quality and efficiency of its mission. The amendment of the law clearly created mechanisms that ensure a uniform policy of persecution and preserve and highlight the independence of the prosecution. Your Honor! We believe that today's agenda item is undoubtedly a matter of political pressure on the State Prosecutor's Council, in particular the statements made by media policy. Why do we think that? Among other things, in the 20th edition of the Week of Mladin, we noted an article that reads: "If they propose the discharge of the Attorney General in accordance with policy expectations, everything will be fine. But if they do not listen to the voice of politics, they will lose much of their independence, as the coalition will change the law with the support of the opposition by re-declaring the first prosecutor again and independently. However, the Prosecutors or the State Prosecutor's Council will have only the power to express a non-binding opinion, i.e. no jurisdiction on the most important issue, discharge or non-resolvement of the first prosecutor." That political pressure also shows the behaviour of the proposer of this point, who did not want to wait until the decision of the State Prosecutor's Council regarding Fisher's conduct. The report on alleged violations was also requested by the President of the State Prosecutor's Office. The calls were clear. This matter is not, of course, yet to be completed and it is expected that the applicants will continue with this kind of political prosecution with the prosecution. It should also be borne in mind that, following a provisional order from the Court, the Commission withdrew from the website part of the report on the conduct of the persons responsible for the appointment of Boštjan Škrlec as Director-General of the Supreme Prosecutor’s Office. There is still no final decision by the Administrative Court on the content of the KPK report. And this is certainly a new moment in this matter, which the applicant uses in one way or another in his further efforts to resolve Dr Fischer. The amendment of the legislation to ad persons, as proposed in point 6 of the Decision, is systematically inappropriate and unacceptable from a legal point of view. In our system, it is necessary to ensure that both prosecutors and the judiciary act legally, transparently and appropriately. However, their conduct must be assessed by the competent authorities in a professional, independent and non-political manner. In the 2014 annual report, the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office demonstrated the relatively successful and stable functioning of the prosecution's organization in carrying out its basic task, namely the prosecution of perpetrators of crimes. Stability in the performance of tasks is still an important quality in ensuring legal certainty, as the same cases have to be dealt with objectively in the same way and in different ways. Only in this way and through such conduct will the judiciary and the prosecution gradually restore the necessary public confidence in their functioning and the rule of law. Public prosecutors are improving their work year after year, despite the fact that cases coming to the prosecution do not fall. At the end of last year's calendar year, the staff composition of state prosecutors was also more optimal. However, it follows from the report that prosecutors are legally and effectively carrying out their tasks. Despite this report, we are still concerned about extremely slow procedures to prove crimes, especially in the detection of economic crime, and therefore we believe that we should make every effort to resolve such cases as soon as possible. While the State Prosecutors treat such cases as a matter of priority, the evidentiary proceedings generally prolong the overall resolution of the cases. Work programmes in the modern world are a prerequisite for the proper functioning of the authorities, including the state prosecutors, as it is a pre-definition of a vision of work with clearly defined measurable objectives that will also allow the evaluation of achievements. The programmes will be a means of measuring the effectiveness of the functioning of the Prosecutor's Office, while at the same time a control mechanism and a quality instrument that will help to choose the leaders of the authorities. This will strengthen the responsibility of prosecutors' leaders and the effectiveness of the prosecution, as the strategic work programme will act in a positive manner. This is followed by the reform introduced by the last amendment of the Law on Courts in this area. Your Honor! Many, including some of us here, have made a decision in their career that later proved wrong and may have caused harm to a group, an individual or even a country. Whoever's working is definitely wrong. But it is also right for everyone to take responsibility for his or her actions. On the other hand, it must be possible for everyone to defend himself against the evidence of his work by means of the legal means available to him. The use of remedies also shows that we are a legal country that must have its own field of judgment, independent of political and other forms of pressure. Supervisory authorities are obliged to sanction those who do not act in accordance with the Constitution, laws and ethical criteria. The policy must, however, ensure that the independent branch of power carries out the tasks conferred on them by the Constitution and the legislation impartially and independently. Let me finish. The law enforcement authorities must act independently and in accordance with the law, and the policy must measure its action to the extent that it does not undermine the judicial system and the rule of law based on the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u34	Before I give my word to the next one, I would like to stress the following: the essence of political culture is the non-interference in the word of the one who speaks under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in the National Assembly, and the humane minimum listening capacity. Communication also starts and ends the possibilities of real democracy. Please be aware of this and take this into account in your conduct in the National Assembly. The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u35	Mr President, honourable Members, Members and others in attendance! As provided for in the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, the National Assembly on the discharge of the Attorney-General shall decide on a proposal from the State Prosecutor's Council. Such a proposal has not yet been made by the State Prosecutor's Council, as it has not yet taken a final position on the issue of the appointment of Boštjan Škrlec by the Attorney General and the former Minister of Justice. However, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, the Inspectorate for Public Servants, the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Justice took a position until the appointment. We have also dealt with this case several times in the National Assembly, which is the only one who currently has no decision-making powers. Even if the conclusions proposed by the SDS were adopted yesterday, nothing would change. Dr. Zvonko Fischer would still be the Attorney General of State and Boštjan Škrlec would still be the Chief Prosecutor of State, who performs the duties of Director-General. Not to be mistaken, the case we are dealing with is not the only one. We had the Prime Minister of the Government, who was invited to court hearings and court writings more frequently than invitations to government meetings, and despite the Commission's report to prevent corruption, he did not wish to withdraw. We had or have mayors who have more indictments than successful projects in the municipality they run. We also had ministers who gave up their post only after weeks or even months of public pressure. So there are many such and similar cases, and each of them is unacceptable. Every time he reacts to such an or similar affair, a number of questions arise immediately. Is it necessary for each affair and actor to change the law in a special way? Should the powers for the discharge of the highest representatives of the judiciary also be conferred on the National Assembly? Should we give more power to the Minister of Justice or possibly to the Commission to prevent corruption? The answer to at least one question is clear. As soon as possible, it is necessary to approach amendments to the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. That this is absolutely necessary, Goran Klemenčič also spoke as President of the Commission, and as Minister of Justice, it is argued that this is within the competence of the Ministry of the Interior. However, we hope that both ministries will do their jobs and prepare, as soon as possible, changes that the anti-corruption procedure will provide the Commission with sufficient precision so that we will not again witness similar calvaries. The powers of appointment and discharge of the highest officials of the judiciary have been divided into opinions in this National Assembly. But usually they are not divided on the basis of professional arguments, but on the basis of which option the current functionary belongs or which option it has named, so it is in principle important that it is ours. When Attorney General Barbara Brezigar was a prosecutor-general, this question was raised by one side of the political elite when the Attorney-General Zdenka Cerar and the other side. There has been a lot of talk about what officials should be called within the judicial branch of government. All speakers like to stress, however, that political recruitment to such important positions is unacceptable, except, of course, when they employ themselves politically. SDS member Zvonko Černač, for example, said in the meetings on commercial television that SDS had an excellent candidate for the President of the Supreme Court in 2010. We therefore rightly wonder whether the protesters before the Supreme Court would be so persistent even if Mark Šorli was elected instead of Branka Masleša as President. This type of problem is not only faced with the appointment of the highest officials in the judiciary, but also in all areas. Thus, for example, all the coalitions and governments have claimed that the recruitment is strictly on the basis of a client card and is not being used. If that were the case, we would not have these problems in Slovenia today. The problem that we are talking about today must therefore be addressed not only when it comes to the highest judicial officials but also in full and for all important functions equally. That is why it is imperative to amend the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. Since it is a statutory law under which the Commission issues reports and findings on the corruption of officials in order to prevent corruption, its powers must be clear and the procedure should not call into question its legality. The current situation is virtually unsustainable, since any Commission finding to prevent corruption is the subject of legal proceedings, provisional orders, withdrawals and annulments that take years to go. Given that the government of Dr. Mir Cerar and the coalition have repeatedly stressed that staffing, where the only criterion is ours and the suspicion of corruption in this regard, is, of course, that these changes will be prepared as soon as possible. For example, in view of the fact that the Prime Minister of the Government even spoke of an octopus that controls state-owned enterprises, he used the evidence of political recruitment as a basis and the main argument for the sale of the best Slovenian companies. The amendment of this law is thus the first prerequisite if we are to avoid such a fair as we have today. In the end, the coalition, which was also committed to solving this problem, stated in the Coalition Treaty: "We will reduce the political impact on recruitment and professional work and replace them with promotion mechanisms that will ensure the deployment of capable people to the right places." Of course, the shadow of such a record is doubted by the fact that, for example, the largest coalition party on the websites invites its members to run in the councils of public institutions. It also notes that in the event of an application for an invitation to tender, the management of the party shall be informed. One quickly asks if you still represent the view that staff should be selected on the basis of professional competence and not political affiliation. Although Boštjan Škrlec's point today does not allow incompetence or incompetence to be seen, the appointment process itself was more than clearly controversial. During yesterday's debate between the proposer and the invited ones, we were able to hear that there could be more of these cases on both sides. Nor is it possible to ignore the fact that it was precisely because of the biggest opposition party in 2005 that we received the word "Qadrovski Tsunami" and that the government that led it was still recruiting until the last day of its two mandates. The key problems of appointment and resolution therefore do not stem from legislation. We already have ethical codes legally binding for all organs. For all officials, we also have legal disciplinary procedures. The additional legal changes will thus not solve the problem that we are dealing with today, nor will they solve any similar problem. This would not be resolved by the proposed conclusions, which we will not vote on today anyway. The fact that the official resigns if the competent authorities find that he has acted unlawfully or corruptly should be self-evident. Such an official should have resigned on the first day following his publication, not to round up until he has exhausted all existing legal remedies, whether it be a judicial, legislative or executive branch of power. Although the confidence of citizens and citizens in the rule of law is shattered and extremely low, the situation is not as catastrophic as it is trying to present the SDS. However, the functioning of justice could be and should be better. They should be aware that such conduct is the most harmful to themselves. The State Prosecutor's Council will thus have to assume its responsibility. If I had done this earlier today, there would be no session and no debate at all. The role of the National Assembly is clear. With the necessary legal changes, it can address some of the problems that justice faces and cannot restore its reputation without its cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u37	Mr President, representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! The findings of the three bodies — the Administrative Court, the KPK and the Inspections — regarding the irregularities, illegality and corruption found in the case of Bosniak Škrlec as Director-General of the Supreme Public Prosecutor are, in our firm belief, more than sufficient reason for the resignation of the Attorney-General. In Novi Slovenija we expected such a step from Dr. Fischer. Of course that didn't happen. In countries with advanced democracy, it would follow a withdrawal from office on the same day as any irregularity in the work of an official in the highest judicial office would be detected. What does the Attorney-General say by doing so to his citizens? That officials at state's highest offices are untouchable and are not responsible for absolutely nothing. They are subject to other standards and regulations than ordinary citizens. It is not just about moral standards, nor is the law applicable to them. The corruption which is evident by the PKK to the Attorney General is defined as a criminal offence. Almost no one else believes in the rule of law. And this action by the Attorney General is only an additional confirmation of this general public belief. We expected all the highest professional and political authorities in the country to be publicly identified on the responsibility of the Attorney General. In our view, this should be done. Politics is responsible for the general situation in society. There was no response. So what is the message of policy for citizens? Let this remain a rhetorical question, which policy will certainly have to answer. In Novi Slovenije – Christian Democrats we are concerned about the conduct of the Attorney General and his views on subjective and objective responsibility in the position of the first person of the State Prosecutor's Office. In determining the policy of prosecution, the role of the Attorney General is crucial. Under the Public Prosecutor's Act, it is the Attorney-General who is responsible for determining the policy of prosecution. The role of the Attorney-General is therefore of paramount importance as the person taking over this function must monitor the adverse phenomena in society and, in accordance with the risk of pre-eminent deviant behaviours, establish a law enforcement policy in an up-to-date manner and determine the priority and intensity of the work of the Public Prosecutor in specific areas. My debate will go a little wider. The Attorney-General shall be responsible for the functioning of the entire prosecution organisation objectively and subjectively. We have reviewed the report on the work of the Special Prosecutor's Office and the joint report on the prosecution's work for the past year. I must say that we are very concerned that the Attorney General has not offered to resign at least now that these two reports have been issued. In Novi Slovenije – Christian Democrats, we keep in mind the non-implementation of the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin. And what has moved in this area in the past year? Additional staff have been employed, provided assistance to state defenders in this area and provided additional financial resources. And two new lawsuits have been filed. The Attorney-General, of course, thinks this state of affairs is wicked and cynical. Another area where we need to be critical of the work of the State Prosecutor's Office is the prosecution of banking crime under the jurisdiction of the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office. In this area, nine state prosecutors and all together submitted 8 requests for investigation in 2014 and one indictment. Nine U.S. attorneys. This statistics show the reality of the statements made by the representative of the Special Prosecutor's Office at one of the meetings of the Committee on Justice in the National Assembly, that we will expect the first verdict in banking crime cases after 10 years or more. These can only be conclusions on the suspension of procedures due to the ageing, so that we do not, of course, have any excessive expectations. For such a situation in the area of seizure of assets of illegal origin and prosecution of banking crime, all state prosecutors working, or better said, should work in these areas. However, objective responsibility must be borne by the Attorney-General, as he is responsible for the work and also for the reputation of the entire state prosecutor's organisation.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Alliance of Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u39	First of all, we regret having this session today, because it is actually a major waste of time. You're wasting your time mainly because we're not going to think about anything. We will not conclude, however, because no conclusion was actually reached on the working body yesterday as well. Then why are we even discussing this? We are only discussing because the cameras are on and because some want to exert pressure and continue to repeat what they have been doing for many years. Not only in this mandate, but also in the previous term and they continue to repeat the same mantra. But it's not a problem that someone just repeats the same things, the problem is when they find themselves in their own loop, when they first accuse someone of something, and then within a few years, they expect the exact opposite of the same organ, or they take the tweezers out only those things that they like or like. Therefore, today, the only correct conclusion and also an invitation to all parliamentary groups – those who still have some wisdom, unless they wish to preserve it for their political weapons - would be to change the rules of procedure in that direction so that there simply can be no plenary session if there is no conclusion at the end of the decision. For wasting time in plenary sessions for talking to each other has no effect. I believe you'll find out at home sooner or later when you're talking to your partners, that if you repeat the same thing, then it doesn't make any sense anymore. And we do this in Parliament all the time, but only because of one thing, because of the cameras. Because we think we're going to feed our constituents, those we like, and tell them how we fight for justice. Unfortunately, this right is not available in this case because it has no legal basis. I am pleased that, years ago, the law has been amended to such an extent that, if not otherwise, the communication then, but also in practice, proved that the policy must be moved away from certain institutions, especially when we are talking about it performing tasks from the other branch of the Authority. This is not just the case of the public prosecutor, it's also about the district attorneys. You know, she used to call them Vlad, not anymore today. The State Prosecutor's Council has a role to play, so it also has its tasks and, above all, its hands. I believe that when the applicants applied for an extraordinary meeting, they did not know what the date of the hearing of the State Prosecutor's Council would be. In any case, they knew that despite not knowing the date, they wanted to exert pressure. This is, after all, recognized and repeated by themselves, that this is really their legal right, and in this way they communicate to everyone how others must do it in order to be good. In the history of all government mandates, politics has set up its own people. Always. And the more the mandate expired, the more they put up their own people, the one government and the other government. Janša's government, which in the case of Mr Fischer and in this case continue to repeat, has hired no more candidates just to provide them with services. I said one case yesterday on the board. Of course, Mr Gorenak immediately corrected me and said that it had been proven that things had been resolved because they were illegal. I'm talking about Marolt. But this topic wasn't finished. I didn't finish it yesterday. It is very important that we know that on-call Mr Robert Marolt, who has been constantly regulated by the existence in the authorities of the State and government services or in the funds, after having been further regulated by the Office of the Attorney General and then, of course, appointed as Secretary of State — these are the two cases that I spoke of — later, just before Janš's government finished its work, they appointed the Director of the Public Guarantee, Maintenance and Disability Fund and, of course, saved his existence in this way. Why am I referring to this case? I mention it mainly because of one thing, because there were 12 candidates, but two were additionally suited to the conditions, and one of these candidates we have here today because he is a Member, this is Uroš Prikl, who previously worked at the Ministry of Labour, the family and of course knew much more about this area because he worked precisely in this area. And by this logic, if it were the expertise that we all so much like to talk about, they'd be adhering to it, but it's not because it was a political principle. Yours to a place where we can control our positions. This happened, for example, in one such case, and such cases were enormous. So there won't be a dilemma. I repeat, not just in the government. Not just in Yang's government. It was in all the governments. It is therefore very important to ask ourselves, of course, whether we really want to see a policy involved in the case that the applicant is talking about today. I am sure that it would be at least dignified if, at least, this deadline were to wait for the authorities which have to react by law and report their decisions. But we can't wait for this term either. I understand the political struggle, I understand that in a way they will instrument all the tools, not least they have said that they will use all the resources they have at their disposal to alert them to irregularities, but in particular to the irregularities they like, not to those they do themselves. It would therefore, of course, make sense that in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly we would actually amend that provision, which, of course, allows the debates that are due to debate to be slow in this policy to prevent and give room to debates that also have their epilogue. We're not going to see this epilogue today. For us personally in the Alliance, this is a pressure on politics, but whatever we are talking about, and we want to say it, and of course, it is also a kind of pressure that, finally, the proponents have already announced that they already know what the decision will be. They know everything. I said years ago in this House that it is quite interesting that only in this party do they know everything in advance. We will no longer participate in the next debate, nor will we sit in it, because we will not participate in listening to some nonsense and in this way we will also show that we do not agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Ms Ksenija Korenjak Kramar has the floor to present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u41	Dear Vice President, Government representatives, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today we are discussing proposals for conclusions to inform the National Assembly of the decisions and conclusions of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, the Public Sector Inspectorate, the Ministry of Public Administration and the supervisory groups of the Ministry of Justice and to propose to the Council of State Prosecutors that it should take a position as soon as possible on the conduct of the Attorney General, Dr. Zvonk Fischer, and propose to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to examine the possibility of amending the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office. We believe that the proposed text contains substantive conclusions on the decisions taken by the various national authorities to be respected. Any subsequent reception or confirmations, either in the National Assembly or in the Government, are neither necessary nor inappropriate. There can be no denying that there has been an irregularity in the process of appointing the Director-General of the Supreme Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Slovenia. This has been established by the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia and a similar irregularity of these procedures has been found by the supervisory group of the Ministry of Justice, and due to suspicion of violations of the provisions of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, the KPK has also led the process in the same case. As a result of the provisional order to withdraw those findings, the KPC withdrew those findings from its website. The final decisions by the Administrative Court on the content of the case and the decisions of the Supreme Court on the appeal of the KPK against the provisional order issued at this time are not yet available. In this regard, the Minister of Justice has assessed that the provision of possible liability, the establishment of practice and the protection of integrity is appropriate and necessary for the State Prosecutor's Council to assess whether the conduct of the Attorney General in a particular case constitutes such a breach in the management of the matters of the State Prosecutor's Office referred to in Article 127(1) of the Act, which would prevent and justify the procedure for the discharge of the President. To that end, he also requested the President of the State Prosecutor's Council to prepare a report on the matter. We make it clear that the State Prosecutor's Council is the only body that has exclusive jurisdiction under law to decide whether or not to submit a proposal for the discharge of the Attorney General, which is then decided by the National Assembly. The decisions taken by the various national authorities must be respected as such and additional confirmations, as has been said, are not appropriate and are not admissible. The amendment of the legislation to ad personnel also does not and may constitute a dangerous precedent. However, there is a thorough reflection on the appropriateness, transparency and comparability of solutions to the appointment and supervision of judges, prosecutors and also lawyers. In this regard, we also expect an in-depth substantive discussion of all the building blocks of justice and of other branches of government. The State Prosecutor's Council is an independent, independent and legally competent body which is already dealing with the matter at this stage, so in the SMC Group, it is only acceptable that, in this case, in accordance with the constitutional principle of the division of power and non-interference and political pressure on the independent and independent work of other state authorities, it is acceptable for the State Prosecutor's Council to firstly allow the possibility to submit a report, and only then to conduct a possible procedure as provided for by law. The political debate at this stage of the procedure is thus not appropriate and could have an unacceptable impact on the decision-making of the State Prosecutor's Council as an independent body. Therefore, the debate before the decision forwarded from the SMC Group's point of view is too premature and is also entirely inappropriate today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grims will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u43	Dearly beloved, all of you have a lovely greeting! Today's session could also have this under item 2 of the agenda, which would say the Transition Left puts its image on display, given what we have now heard in the opening words, and also in view of the actions of yesterday when the coalition by its vote made it impossible to take any decision, and today we are always hearing complaints that the session is irrelevant because there is no proposal for conclusions. Great logic, I must say. Then another with a brilliant suggestion appears that if there were no proposals for conclusions, if the coalition had therefore prevented it with its votes, the National Assembly should no longer discuss it. Yeah, that's a very high-end democracy. In short, you shut down the coalition, you shut down the opposition, you shut down everything, just what the government suggests comes on the agenda, the rest never comes back. This practically means that the supervisory role of the opposition, which is a constitutional principle, is simply to be eliminated. This is a very interesting democratic logic that I am listening to here today. Otherwise, if we're talking about the coalition, let's go in a row, because a lot of these interesting flowers were planted in this nursery. Whoever works, even sins, has been told before. Yeah, good morning coalition. Have you not been chosen on the basis of the promise that you will be consistent in the exercise of responsibility? What about responsibility, coalition? Responsibility for any job, in particular where someone with the will – and this is not invented by someone from the opposition – has been written by the Administrative Court in a legal judgment – has given someone some benefit, which the PKK has defined as corruption, you will probably agree that this is precisely the case according to European standards, and then the Administrative Court in another proceeding has said that for one of the individuals involved this should be temporarily withdrawn. And that's your excuse that today's session shouldn't be. But the content of that judgment did not affect anything. It still says there exactly the same thing as before that it was a matter of will in the exercise of power. And there were two of them involved. One of them is the one we can talk about peacefully and unreservedly today, this is Mr Fisher, Attorney General. Thus, when the court stated that it was a "voluntary exercise of power", this refers to one of the holders of public functions. Now it's an awkward thing to do because it's about this public office holder. If we respect at least those international commitments that we make, such as a European Parliament resolution, Resolution 1096 of the European institutions or the Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, adopted by the European Parliament by the votes of all Members and Members of Slovenia, irrespective of the political party, that name, which we are talking about today, could not appear at all in the role it holds because its role from the past period, if I am very diplomatic, is quite unclear. Troubled. Disputes would be said by some in law. And there's the problem. If the state places disputed people at the head of such institutions and knows this and does so knowingly – of course, it is doing precisely that policy option – it is objectively damaging to the State as a whole. It works the judicial system in the broadest sense of the word, which then acts non-Europeanly, by effect and by appearance. And of course, a country that does not inspire confidence when it comes to the justice system is a country from which foreign investors flee. And this is no longer about ideology, but about a very serious developmental problem that the European Union is constantly reminding us of. I'll come back to that later. In addition, it was extremely interesting to listen to the credibility of the current coalition. "It is systemically unacceptable to change the law for one man. It is unacceptable to change the law because of one man, ad personam." This has repeated you quite a bit of a coalition. That is what I would sign, but, dear coalition, you are now proposing amendments to the electoral legislation, which is written exactly ad person and which translation of the whole package – because you have made a package so that it would not be too obvious that it is one person – could be read: Anyone can run for elections unless his name is Janez and Janša is not Janša. For he was the only one who really led the government, not only Slovenia and the European Union, and God forbid ever again to come to power to see what kind of kekks we are in the transition left, because we have made such a collapse of Slovenia that even the West can no longer see it, with 30 billion minus, with the economic decline of the year per year, while our biggest partners, such as Germany, have already had the entire development cycle during this period. That is why, of course, it is necessary to prevent anyone who could do something good in Slovenia to take power by all means, including by abuse of institutions, there is no problem. For the fact is that, following the Constitutional Court's conviction, it is now clear that it was an abuse of institutions. And before you go into such restraints, you have to get rid of that first one. Such restrictions may follow when you have European functioning justice, but not before that, because that means only that you allow unlimited abuse of institutions and nothing else, which is, of course, unacceptable in terms of democracy, from a constitutional point of view where everyone should be equal before the law, and even worse. But what did you say? He who works is also sinning. If we go back a little bit narrower on this story, not only did the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia find that it was a matter of will in the exercise of authority, but "the above-mentioned conduct enabled a third party to benefit in the form of a session of the Director General of the Supreme Prosecutor of the Republic of Slovenia, thereby fulfilling all the signs of corruption as defined by the relevant law." About these names, one of them, the pardons to which this refers should not be discussed, so that I will not proceed, but interestingly, that the ministry has also done control and found the same. It's a pretty awkward thing. Then another institution, of course, you all know very well. Then it was extremely interesting to listen to the reactions to these findings. The Attorney-General said that he did not recognise the Commission's findings on preventing corruption and stated that it was an institution for discrediting an individual. Now, I'm asking, have you noticed that someone is extremely missing in this room today? Apart from, of course, Mr Fischer, for whom I would very much like him to be among us, but this could be somewhat embarrassing in terms of the rules of procedure. But I would personally be willing to give him the word. If I were here, I'd be happy to vote for it. But he's not here. But I didn't have him in mind right now. It would be better if he were there, because it's not nice to talk about someone who isn't there, but it's our rules of procedure, and I can't do anything about it right now, and neither can the SDS. Those of you who have the majority could. But I miss someone so much. And this is Mr. Secretary. Mr. Minister, who once led the KPK. Of course, he's not among us today. You know what a wonderful scene it would be to have a man sitting here, who, if I quote Mr Fischer, the Attorney General, "leading an institution for the discrediting of an individual", would be here today in the role of minister. And that would be exactly what I said before, namely, the coalition puts its image in perspective. Before, some of you wanted to make fun of the coalition at the expense of SDS. We have not changed our views in any way, but you have changed those who once said that there is only a blue sky above the KPK, that it should not even be discussed, let alone doubt. What we listened to when the government of Janez Janša had to be demolished on the basis of the KPK’s position. By the way, Germany's Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, one of the most prominent in the economic field, defined it as an economic miracle for Slovenia and the only possible solution. But that had to be brought down. At that time, the KPK of the world was the one the KPK should not even talk about, you have no complaint against. It is quite an awkward thing to say today that it is an institution for the discrediting of an individual, and that many in the coalition, then it is also fueled by its efforts to limit the debate or the debate itself, which is going in the same direction. That's what I said before, the coalition puts its image in perspective. That is why this debate is necessary. Not only is it welcome, but it is necessary, because it means actually controlling what people see, who is who, because people in democracy and the Constitution have this right. Let's move on. In view of the fact that some in the Government have also said that there is nothing to be decided on in this regard, neither they nor the Government, it is a rather embarrassing matter because it does not. We all know who the proposer is and who finally decides to appoint the Attorney General, and it is clear that this procedure would normally run. However, if ethical standards were in force – this is what this coalition was based on, if I can remember you – and then this problem, once again, I should certainly not have appeared here, because it would have been resolved long ago because Mr Fisher would have been pleased and clearly suggested that he should resign to allow the prosecution to function as it should. Because the fact is, the D.A. doesn't work as it should. There was something amazing at the board meeting yesterday. But there Mr Fisher was there, and it was good, and I regret that he was not there today, because he said that we would be taught a lesson because then the conclusions were not accepted. Apparently, he already knew what was at stake. But who really got the lesson in the last period? Legally, he received an extremely severe lesson from the State Prosecutor's Office, by means of a unanimous judgment of the Constitutional Court, which annulled all judgments in the Patria trial. What, among other things, did the Constitutional Court record? "When the court interprets the law in relation to the case, it must determine which facts of the case are taken into account from the point of view of the individual legal sign. Taking into account the facts of vital importance which it elicits in a specific factual situation for each individual crime sign, it must compare with the legal fact that it is constitutionally exclusing from the text of the legal provision. Taking into account the facts of a particular situation must be clearly and strictly consistent with the legal state of law — each individual character of a crime. Exclusion of the facts of a particular factual situation in relation to the legal sign of a crime means the specificisation of the signs of a crime. The specificisation of each individual crime mark at the level of a particular actual state is the basis for an assessment of the urgency of the legal status. Therefore, the judgment must state the specific conduct of the offender, which the court substantiates under the individual signs of the offence in question. In doing so, the court may not replace the specificisation of a single legal mark with the specificisation of other legal signs, so as to result in their spillage. That would mean the absence of one sign of a crime." If someone does not understand what I am talking about, of course, this is all the more true for the person who is suing us, because the court has often put itself in the role of giving almost already instructions to the prosecution, which, by the way, is constitutionally unacceptable. I don't know where these people learn the real ones. For the Court should be that, every judge individually and all together, who judges in the midst of two, on the one hand accused, and on the other hand the accusers. So whoever's in the middle has to go neutral. Not that he gives instructions to one person about how to squeeze the other or where to complete the charge because it does not even stand. Or, if even then, the prosecutors cannot do so, but they themselves help him a little and combine a few signs of crime into a miniscule, which the Constitutional Court then defined as manifestly unconstitutional, as a violation of human rights and annulled completely. For this is the essence of this story, and here the State’s Attorney has received a terrible earring if anyone does not understand it. Everyone now sees only the courts in the strictest sense of the word, but they forgot that the accuser was the prosecutor, and that this accusation was obviously made extremely flawed or should never have been. The one who filed such a complaint either showed great legal ignorance or knowingly violated human rights. Either way, it's a matter of responsibility. Not only those specific individuals, but also institutions as a whole. We're back to square one. That is why these matters need to be addressed with clarity and determination. Here we are particularly touching that part of the judiciary in the broader sense of the word relating to the prosecution, because of Mr Fischer's involvement in the concrete conduct that the Administrative Court has already stated. And also because of all the other circumstances. The fact is, the prosecution does not act as it should under European standards. On the one hand, he is filing such charges as I have previously stated, which the Constitutional Court, as a violation of human rights, not only completely throws away in the trash, but even worse, and on the other hand he does not recognize, let's say, an enemy speech, even when he is recognized by the so-called Left Association, is the Association of Journalists of Slovenia, when it comes to their former boss, even though he has all the elements of European standards. What are actually elements of hate speech? I was wondering if the D.A. would be able to say that in a moment. According to European standards, it's not an hate speech just to tell someone you don't want to have coffee with him, which used to be the subject of a lot of controversy in the National Assembly. Two elements must be present, ladies and gentlemen, that this is a hate speech according to European standards. One is the desecration of man, the dehumanization of man, the laughter of personality, and so on. This is one element — humanization. The second element, however, is why this was permissible or even strictly necessary as the worst form of such justification. And if you have one case, it happens to be about someone from the SDS, and then the prosecution doesn't see it, but it's an indictment that, nicely said, is written as "what Grandma wanted, it was a dream," which means it's a bias. And then the question of the principle of equality is raised before the law, respect for the principle of legality, respect for Article 2 of the Constitution and, if you wish, respect for the Constitution as a whole. Then it means that some may be condemned in advance for anything, even if they do nothing, and others may be wronged endlessly, never being satisfied because the prosecutor simply does not recognize it. But you should. The hate speech is about everything and everyone, and it can hit anyone at any moment. Therefore, those cases that are obvious, which are clear, which are unequivocal, are so much more likely to be expected by the prosecution to act properly, not to receive any report from the police, to make an airplane and to go. Then let someone fight on their own, spend two cars of money on what lawsuits in court, and then they rotate it from year to year to forget things don't even know what it's all about, because it's definitely a coincidence. If we go back to the very conduct that the Administrative Court has defined as willful. This means that such conduct is illegal, that it was illegal. Each such official must base his or her act on legality. It must have a legal and legal basis. If someone is directly violating this, and if it happens again, forgive me, the Attorney General, it's so much worse. And then we come back to what brought this current coalition to power — the principle of responsibility. Now, where is the responsibility here, I ask you, if you don't even allow conclusions. You have prevented the adoption of the decision that you have at least become aware of the fact that you are proposing to the Government to prepare at least those amendments to the law that would allow the exercise of responsibility in such a case. And you said because it's one person, but it's totally unacceptable. Just a few days ago, you put something into Parliament that specifically relates to one person, which I have already described. So much for credibility. Then we're surprised if any parliament looks away. But we're not all the same. If I finish this slowly. As we say, many times in Parliament we talk about the justice system, in the broadest sense of the word. This is only a judicial branch of government, and the public prosecutor’s office is, of course, a broader one. That things don't work here is not our invention. We have been very clear and unequivocally warned by the European Union several times. Then, while it is nice to add some of those rules of diplomatic Flossules as it is for interstate communication, "because you have proved some progress, but give more," which means, according to your own words or translated into Slovenian, that you have not done anything clever yet, but now do something. And that's not exactly what Europe is saying. It is in Europe's interest that all countries function normally so that all countries develop well, so it reminds us of the situation in Slovenian justice, because this is an important development issue. If an entrepreneur sees a country where its values are not adequately protected; if he sees a country where there is no financial discipline; if he sees a country where the legal proceedings of the year and year are ongoing, so much so that again Slovenia pays compensation at the European Court of Human Rights due to excessive judicial proceedings, then, of course, such a country will avoid going far and going somewhere else where it will not be a red exot, but a country where its values will be respected; it will not be a country where trials are brought to justice where it suits, 5, 10 or more years, but a judicial trial with a legal judgment will be concluded in a year or more than two, that is within a reasonable period of time. This is a problem we should face first in this country. That is why the European Union warns us that this is our fundamental development problem. You said you didn't want to do this. You also showed this by rejecting the conclusions. This is what we hear every time we talk about the issue of justice and even when we have spoken on the basis of a report by the institutions of the European Union. This means that this coalition is an ostrich coalition, that before one serious real developmental problem of the non-European functioning of justice, it acts as a herd of ostracists who put their heads in the sand, but if you imagine those who put their heads in the sand, then you imagine what it puts into the air and what it looks like in the eyes of the average citizen who pays for it all. Definitely inappropriate for children. Today we will not decide anything, but let us ask ourselves what is the signal we are sending from here, because it is also important in politics. It would be appropriate to send a signal from here that work is required to be lawful and that, when a conscious violation of positive legislation is committed, it also assumes responsibility to enable and facilitate the development of the country as well. People have the right to that signal, and it is our duty to give them that signal. The signal given by the coalition at the moment, along with anyone else from the opposition, that they do not even want to discuss it and even less decide, is bad. But this signal is talking about you. I'm sorry it's like that.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u45	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Honourable Secretary of State with fellow Members and Members of Parliament! I'll be brief today. It saddens me that we are dealing again with this topic, which, according to the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we have brought it far too far, politicised it and today serves only to discredit the Slovenian judicial system. I really don't know what citizens think when they're monitoring our fruitless debate, but it's quite clear that the State Prosecutor's Council under the State Prosecutor's Act is the only body that can propose the discharge of the Attorney General's Office. And the Attorney General's Council is still in session. Their decisions are not yet in place, so today we are primarily stealing time from God and wasting the money of citizens and citizens, rather than dealing with what we are actually elected to the National Assembly. The decision of the Administrative Court three years ago is indisputable. Its consequences have already been remedied, but the fact is that irregularities have occurred in the appointment and this casts a great shadow on the Attorney General. But we're not called to judge. The various authorities have already said so. We also have a finding on the inspection procedure and on the Commission to prevent corruption. Each one could have his own opinion on whether Mr Fisher was still fit to carry out his position, but, as has already been said, the law is clear. Without the decision of the State Prosecutor's Council, we have nothing to talk about here. We cannot also ask Mr Fischer to resign from the National Assembly, as this would mean pressure from one branch of power on another branch of power. Such a decision may only be taken by the Attorney General himself. The Minister of Justice did the right thing when the State Prosecutor's Council called on the State Prosecutor to assess whether the actions of the Attorney General in a particular case constituted such an infringement in the administration of the State Prosecutor's Office which would justify the procedure for the discharge of Mr Fischer. The State Prosecutor's Office Act was amended in 2011 and then the State Prosecutor's Council was given exclusive jurisdiction to decide on the possible application for the discharge of the Attorney General, which was then decided by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. And why have we already amended the law in 2011? It is because of the principle of the division of power that politics cannot be interfered with by the State Prosecutor's Office and that prosecutors are not subject to the will of every political authority. At the time, the SDS was in favor of such an arrangement, and today you have turned the board. Certain legislative changes may be necessary, but because of one person, laws do not change. This is not serious and harmful if you do so. Let me get this straight. The matter is dealt with by the Council of State and since it is a matter of independence, independence and by law of the only competent authority, in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia we believe that, due to respect for the constitutional principle of the division of power and to the avoidance of political pressures, it would be irresponsible to support the call of applicants. Therefore, we did not support the proposed decision in the Desus Group at the meeting of the Committee on Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u46	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are going to have a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a decision. He was the first to speak on behalf of the Government of Darko Stara. All right, Dr. Gorenak, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u47	Thank you very much. I wouldn't bother, I don't have a problem if Mr Stara was in front of me, but I'm afraid Mrs Popot is getting away from me. It's just that, but that's really why I wanted to have a word earlier. Because she has a habit of singing some nonsense and then running away from the hall. I can see it's coming again.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u48	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u49	Mrs Popot, look, you're talking about discrediting the judiciary. The first is that, as a lawyer with a legal state exam, we should at least know that there is a Constitutional Court decision that does not make the prosecution a party to the justice system. This Constitutional Decision has been incorporated by the Prosecutor's Office to a greater extent into the executive branch than the judiciary. Inside the executive branch of the government gave that specialty. For example, some lawyer, or lawyer, who Mrs Porotat was, could have known that. In short, it's not about discrediting the judiciary because we're talking about the prosecution's organization. The lady continued to say the following. In 2011, we amended the Prosecutor's Law, said we had adopted a novel, she said, to secure the division of power. Total inaccuracies. In 2011, we adopted a new Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, written by Mr Zalar and Mr Škrlec, and we opposed this law. We have opposed him for several reasons, particularly because he has decentralised the State Prosecutor's Office and there is virtually no longer any responsibility within the prosecution's organisation. You don't have anyone to blame today. If the D.A. gets on the table a file on which someone is suspected of murder, and this D.A. says, "No, it's not murder, so I'm not going to prosecute him," no one in this country, not even the Attorney General, can do anything, absolutely nothing. Until then, the arrangements were completely different, the signatures and so on, so I do not explain. Mrs Porotat, who escaped, said that we were defending this at the time. No, we didn't defend it. We were against it at the time. The entire parliamentary group, as I recall, also Nova Slovenija, I think that SLS as well. Why did we reject this marriage? Also because this marriage has done absolutely stupid things. We have such an arrangement today, and the Secretary of State has already spoken about it in part, under which the situation is such that the Minister may propose the discharge of the President of the Supreme Court, which is an autonomous branch of government, even the top of this branch of government, but cannot propose the discharge of the Prosecutor. That is why we opposed this law at the time, which is clearly evident from the magnetograms. Of course, today some people turn it around and say, "They wanted to protect Brezigari." No, I don't think she was back then. Of course not, because she was replaced, I think her term expired in May 2011, when Mr Fisher arrived. Now, says Mrs Porotat, it would be irresponsible to accept the conclusions that we proposed yesterday, for the sake of the public, not because of her, because she is what we want, God help me, ma'am. [[…]] What did we suggest? That the National Assembly was familiar with the judgment of the court. It would therefore be irresponsible to accept that. Next. That the National Assembly took note of the decision of the KPK, i.e. the report of the KPK. She thinks it's irresponsible to accept it. I suggest he pays back for today. Next. We proposed that we take note of the conclusions of the Ministry of Justice. She's against it. Next. We suggested that we familiarize ourselves with the inspection report. She's not, she's against it. So that would be irresponsible. And so on and so forth. But when the arguments run out, the lady escapes, this is the third time in this term. Good afternoon, Mrs. Mursich. You also had an opening act, and I must say that I am proud of my vote, that I did not support you. You're talking about the political battle of SDS with the prosecutor. Mrs Muršič, look, there is no political struggle between us and the prosecutor. There's a corrupt Attorney General in this country who you and your co-conspirators are defending. That's all. The fact that someone who acted corruptly at the head of the prosecution's organization is supposed to be persecuting corruption is the country's first-class problem and the first-class problem of the government and the government coalition, not the SDS. The SDS is the only one who warns of this. That's right. That's right. And we will continue to insist on the departure of Mr Fischer's corrupter. Either you like it or you don't like it. In short, I repeat, it's not our fight with the prosecutor, as you said, but it's that you don't want to solve any problems. You, the government coalition. Political pressure on the judiciary. I can answer you exactly the same as Mrs Porotat. What kind of pressure is that? What's that? For a very long time, I think for a few years, it is clear to everyone what all constitutional lawyers say, except, of course, what a stale constitutional lawyer who, let's say, writes an opinion that a person may lose his mandate. All others, who mean something in the legal profession or in constitutional law in Slovenia, have already been told. Long ago, they said that criticism of justice, including the prosecutions, was entirely on the spot and allowed. And if we criticize justice, we usually have reasons for it. You will remember well that tablet that was there — a political prisoner. You'll remember well last year's National Assembly festivities session when we stood here with that sign of Liberty Janša. We were right. The Constitutional Court said he was illegally imprisoned. The Constitutional Court said that. So we were right. And you say it's pressure on justice. Or that we're in court. I've talked there a lot. That's pressure on justice for you. No, it's a call after the illegality. This is a call after the illegality has been lifted. I expect you to separate this and not just read what you read yourself or someone else wrote to you, I apologize. I don't usually read because you've seen me go up today without every leaf. You also said that the independence of the prosecution must be ensured, the balance of power and so on. It is! Who's got a problem with that? The problem we have is that the D.A. is writing down a political structure. That's the problem. He's being brought to trial, and that's where the political structure has been rolling for three years. In the meantime, the head of the KPK writes, no, Mr Stare and Mr Klemenčič write an illegal, unconstitutional report on the property situation and you will come to power. Not you personally, but your brothers and sisters on the client line. We have to take responsibility for decisions, you said. Congratulations on your statement. Please also accept the responsibility of you and everyone else for two votes in this term. First, for the departure of Janez Janša from this House. Take responsibility. Are you capable of all those who voted then to break the mandate, to stand up and look into his eyes and say, "I'm sorry." I'm sorry about the word. Is it possible for the President of the National Assembly to do so on your behalf? Let's just say I'm sorry. I'm sharp about these things because I know what I'm saying, and because I know I'm right. A few days ago we had an argument with Mrs Violeto Tomić, now I am moving on to her, who has also escaped from the truth. Controversy about partisans, post-war killings, murders and so on. That's why I invited the missus to go to Barbara's trench together and to Frankol's. I invited her in writing, and she told me in writing that she would not go there because she knew the horrors of war. Doesn't even separate that someone was illegally killed after the war. Otherwise, Mrs Tomić spoke today about the invitations. But that is the depravity and rudeness of the highest variety, which this lady afforded, I also said on the committee yesterday. She said we had a government president who got more invitations to court than at a government meeting. It's a very interesting thing. This lady today, instead of saying to him, "I'm sorry, for voting like that, I'm sorry, she's still selling stupidity today." And instead of saying that the President of the Government, Janez Janša, received so many of these invitations to a court where he was invited to a structured political process, an illegal and unconstitutional process, she was still selling nonsense. But as long as voters are buying, let them sell. Mr Möderndorfer was talking about wasting time because we are here, and that we should change the rules of procedure, so that if there were no conclusions, there would be no meeting. Well, then let's change the rules of procedure and say it's 90 Members, but talking in the National Assembly and sitting in these chairs is only a coalition. You can accept that, too. With the majority that you have now, and with the reserves that you have with both the United Left and the ZaAB, the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek, you can also change the rules of procedure. You can change the constitution and say there are no more elections. Someone will tell you something about this in Brussels. Thus, he would have eliminated the possibility of discussion in the National Assembly in such a way. Then we won't have any agenda. Then let's put our wages in half, because the government doesn't do anything out of the law, let's say we have them in two days, and the rest is ours from someone else. But there's something interesting. He also talked about our relationship, from the SDS, to the KPK, to suit us once, and once doesn't suit us. I will continue to substantiate how our relationship with the Commission to prevent corruption has always been exactly the same since it came into existence. We didn't change that relationship. The Anti-Corruption Commission, which has been created by the police in one way or another, has been unique in Europe from the very beginning to the present. This is the commission Croatia has, and down to Moldova and Albania, and then we are done. No Romanians, no Bulgarians and no one in Europe has such a commission. We've criticized the commission a long time ago. We came in 2007 with a law in which we said that this is an institution that has preventive tools such as Supervisor, which is excellent, and something else, but not all other cases, such as writing some discriminatory opinions and so on — we said at that time — that control of the property status of the officials goes to the Court of Auditors. That's what we wanted to do in 2007. In 2013, we made it very clear that this report is only a report on the discreditation of Janez Janša. And what are we supposed to be? The result, of course, was the collapse of the government. At that time, all of you, or your predecessors, shouted out how to respect the commission. She had to be respected for God's sake at the time, and we criticized her. But we were right. We were right. The Supreme Court has annulled this report. Today, when Mr Fisher is talking about the fact that this is a commission for discreditation, which the Secretary of State is still going to talk about, it was all quiet. Why can he say that and we shouldn't say that? But we were right because the court overturned it. It will also be interesting to hear from the Secretary of State why he did not reply to Mr Fischer yesterday when Mr Fisher said it was a commission for discreditation. It's a very interesting thing, isn't it? If I were to work on this committee, or even if I were to lead it, and someone told me that, I would probably respond to it right away, very harshly. But you two gave each other your hands and your smile, and there was nothing to say. Okay, I'll see what the answer is. Mr Möderndorfer does not know that the Government still appoints prosecutors, says that this has been abolished. Who's calling them? Of course, they're named and sworn in before the minister. Pure, pure ignorance of the matter. He's talking about pressure on the prosecution, too. Did we call a meeting for today? No, that's not true. We made a request on 7 May when we did not know when the President of the National Assembly would convene the meeting and we did not know by any means that the State Prosecutor's Council would be sitting today. They called the meeting later, as the President of the National Assembly had set a date. Well, it hangs us up and tells us that there's pressure on the prosecutors, and it's purely scheming, and there's some rudeness in it. Of course, Mr. Möderndorfer is affected – what? — Mr Kučan’s worshippers spoke of Robert Marolt’s getting a job. Robert Marolt was appointed notary in 2008 and named by Dr. Sturm. The Ministry of Justice was visited by the best Minister for the Slovenian Political Left, Mr Zalar, who, of course, immediately cancelled that appointment, abolished the town of Notary and Dr Šturma's informer. You see, it's the Minister's harsh reaction. But what happened? The complaint went to the trash can. Why? Because it wasn't a crime, but it was an epic performance by Mr. Zalar. Then Mr Jani Möderndorfer also spoke of Robert Marolt being given a job in some way in 2011 at the Ministry of Labour and that Mr Pikel was apparently a better candidate. There are institutions in this country to check on the KPK if anything was wrong. Let the inspectors check if anything was wrong. He can press charges if something's wrong. But not him, not Mr. Pickel, obviously don't have these arguments, because if I did, I would press charges. By the way, as Minister, I had an argument for the resolution of Mr. Shkrlec. The fact that we have a report by the KPK that we have a judgment that we have a response from inspection services as well as from the Ministry is, in fact, the result of my work or the internal ministry at that time and, of course, the work of Mrs Barbara Brezigar, who was then the Secretary of State and who pointed out these irregularities. So if there's something like that, then I could have done it, but it's not, of course not. But it's nice knitting, talking and painting people. Then says Mr Möderndorfer that a meeting should be held. Yeah, wait. That's what the press asked me out there earlier. Would we wait for perhaps so long that the State Prosecutor's Council says this afternoon: We will not decide, we will wait for the court's decision, it will also be an official decision this afternoon. Or, "We'll reschedule to one of the following meetings. This is a conclusion this afternoon. But if the decision is different, if the decision is as I expect it to be, I will apologize to Mrs Meznar. I know myself, but Mrs. Tomić doesn't know each other, and the rest of you don't know each other. So, when would you like to wait? So the media can forget and we can shut up. But I'll give you a gift in front of there today, a coalition, one present. We had here the inscription John Janša political prisoner, but you'll have this in the front, I'll put it in the box. This is where the U.S. Attorney says he's our prosecutor. Then have it. I'll just make you a box and you'll get it. Let's move on. Well, we'd wait. How long would you like to wait? Until when? To forget, right? Mrs. Kramar, who also escaped, I'm sorry, she's not here. If there's no argument, they leave the hall. Although she said some basic things, she was wrong about the fact that we want to confirm the decisions of other authorities by means of today’s meeting and conclusions. That's not true. The findings say that we've come to know, so they don't confirm anything. You've got to read it right. Either understand or say what you want to say. So he doesn't keep information that we want to confirm. The National Assembly cannot confirm, nor can it confirm, the KPK reports and cannot confirm anything. But you can get to know each other, but I have a feeling you don't want to get to know each other, which is why you voted against it yesterday. The public needs to know something else that I said earlier in the introduction, and I couldn't finish it then because I was running out of time. You know that we are obliged to respect the order of the court by which the person AZ – now we will say AZ – because we cannot say Aleš Zalar – must no longer be written here in these materials. It can't be. That is why we have proposed a preamble, an amendment to this opening statement of this material, by which we have removed the gentleman from the premises because the court has imposed it. But you know what's interesting? The public needs to know that. The coalition has a provision in the chip that, if the applicant is SDS, they are against. And that's what happened yesterday. They were against Mr. AZ being deleted. Now Aleš Zalar is inside, now we have nothing to hide. This is your decision, not ours, I have proposed the amendment, we have proposed it, and you have rejected it, so I propose to the President of the National Assembly that the punishment he will sue be reimbursed by the Members who so voted. Absolutely. Absolutely. Just for the end of this part of my show. Mrs Kramareva is talking about the fact that there will be no ad persona laws. You're the one who put five of them in. You've filed five laws. Something alliance, something you, I don't know who else, five laws. Give one law to adopt and say, as formerly Comrade Grimes said, that the election is a free run, unless you're called Janez Janša. You can put your birth records in there, we'll finish it first. It's not like you're writing five ad persona laws. But you're selling nonsense so there won't be any ad people here. How's that? DTS – The Commonwealth Council is an independent branch, part of an independent branch of government. That's not true, Mrs. Kramar. I believe that even you will be the president of the Justice Committee, quick literature in hand, so that there will be no shame. Thank you very much so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, with all due respect, the representative of Desus went out for a simple reason because you insulted her when you started the discussion and that's why she left. She didn't write out her discussion, but she was really ready for the debate and, of course, you hurt her, she goes out and then you say, "Look, she's gone out." Just by the way. [[advertising from the hall]] Because you usually start with some kind of peyorative label that the older person is a little bit more difficult to bear than any younger one can possibly be. Thank you very much. I give my word to the government's representative. Mr. Darko Stara, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With regard to the claim that I blacked out yesterday on Mr Fischer's statements or markings on the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, and before that on your equal or even more inappropriate terms. It is not a reason for me to ignore it, but it is a simple reason not to comment and not respond to the unworthy, unworthy qualifications of the State authorities of our common country, especially if they are unfounded and unjustifiable. Last but not least, I think that the expression used by an individual on the national authorities of his own country is the one that tells the individual the most about it, and in fact nothing has to be added to it. So the reason why I didn't comment on this and not respond was not that I would faint, but because I didn't think it was necessary and completely inappropriate. With regard to information or claims that Minister Klemenčič is avoiding amendments or proposing amendments to the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, which he proposed at the time he led this committee, because he is supposed to be the reason that he is not competent as Minister of Justice, but that this is within the competence of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, to say that it is not the same. That's not real information. Firstly, the Ministry of Public Administration, which is irrelevant, is the responsibility of the authorities or the Ministry of Public Administration. The fact is that the Minister of Justice, Mr Klemenčič, has already given the Ministry of Public Administration, at the end of last year and at the beginning of this year, the initiative of the Ministry of Public Administration to join the drafting of amendments to this law. A working group has already held several meetings and the text of the proposal for amendments and additions to this law is therefore being prepared. That's a fact. And not what was said to be avoided by the Minister. In addition, due to the correct information or information provided by our voters, viewers and listeners, as well as Members and Members of Parliament, I would also like to correct you somewhere else in this assembly. Yesterday, when I listened to you, I realized that you were always saying that it was in the control ordered by Minister Klemenčič, that he was wrong because of the combination of two different laws. That's not exactly the point. It is correct to find that there has been an incorrect application or combination of two types of procedures in the same law. This is from the point of view of the Minister and the Commission's finding that the procedure was irregular and less important, but it is important in this context to emphasise that certain things which may be important for proper understanding also involve credible and accurate data or information. For this reason, I also wanted to add to this if you will use this further to apply the proper conclusion of the Ministry of Justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u52	The motioner, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u53	Thank you. You said the same thing. I just say it in other words. It's basically what we both know, the state prosecutor's law and it's a combination of two different procedures, so that's it. Otherwise, I would have expected from you yesterday at least to say that you would not comment on Mr Fisher's hurtful or inappropriate words. He was insulting to you last night. He insulted you. He said you worked at a job to discredit some people, that is to say him. If you're willing to accept and obviously accept a slap on his side yesterday on behalf of some coalition discipline or whatever you have, I don't know – and I couldn't stand it, and anyone could have said something like that to me – then at least you have to say it because nothing else is going on. Tell me you won't comment and that this is inappropriate what he said. But yesterday looked fantastic, I mean, I liked it, but it's funny that someone insults you and you don't react. But this is a personal matter. Vice-President, with regard to what you said earlier about Mrs Report, this was five times already, three times in this mandate. Because she always says her thing and then she leaves. It wasn't just today. She's not the only one, because you can see that they were all like this, except for Mrs. Mursich, who came back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Mr. Andrey Chus has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u55	Thank you for your word. That's very fast. Let me say that I am in favour of such discussions, even though some say that we are wasting time, but I am the only one who thinks that mistakes should be addressed in the National Assembly and that these mistakes should also be corrected and resolved. That way, I somehow take my role or the legislator's job to improve legislation so that mistakes and excesses and abuses of power or state functions do not take place. So I cannot understand or accept the concerns of some Members and Members who say that we are dealing with ourselves again and that we are wasting money. You will receive a salary if it is a meeting of the National Assembly or not, but if someone finds it difficult to listen or attend, it is not compulsory to be present. But if it is really difficult or bad, it can also give way, for it is likely that someone else will come and listen. What is happening in the field of Slovenian justice has long exceeded all the limits of good taste, not only good taste, but something that represents normal. In view of the developments on yesterday's Justice Committee, which I have been monitoring, but I have not been present, I must find out and at the same time call on the ruling modern party, or rather, the moral centre, to start doing what it says, because now I find that you are saying something and you are doing something completely different. I conclude that pressing your head into the sand and making some important decisions are not new moral and ethical standards. On the Internet, I have also read quite a few statements by Minister Klemenčič saying that these things have exceeded all limits and are no longer under control. And here I also have to ask myself whether Minister Klemenčič ever had these things under control, because in the most important functions of the Slovenian judiciary, his mentors, who have been taught in the past also violations of the Constitution and human rights, have taught him. This is not what Ambassador Andrej Chuš or the citizen Andrej Chuš says, but is what the Constitutional Court says as some supreme instance. The fact that Slovenian justice is below average or ineffective, also does not speak Andrej Chus, he only reads it, but says the European Commission. What did the European Commission say this March about Slovenian justice? "The independence of Slovenian justice is even worse than it was before, and nothing seems to see this situation improving in the future." Then we can go to some statistics on how many people are employed in justice, but I'm not going to do that today. I believe that personal responsibility is one of the most important things missing from Slovenian justice. In Italy, too, they adopt judicial reform or are already in the legislative process and it also includes the principle of the personal responsibility of prosecutors. What is the personal responsibility of the Prosecutor and the judges in the Republic of Slovenia? Many times we can read that the prosecutor writes or judges decide that someone is guilty, based on the undetermined time, the place, the manner and could still speak. These practices do not appear in just one case, as I also understood Stajerec in the case of the trial against the former mayor of Maribor. I want to know who will judge those who abuse their jobs and their functions in the judiciary for political purposes. Who's gonna go after them? No one, because they are, I apologize for the expression, the holy cow. Many of them today have also created this moral government, and somehow I understand that you have a moral debt to them. I would also like to say here, as a legislator, that nothing will help us if we have the best laws in the world, if we don't stick to them. We have a judgment that someone acts corruptly, but we put our heads in the sand, it's gonna be a while, and we're not gonna talk about it anymore. Then they say what kind of example we set for politics. It is not just politicians, although there is political responsibility here too, so I welcome what Comrade Gorenak has said if you need any donations, I will give something for the framework. The European Commission also says that an effective judiciary or the functioning of a judicial branch is one of the main weapons against the economic crisis. Given that our economic growth or recovery is mainly based on exports, that is, for reasons of foreign origin, we have done nothing in this area, we can find that so in the field of economy and justice there is much work to be done, but we will not do it by putting our heads in the sand for three years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u56	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u57	Thank you very much, Chairman. I have listened attentively to the presentations of the views of the groups on today's topic and have unfortunately found that two-thirds of the National Assembly, if they do not already support it, see nothing disputed in the fact that there is a corrupt person at the head of the body in the country which is primarily involved in the prosecution of corruption and organised crime, according to the PKK. Even though a person still somehow accepts that this is the position of a radical party or a party of one person, this in a modern European democratic country cannot be the position of a ruling coalition that has scissors and canvasses in this country. Not particularly if, as you say, the 7-page coalition writes: zero tolerance for corruption. The reasons for today's meeting are clear. The decision of the Administrative Court, which states that the appointment of Skrlec for the exercise of authority was made; the decision of the KPK, which has detected all the signs of corruption as defined in Article 4(1); and the inspection of the public administration which has detected, I think, 16 infringements in this appointment. In a normal country, we would not discuss that it is pointless to have this debate because it would be really pointless to have this debate because Mr Fisher would no longer be the head of the Attorney General's Office. In a normal country, if Mr Fisher did not see this task or his path, which should follow him on such a finding, the Minister of Justice and the President of the Government would have asked the Attorney-General to resign without delay, whether or not the legislation gives them that authority. It is, therefore, unfortunate to return to Slovenia and find that we are still quite far away from these European democratic standards. So we have a general prosecutor, for whom the official authorities have found violations, we have a debate in the National Assembly, and let's say a party that has 40% of the National Assembly, which dictated the writing of the coalition treaty, does not discuss the subject matter of the corrupt state prosecutor at all and gives 30 minutes for the debate. However, the coalition treaty states: zero tolerance for corruption. Moreover, members of the government defend Fischer and point to a client who merely warned of the decisions of the three official bodies. The KPK report was issued at the end of March, 31. 3. If I am not mistaken, and the ethical government, which sets up or says that it advocates zero tolerance in the field of corruption in justice, has only responded 21. 5. This is because the two opposition parties requested a debate in the National Assembly on this subject. Otherwise, I bet we wouldn't have a position on this government today. In this position, it has been stated that it cannot be denied that there has been an irregularity in the appointment of Boštjan Škrlec as Director-General of the Supreme State Prosecutor. That's bold. That's bold. When a person monitors the situation in Slovenia, when we have a question of different standards, there is no way to think about whether double criteria apply in Slovenia. I hope to say that the government of Mira Cerar is a special double criterion. If you search the web a little bit, you will find the definition of double morals or double criteria. They say that this is the application of different principles for a similar situation or for different people in the same situation and that such double criteria are unjustifiable because they violate the basic legal maxim of modern law that all are equal before the law. Now let's take a look at some of these historical events. I'll count the four affairs. Affaira Thaler, we all remember her, colleagues SD in particular. When this affair broke out, Mr Cerar responded in a few days and said, "I miss a clear response from Slovenian politics to say that we will not agree to it, and that in such cases everything is left to individuals too much." He also said it was obvious that it was corruption. Before any official procedure was initiated. It was obvious that it was corruption. Then we're having an affair about property. The next day Mr Cerar feels this duty, responds and says, "The matter is very serious. The report was adopted by a competent national authority, which is very competent and its findings have considerable weight. The flat-rate answers will not be enough this time." Back then. Then we're having an affair with Klemenčič. Unbelievable. Look at the official SMC response: "The decision is multi-layered". Next: "Minister of Justice Goran Klemenčič has all the necessary integrity to serve as Minister", "it is absolutely not such a found violation that would cast any shadow of doubt on Klemenčič as former President of the KPK", because this decision was "made with all possible care, after months of examination and use of all possible methods." And the essence of why this happened again in this statement: "because the KPK acted in a overly loose legislative field." In an overly loose legal field. Mr. Lawyer, Dr. Mir Cerar's overly loose legislative field two years earlier had absolutely nothing to do with it. Despite this overcrowding, it appeared the very next day when the KPK published a report prepared by Mr Stare and Mr Klemenčič. He didn't get in the way of this rash. He didn't get in the way. So when it comes to him and to him, he is not disturbed by overcrowding, when it comes to others, but yes. Once again, applying different principles to a similar situation or to different people in the same situation. By then changing this situation, the Supreme Court decided to abolish this decision. And now we're coming to the Fisher affair, where Mr Cerar says, "The decision of Fisher to insist on the situation is his personal decision." Obviously, Mr Cerar should add only one thing by this nature: that his decision respects it. Of course, he has not added this yet, but let us wait for the story to unfold. And he also said, "As President of the Government, I have no direct role to play in this process, so it is not appropriate for me to decide on any sanctions." Now I'm asking Mr. Cerar if he's a double moralist. What direct role did he play in the property affair, and what direct role did he play in the Thaler affair? At that time, he felt an inner urge to respond immediately, saying that he had no direct role to play and that he would not respond. And what else does it say about the dual morality of this government? We're her witness now. Consider the case of Fakin. Does the government have jurisdiction? Does the SMC have the competence, when so eloquently in this story, to have no authority to call or to say that they will not accept the current director or now know the director as the new director of the health insurance company? No, but he's still going for it. Does the Government or the Minister have the authority that when the proceedings are not at all completed in relation to the last case at the UKC, so they are still fully under investigation, the UKC is required to withdraw? No, but no problem. Do the Government or Mr Cerar have jurisdiction or the possibility of violating the Constitution in the case of the leader of the opposition? However, when the objective is to devote resources and double morality so requires, it also serves constitutional violations, although it is pointed out that it is sufficient for the voter's voice or sufficient for its internal political objectives. Look at the double morality that has been absorbed into the functioning of this government coalition, and when we talk about a public official who is at the head of the state prosecutor's office, for whom three institutions have found that something is seriously wrong, the government is still talking about political pressure. If I conclude with Mr Möderndorfer's words, which he did not say today, because today he said we were just sunbathing in front of the cameras and then he went to sunbathe himself in front of the cameras because otherwise he would have given up the word, in a talk show he said, "Dear Coalition, with this example you set standards." Here, you set standards, but if we follow these standards that you put in your position today, they are not like the standards you write in the coalition: zero tolerance for corruption. And we're back on double standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor. Mr Jan Mahnic should be prepared and then Mrs Jasna Murgel.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u59	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry, nice greetings! I also agree that today's meeting would not actually be necessary. Why not? Because I expected Mr Fisher to step down on his own immediately. In view of the fact that the four institutes found that they had violated the law, that they had acted corruptly, however, one would expect that he himself was a bit self-critical and would have made that move. How can a person file charges if he does not comply with the law himself? Similarly, the Council of State should immediately address this case and do its duty. Right away. And since all of this has not been done, we have put forward a proposal for an extraordinary session that we have today to draw attention to all these problems. We have heard many times, and we know that one who does also sin, who does much, has even more opportunity to sin. I understand. I can forgive if someone makes mistakes and makes mistakes because I know I do them myself. But here in this case it is not just about mistakes and it is not about a person who is legally ignorant in these matters, but it is about highly qualified lawyers in important functions who, however, know the law well. So I can't say that this is a mistake, but maybe a conscious error and a violation. Otherwise, I simply cannot explain this case if someone makes such decisions just before the change of power and if all these errors are identified by the competent institutions, he insists that he has done nothing wrong. Then this is about consciously making mistakes. They always answer in my ears the words of a citizen I met at an event that said to me: How should we ordinary citizens know what is true, when we get such different information, how should we know what is true and what is also true in the same different interpretations, with such different reports, with such different behaviours? True, citizens don't know what's true. They know what's right, but they don't know what's right. As a result, more and more remain at home and do not go to elections. Because they don't know who to trust anymore. And then what are the solutions? Because they don't believe in institutions, they don't believe in justice, then we need a law that prohibits the candidacy of convicted citizens. This is usually what citizens know and do not vote for. However, because they do not trust institutions, we need such meaningless laws for something that should in itself be reasonable. In Slovenia we have a problem of taking responsibility. Last but not least, we have cases in health care where it has been found that seven people have been killed and no one feels responsible for it. Is that even possible? Is that normal? That's not normal. Acceptance of responsibility. Who thinks he's irreplaceable to a function? Nobody's irreplaceable. You should also be more self-critical. If someone thinks he's not guilty and that he's going to apologize for this one day, then he should have confidence in the responsibility he has accepted so as not to undermine his trust in the institution. That's why someone's supposed to step down. So I'm not finally wondering if we can be permanently ruled by lies and misdirection. In this case, too, we face it. There will be no better situation in our country, and citizens will always be dissatisfied when they realize that institutions cannot trust that lies and deception rule us.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Mr. Jean Mahnič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u61	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Mr Secretary of State, fellow Members, fellow Members! The main question today is what we are telling Slovenian citizens and citizens about this debate. On the one hand, New Slovenia and the Slovenian Democratic Party report that, despite the fact that you are the Attorney General, if several authorities have found that you have violated the laws, that you have acted corruptly, you have to resign. On the side of the coalition this call is not to be heard, they say we wait for what the State Prosecutor's Council will say, but of course we know how it is here. We can expect the decision, we can not expect it, but we can expect it in the direction of moving it to an unknown location. So that the end of the mandate can be reached, either in 2018 or earlier, and Dr. Zvonko Fischer will continue to be the Attorney General of the Republic of Slovenia. Whenever there is a debate in this House about our judiciary, our judicial system is always the same debate. On the part of the opposition or on the part of two opposition parties, we listen to one thing, on the part of all others, exactly the opposite. I am surprised that, at least in the coalition agreement, you have not written down how you will act in these cases, then you probably would not have called me meetings either, since your direction in this matter would have been clear. At all costs, we will defend a corrupt court and a prosecutor's caste, regardless of what they are told, even if the KPC tells them so. We have proposed six conclusions, which you rejected in a row yesterday. The first decision was that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia took note of the decision of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia that, in the case of Boštjan Škrlec, the law had been violated and that it had been taken voluntarily in the exercise of power. You voted against it. This is said, despite the fact that we all know that the Administrative Court found out, the National Assembly did not know. The second point was that he took note of the decision of the KPK – one I will release – that the Attorney General of State, Dr Zvonko Fischer, gave Bosniak Škrlec the opportunity to benefit from the above-mentioned conduct of the third party, thereby fulfilling all the signs of corruption as defined in Article 4(1) of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. This is where you voted against it. Apparently, the entire Slovenian public is aware that this is the case, and the National Assembly continues to push its head into the sand and has apparently failed to come to terms with it. Third point. "The National Assembly took note of the findings of the Public Sector Inspectorate of the Ministry of Public Administration, who did not judge the appointment of Boštjan Škrlec as Director General of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, since the Administrative Court had already decided on this illegal appointment." You voted against reality again. "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia took note of the findings of the Ministry of Justice, which did not judge Boštjan Škrlec's appointment as Director General of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, as the Administrative Court has already decided on this illegal appointment." Again. Then there are only two well-intentioned conclusions, where we do not call on the State Prosecutor's Council anywhere, how it should decide whether or not to do so. "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the State Prosecutor's Council to take a position as soon as possible on the actions of the Attorney General, Dr. Zvonk Fischer." What's wrong here? We only call for this agony to end as soon as possible, that there will be no extraordinary meetings if this gentleman continues to serve as the Attorney General. And six times. "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to examine the possibility of amending the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office." On some other committees, when we propose this, it is confirmed, and unfortunately this has not been confirmed in this particular case. But on the one hand, I am quite pleased that we have Bell Fisher as Attorney General and Mr Branko Masleša, who is not the subject, as President of the Supreme Court. Because whenever I explain to anyone who is not from Slovenia what kind of people we have at the top of the Slovenian judiciary, at the top of the Slovenian prosecution, when I tell them their CV and what they are doing now that we live in the independent Republic of Slovenia, they look at me first and then ask me if it is a bet or not. And once again, when I explain to them that it's not a bet, everyone looks at me in amazement and asks me where we went. From the Macedonian MP to the senator from Canada. All of them have the same response. Even if these two gentlemen remain, or if Zvonko Fischer remains the Attorney General, it will, of course, be much easier to explain for the interpretation abroad of the people we have in the most important positions in Slovenia. Back then, we had a lot of concerns about the Fisher Bell. The Fisher Bell today represents, specialises everything that is wrong in Slovenia. Human rights violations, fraud, corruption and not taking responsibility for their wrong decisions. Much has been said as regards the embodiment of human rights violations. In 1977 he prosecuted two priests who were then released by the Supreme Court in 1995. Still, you named him. As far as fraud is concerned, there are also well - known stories about the personification of fraud when teaching, not taking vacations for it, but taking fat fees. As Bellko Fisher specialises corruption in Slovenia, it is also clear. This is what we are discussing today. As Bell Fisher specialises in not taking responsibility for wrong and illegal decisions, we can see when journalists come to him and ask him if you will resign, and he vehemently answers: Ah, come on, why should I. The will, the vehemence, the arrogance, it's Bell Fisher. He specialises everything that's wrong with us. And somewhere else it is. That's why no one takes responsibility. Yesterday we witnessed again that the minister called on the leadership of the UKC to resign. But of course, no one will back down. Mr Vrhunec and Mr Hojker are not at all, because Mr Zemlerič and Mr Miklavčič do not allow them to do so, but at least someone else could. Thus, in the UKC, the continuity of the udbomafija may continue. But it's the same everywhere. No one gives up if something's obvious to him. This is where the KPK, the inspection, the Administrative Court found. And then we're the ones who start some kind of demagogy, if that's what we're warning you about. I hope the State Prosecutor's Council will decide soon, and I know roughly what the decision will be. Like anyone who would publicly vote on his boss and fear that he will be on the side of a minority and that he will then be replaced by a mobile phone in the workplace.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Dr. Jasna Murgel has the word to prepare Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representative of the Ministry! We've been here all day, and we've been dealing with evidence yesterday about how we're supposed to get a backlog of corruption, and that because we're "supporting" the Attorney General's Attorney General, Dr. Zvonk Fischer, we're supporting corruption. Sorry, that's not true. We can have one of our own personal opinions, but we must not express this personal opinion as state officials within that authority that we have and execute here in this place. Why? Because we are interfering with the independence of the State Prosecutor's Council. If the State Prosecutor's Council finds that the reasons for the discharge of the Attorney General are given, we will be the first to vote in the SMC. But this is about actual respect for the rule of law as a whole, as a system, not just when it suits us. Why we voted on the committee against the proposed decisions. There were four of them. Finding out that we are familiar with the decisions of the state authorities. When they were published, we became acquainted with them, and we do not need to get to know them again. In addition, the debate on the Committee on Justice has taken place on this and in this way, to discuss and identify the facts which, in a particular case, can be identified exclusively by the State Prosecutor's Council under the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office. It was a specific case in which the National Assembly should not decide. It does not have the power to decide on this and to determine what the State Prosecutor's Council should determine, that is, whether the reasons for the discharge are given. That's what we discussed yesterday. If such decisions were adopted, they would interfere with the independence of the State Prosecutor's Council and challenge confidence in the State Prosecutor's Council, which is one of the state authorities empowered to make a concrete decision in this matter, whether the reasons for the discharge of the Attorney General's Office were given. This is therefore a matter of state stability, respect for the authorities that Parliament has set up and respect for the system. Parliament has adopted the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, has authorized the Council of State to decide on the conditions for discharge, and we must now allow it to do so. If we prejudge his decision, we discuss it, we interfere with his authority. In my opinion, it is also unacceptable to speculate on how the State Prosecutor's Council should decide. That's what I said yesterday, that some of you have an obvious crystal ball, and you can just predict what the State Prosecutor's Council will decide. This is also, in my opinion, unacceptable pressure in the SMC on the State Prosecutor's Council. If he decides what someone doesn't expect, we'll do what? Requesting the withdrawal of the entire State Prosecutor's Council? Who else? The President of the Government? Of course you will. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is why we have not been able to support these conclusions. This dangerously interferes with the system itself, throughout the country, into its foundations. We have a system, we have a system to remedy the breach. The system was set up by the National Assembly, adopted by the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, and this system is as it works. We have mechanisms that allow us to tackle a concrete solution. So, in a specific case, we have the State Prosecutor's Council, which is responsible for deciding whether an infringement is provided in this particular case which could be the basis for the discharge of the Attorney General. We must not, I repeat, discuss what is currently being debated by the State Prosecutor's Council. By doing so, we break the rules set by this Parliament itself. We break the rules because we challenge jurisdiction when we put pressure on the State Prosecutor's Council, how we should decide what we should decide when we discuss here. This is a specific matter that is decided by the State Prosecutor's Council, not something in general. It's a very specific thing. Then we expect and, of course, we know far-sightedly how the State Prosecutor's Council will decide. So, we set the rules here in the National Assembly, it doesn't matter which Members, such a law as we have, is in force. And in our firm conviction, we can change these rules further. Therefore, if it is necessary to amend the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, we will change it, but not on the basis of a specific case. You've already said that now the Law on Elections to the National Assembly and we're changing everything because of Janša. That's your opinion. We're changing it because I'm not going to discuss it. [[…]] We have not supported the conclusions because they represent something that has already been decided and this does not need to be highlighted in particular. However, the decision on the others constitutes an intervention in the powers of the State Prosecutor's Council, so we cannot agree and cannot agree to break the system, to challenge it here on our own, to destroy the balance between the branches of power in Parliament. When an appropriate decision is taken, this will then be the basis for the follow-up of the National Assembly. If it's served. We cannot do this right now, and all this debate is irrelevant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor to prepare Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mrs. Murgel, this would be quite credible if you weren't the judge. For God's sake, since it's normal, because I don't blame you, I actually congratulate you on the performance for the reason that you're defending your profession. That's where you came from, and that's where you're going. I understand. But viewers need to know why they're doing this. Then it's okay because they have complete information. You're saying we're interfering with the independence of the State Prosecutor's Council. Is the National Assembly also a branch of authority for you? It is, isn't it? Has it not been illegal for three years, unconstitutionally, to interfere with the work of the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in 2012? Yes, it is. For three years Janša sent invitations, three years he went there when he had to be there, instead of leading the government, for three years he did not do business in the National Assembly as he should, because he was going to illegal procedures, for illegal procedures. These are unconstitutional procedures. This isn't an intervention for you into the independent work of the legislative branch of power or what? Keep the same standards, and say that they have unlawfully interfered with the work of the National Assembly. That's right. If we move on. There's been a lot of talk here about the relationship between the branches of power. As a judge, you tell me who's in charge of the judges. Who's overseeing the judges? Who can return the mandate to Mr. Kangler? He was convicted, his term was taken, and then he was forgiven. Who's gonna be responsible for this now? Who will be responsible for this? That's exactly what happened. And then, judge, I suppose your colleague, because he's from Maribor, in some order, writes that Kangler poses a potential threat to return to politics and therefore has to go to prison. Be serious about this. Be serious about this. Isn't it the constitutional right of every citizen, including Kangler, to run? It's a constitutional right. The judge says that this judge has ruled whether his objection to postponement is enforced or not, or writes that Kangler is a threat to his return to politics. It's his constitutional right! And this judge is still sitting there. Then the Supreme Court rejected all this in one way or another and even said that it was not a crime. Now he's going back to court with one of your colleagues to intervene in his employment. He intervened in an unknown way. For there is nothing in the charge, neither is the place known, nor do they know where he has intervened, nor do they know when he has intervened, nor do they know how he has intervened, but he is still walking in the court. Who's in control of the judges? You're right, God and the blue sky. You've blown it up. We're in agreement here. God and the blue sky. That's right. There's something else I'd like to say on the next topic. When we speak of these divisions of power, it is logical, because we ourselves, speaking for the National Assembly, are prostitutiond against the judicial branches of government. Yes, of course, absolutely. Since you're assisting me, no, you're assisting the corruption and corruption of the Attorney General. Yeah, sure. The U.S. Attorney's Council will decide this afternoon, and we know that, and we don't have to have a bullet, because you can see it from the situation it is. Either he says he's not guilty or he says we wait for the Administrative Court. I will tell you today how long the Administrative Court will have this in its drawer, one 17 months, as far as the Attorney General has the mandate. But it will be your responsibility. Therefore, I will hand over the framework, if the leader of the Group of Members is not present to you as representatives of the SMC. It can't be like that. It just can't be like that. And don't talk about sharing power and tralling and hopsas, but if the Attorney General isn't ready, he's been sitting there for four years. [[…]] He has a legal deadline of 15 April to send a report to the National Assembly for four years. For four years, he did not respect this marriage. And we're quiet. Now he's committed corruption and we're still quiet. Why did your president, as Mr Logar used to say, once and for all? Once a KPK is a serious institution, which we must absolutely respect and its integrity and everything else when Janez Janša is the subject, but when the prosecutor is the subject, oh, that would not be. I wouldn't do that. I suggest you and I will also help you write an amendment to your coalition program within the course of the day. Zero degree of tolerance, but round: except when it comes to ours. Then that'll be fine. You don't write anything into the coalition program or your client or coalition, you write about how you're going to fight corruption, nothing, corruption is nothing, but if it's the Attorney General, then it's ours. But we won't be ours. But we won't be ours, and we won't be ours. It's like work. When yours logs in, then they have to report from below to the head, so that the head coordinates it, that all yours is in all places, where it must be. No, Mrs. Murgel, I'm talking about this because I'm talking about you having a double morale. It's a double morale. Don't talk about us being when we are. Yeah, we won't. We're not going to discuss Fisher anymore. Yeah, we'll do it while we're sitting here. And very soon. At the same time, if you continue to protect him, because if you give one clear, loud word from yourself, not you personally, but the party as such and the President of the Government, where you would also very clearly take a position, you do not need to take a different position than Janša did. I should say that the PKK is an independent state institution and its decisions must be respected. He didn't say that. Why did he do something different? And Mr. Fisher with that backpack is still sitting there. It says upstairs: corrupt Fisher. But this matter, this corruption of Mr. Fisher, as of today, is upon you. You are his mentors, you are the guarantor of his existence, the guarantor of his job and have him. I don't have a problem with that. Have him, but tell him you support corruption. So write the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u66	Thank you. All Discussants [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Just give me a moment to give you my word. I ask all the debaters politely to stick to the agenda. Now Dr. Jasna Murgel has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u67	Thank you very much. This is exactly what I was going to ask you to ask the debaters to limit themselves to the topic that today is the subject of this debate, because the fact that I am a judge or anything else you mentioned, my dear colleague Gorenak, really has nothing to do with it. Whether we are discussing courts, justice or not, perhaps in a broader sense, we have not discussed the courts, and I really advise you to look at article 179 of the Bond Code and a little bit about the immunity of Members and so on. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u68	Thank you. Xenia Rootjak Kramar has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u69	Thank you very much. I wanted to say the same thing. Besides, I don't know what you didn't react to right away, which I also object to. So I am warning you that I am asking you to react in time, because otherwise our procedurals are irrelevant. Article 69 of the Rules of Procedure is clear. I think that the debate in this direction was completely inappropriate and unnecessary because we are sticking to the agenda. That's my procedural proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Procedurally Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Vice President, Madam President! The president said several times in this National Assembly that he also allowed for a somewhat broader debate in the debate. Today, standards are changing. Why? Is it simply because one member group feels threatened? I really don't understand. What are these double criteria? Were we not discussing justice and not, after all, the subject that we are dealing with? I really don't know why now in some way it's just a restriction. I know you're new now, but look at some of your president's opinions and do the same, because we'll all be funny together.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u72	Thank you very much. The motioner has the floor. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u73	Thank you very much. I don't want to get involved, but this is the first time you've held a meeting of the National Assembly. I will agree with Mrs Korenjak that we need to talk about a topic that, roughly as I have, I have stuck to it, this time I agree with you. But at the same time, I'd like to ask you one thing. In addition to sticking to the darkness, it is very good to speak accurately. And you said this morning that our conclusions were about confirming the judgment, confirming the KPK report, confirming the findings of the inspection. That's not true. I wanted to point out the accuracy. We said we were getting to know each other. That's what the conclusion says. Mrs. Murgel, I thought this thing about the judges was honorable. Just because you're a judge, it's easy for you in time, that wasn't an insult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Anya Bah Žibert has the word. Let's get Marian Pojbich ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Perhaps it is right that I turn a little further to the position of the Social Democrats or to you, the vice-president you have gathered before. I totally understand him. This is not the end of your intimate relationship with this matter. I believe that you still have to defend Mr Fisher in some way. Why? Because all this has happened in your government. The fact is, he was 9. 2. 2012 the last day of your government and then Mr Škrlec was appointed Director-General of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office. And even more so that this city could be occupied, you've only appointed him in your government a few days earlier as a senior state prosecutor. These are the facts. I believe it's hard for you to find yourself here or whatever you're challenging. But the problem is somewhere else. I'll get there a little later. The problem is that you are saying that today's debate is political pressure and I will tell you why. But nice and easy. I suppose, Mrs Ksenija Korenjak Kramar, that what you said in your position today's debate is inappropriate because it interferes with or represents some pressure, is also true of your fellow Member. I believe you will agree at home whether the debate is yes or not. I don't think so, and I'm glad to hear from my colleague, Jasna Murgel. Allow me to read one of the positions presented at the 5th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in this composition. It discusses the standards and standards of the parliamentary mandate. The norm of openness "allows them to seek comprehensive information and opinions in their operations and to have free and unlimited access to anyone at any time, as this is necessary to make decisions for public interest and good. Finally, we are talking about the standard of responsibility that Members and Members take for the decisions taken and so that they can control the functioning of the country smoothly and without burden." State control. "Only when, together with legally defined standards, moral pre-conditions are also met can it be expected that the country, by its Members and Members, can be represented and guided without burden of its own interests and with the highest possible authority and integrity to serve the public good of its people." Colleagues and colleagues, this is part of your group leader's debate. She spoke of the duty of a Member to inform that it is our duty to control as much as possible. And that, of course, we make our own decisions, not least is it about morality, ethics and integrity. But what's sad? That this speech is from the session when you took your mandate to our president and to my colleague, Janez Janša. That is why morality, integrity, and also the kind of debate that is ever appropriate and when the time is right, tells everything. If I were you, I'd think hard. To return to political pressure now, this has been repeatedly expressed. I'm expecting, and I'm really surprised that you and the perpetuators aren't in court yet. For today you say that the decision of the Administrative Court is political pressure. For our desire was only to know the decision of the Administrative Court. So these decisions are political pressure. We have a political court in your opinion. What are you waiting for? I think we need to get our suitcases together and go before the courts or in front of the government, I don't know where. The Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, as well as its decision, is political. Nice. Is it just that it's probably only when it comes to yours or how? Now I expect from you, because these are all political matters and political pressures to require you to resign your Justice Minister, who wrote such political pressure. And now it's about time, because it's going to be kind of hard to perform this function, because today you've been talking about it. The fact that Mr Fisher acted unlawfully has in some way also been decided by the Inspectorate within the Ministry of Public Administration. So, this is also a political action. The Ministry of the Interior and their special commission are also a political decision. We wanted to talk only about getting to know these reports. What's political about it? Unless you consider these to be political decisions. And if so, then it is imperative that we make a fundamental change in this country. One more thing. Speaking of Mr Fischer's work, it is right to recall what has already been highlighted today, but I think that is too little. Mr Fisher has repeatedly violated legislation by simply not submitting his report to this National Assembly. When I pointed this out and even suggested that the ministry do some work control, you were against it. So much for what a controlling role you are. Last but not least, the so - called policy of persecution, which he was obliged to mediate in accordance with the law in the National Assembly, did not intervene in a timely manner. It's also a reflection of something. And you will say over and over again that the policy puts pressure on the work of independent judicial authorities. Please. But I didn't hear you when Mr Fisher said he wouldn't come to one of the meetings because a political party called her. Who else will? Is he going to call her now? Let's think about it a little bit. And I think, Your Honor, it's still important that we talk about this today. Unless things are different, it is necessary to talk so long that at least the person concerned, and this is Mr Fisher, will be dedicated to the fact that it is time for him to leave the function. I know he's been in there since 1971, that the times were different then, that he was doing a lot of things, and he was rewarded for that, but today's times are a little different. And it is our duty to keep that in mind, for this is not his personal function. You can't privatize yourself like that, but you're helping him. As long as you don't stop by, help him. I absolutely support that the State Prosecutor's Council has all the powers, not least have they also talked about not coming to the meeting because it is their right, of course, absolutely. They don't even have to respond, but on the other hand, let me tell you my opinion about the State Prosecutor's Council. Someone who has confirmed this function after this well-known affair, I find it difficult to believe that after a year or two, he will change his decision in any way. It's really hard for crows to turn their eyes off. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u76	Thank you very much. The word is Marijan Pojbič. Get Bojan Podkoršek ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. First, I wonder what the coalition is afraid of. I don't know if you're afraid of the truth. You all know that it is the truth, and you know exactly what the truth is, but in all possible ways in this National Assembly you try and defend corruption and violation of the law and defend the perpetrators. And that's what's distasteful and unacceptable for this temple of democracy. That is why I think it is still important that this meeting of the National Assembly is under way today, because it is a violation of the laws of the highest national authorities. If this is not enough reason for us in the legislative branch of the Authority to discuss this issue and to try to warn and influence those authorities in this society or country responsible for resolving the situation in question in such a way that we try to explain to them here in the National Assembly that something is very wrong in this area. Dear colleagues, why did I make such an introduction? The administrative court of the Republic of Slovenia shall be 11. 12. 2012 issued judgment number one and the following: "When appointing Boštjan Škrlec to the post of Director-General of the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office, held on 9. 2. 2012", that is, the day before the second Janša government, "executed by Mr...", which I must not talk about, "and the Attorney General Dr. Zvonko Fischer, it was" – it is said that this was - "a violation of the law". And that's all we're talking about today in the National Assembly. I want those of us sitting in this House to understand that. This was recorded by the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia and the following act, the appointment of Boštjan Škrlec as Director-General of the Supreme State Prosecutor, the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia referred to him as "voluntary in the exercise of power". So he was going to say it was an abuse of power. However, if this is not one of the extremely problematic things, on which we must be all those who are politically and otherwise responsible in this country, because this time it is a matter of justice, some right in this country, which must be the same for all and we cannot afford to defend one another in such a way, and others can do exactly what they think they are doing. [[…]] Then we have the Commission to prevent corruption, which wrote: "Dr. Zvonko Fischer, Attorney General, has violated the obligation to act on 9 2. 2012 proposed to the Minister of Justice Tu-K 3/2012/5-7 for the appointment of the Director-General of the Supreme Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Slovenia for a period of five years, although a previous or final public tender as required by Article 140 of the ZDT-1 has not been issued and an appropriate decision of the State Prosecutor's Council has been adopted, as provided for in Article 62 of the ZDT-1, which are the only options or procedures provided by law for the legitimate occupation of the said post." Next: "The above-mentioned conduct has enabled a third party to benefit from a non-profit advantage in the form of the employment of the Director-General of the Supreme Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Slovenia, thereby fulfilling all the signs of corruption as defined in Article 1(4) of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption." So when we listen to all this, Mr. Head of Public Prosecutor's Office, Mr. Fisher, hopes to claim on the board that the KPK is a service for discrediting people. Now I ask you, then, what did Fisher say happened when the government of Janez Janša collapsed, when they discredited our President indefinitely on every possible whim. What was Fisher doing back then? Where was he then to say what he said yesterday at the meeting, if that's what he meant? According to him, this is an absolute body that is unacceptable to Slovenian political space. That's what he said yesterday, with those words. And nothing. Nothing. You continue to stand up for this man in cold blood for all possible reasons. If these are not double criteria, then I don't know what the double morals or double criteria are. On the one hand, we have privileged people, after what we have heard recently, we can uncompromisingly say that this is Mr Maslesha, who is one of those who, if I recall correctly, said that Janez Jansho should be fucked. And he's still sitting on his chair today. What kind of democratic society are we? If this were to happen in developed European countries, what do you think would happen to such a person? I wouldn't be sitting there for 30 seconds anymore, not even 30 seconds. You, the coalition, without any problem, defend such independence here in this House. And among them, after all we hear, we are talking today about Mr Fisher. Pure privileged. Then in this society of ours, we have a whole bunch of privilege holders. Why am I saying this? We have Kučan, who has two pensions – that is to say to the Slovenian people – and the poor people have 300, 400 or 200 euros in pensions. Then we have Earthrič, Isajlović, Jankovic, Matejo Kožuh Novak, Stanovnik, Kocjančič, Rigelnik and all these old boys who control even the Slovenian economy. Not to mention the media lobbyists, Šetinec, Struklok, Semolic, Mencinger and so on and so forth. On the one hand, a privileged group which is totally untouchable in this society. Not to mention Jankovic and so on. They can do what they want in this society, on the other hand, my dear friends, and we have workers who are already on minimum wage; we have pensioners who have worked for 40 years for charity, today get 450 and 500 euros in pensions; we have a lot of unemployed; we have disabled people living in extremely difficult circumstances and so on and so on. When will this adulterous Slovenian Parliament once understand and understand that the Slovenian Democratic Party does not want to live in such a corrupt country? We want those of whom I have spoken, on the one hand and on the other hand, to be able to spend their lives with justice, dignity and dignity in this society, and to be free from ultra-privileged, tenth-potential thieves, and on the other hand most of the Slovenian people, who must work and be very quiet. He can't say a word. It's just silence. If he steals a ten-cent bagel, he'll get four or five months in prison. He can't even pay his lawyer to defend him in court of law. Slovenian society is so far away. And today, let only someone else tell me that there is a right in this country. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it has been said many times today: independence, independence, and we have a union of independence, and we have an independent functioning of the banking system, and we have an independent judiciary, and we have an independent prosecution, and we have an independent, independent, independent, and able to speak for 14 days independently. Where did this country come from with this independence? We cannot and will never defend such independence in the Slovenian Democratic Party. That on the one hand we have the privilege of living as small gods, and on the other hand most of the poor Slovenian people who break through or do not even know whether they can come from one point to another, is between 1st and 31st or 30th in the month. We're trying to stop this. In this society, there must be the same rule and legislation for Fisher, Masleša, the President of the Government, the President of the State as for us Members and for each individual in this society. Our society must become a society of honesty, justice and accountability. That must be our primary objective. But as long as we have such a coalition and such a government in this country that will defend corruption and those who are in the highest positions of state and who are clearly violating legislation, because this is proven through these documents that we all have here on the table, so long as the poor Slovenian nation can only be helped by God, no one else can help him. I hope that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are such a strong party, such a mature party and so determined that we will go along this path as we do now, and prove to this Slovenian people that it will make the right decision in the elections and make such a decision to benefit and everyone, not for the benefit of individual groups, elite groups living as small gods today, but for everyone else one spoon of water is possible, and that is the question if it remains. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mrs. Murgel. Yeah, she's not. Okay, I'll answer Mr. Pojbich. He wondered what the Attorney General was doing in 2013. I was a minister at the time. You must have been thinking about that period after the report, as I understand it, it's also a period of demonstration. Journalists then dug up some place, and I read in the newspaper that he made one college and ordered prosecutors that all those brought in by the police, that is, beating, breaking up, should be extremely restrictively interpreted by legislation as long as Janša’s government is in power. That's what the paper said. Otherwise, I'd like to say a little bit more about it because he didn't allow me time before, but now I have something else. Mr Fisher spoke yesterday about the prosecution being completely disqualified. That's exactly what I agree with him. But why? Because he's got a corrupt person at his head. Not because someone would want something for him. What can we do to him? Nothing. How can we influence the decisions of any prosecutor if he throws an accusation, let's just say that the reporter needs to be blown up. Remember that story? After the attack on the French satirical week, the Mitja Treasurer appeared, which has an extremely similar writing style as some of the pirates of one of the political parties in this room, and this Mitja Treasurer wrote about the fact that there was nothing in France that would still be what will be on the Reporter, the devil when they blow it up. And the D.A. dropped it. It's not a crime. If it were Youth, it would be. How, then, do we affect them? We can't influence them. No way. But it is true that he himself, with his own attitude, with his corruption and his insistence on continuing to be there, has here in the National Assembly botres, we see today, and then it is logical. So we can agree that the disqualified is the entire prosecution's organisation. Yesterday he also said this: You know, the prosecution is doing great, we have come too far. What did he mean by that, I don't know. He probably wanted to brag. However, the basic data on the prosecution’s work does not indicate anything to be said. A couple hundred thousand euros takes the assets of an illegal origin after three years of law and in the first year, the Serbs take 100 million? There's nothing to brag about here. Five billion in banks, and now prosecutors have written indictments for 200 million. You got something to brag about? Probably not. It is true, however, that he came too far, as Mr Fisher said, in the Patria case, because his prosecutors wrote down a political structure, he went to court and even to the Constitutional Court he had to come. Then the Constitutional Court said, "Throw it in the trash bin, it'll be nothing." That's how far this prosecutor has come. In fact, it goes on with the tradition. An illegal 1977 judgment when he shut down those priests who set up the cross and now again an illegal judgment in the Patrio case. Even unconstitutional. He's come a long way. And the backpack's still got it. He also talked about taking over yesterday. You know, this man is extremely difficult to communicate with. I think the public has actually seen this and that the public actually knows it. The Constitutional Court declared the transition of the prosecution from the judiciary to the interior ministry a constitutional one. Yesterday, in 2015, he was still talking about the hostile takeover of the prosecution by the Ministry of the Interior. Go ahead. It is true that he has been a prosecutor since 1971, so it would have been already time to retire first, but I see that, of course, there is still this advocacy of gentlemen. I'll keep going when Mrs. Murgel gets back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u80	Thank you very much. The word has Bojan Podkoršek, to be prepared by Jan Škoberne and Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u81	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Speaking of justice, the prosecution and the judiciary, there's nothing wrong if maybe one of us goes a little to the left, a little to the right. When I listened to the position of the current Vice-President when she said that today's meeting was a political debate, I have to admit that I had a little thought. I must say, I returned to my thoughts 24 years ago. Somewhere in 1991, I sat in my place, of course, 24 years younger, in a group of older people. Some of those with whom we sat together also went to Ljubljana several times. And when Demos was the government, someone in this group says we're not gonna give up justice. When I was young, 24 years younger, I didn't understand it at all, and many times I wondered what it meant. Who would the court give or not give it to? I even had doubts that the judiciary would remain in Yugoslavia, in the previous country. I never understood what that sentence meant. We don't give the court. Whose trial is it? I remember a lot of older people saying that if they say it on TV, it's true. We soon realized that the weather forecast was not correct. Of course, today's debate worries me. I'm very glad we have lawyers, lawyers, even judges in this National Assembly. And they, our colleagues and colleagues, do not find common ground when we talk about the work of the sick judiciary and the prosecution. I must say that in the judiciary and the prosecution there are many people working well and working for the good of the Republic of Slovenia. But there are individuals who run these things and do harm. When we've been following the Republic of Slovenia for 25 years, a lot of vague things have happened to me. When they happened, I didn't even believe in them, but when the sky cleared up, it was crystal clear to me that the people who run these institutions were doing what some of them wanted. If there were no basic rules in this country, I would point to the two things that have happened in this mandate. These will remain in my memory. The first thing is when we wanted our fellow Member in every way from this Chamber. Soon it became clear that there had been injustice, and some had laughed before, and some had laughed after the guilt had been known. However, there is something missing in this country, but for me, yesterday is proof of the day when I watched TV and listened to the Minister of Health in the Republic of Slovenia and the Director of UKC. Dear colleagues and colleagues, when you listen to this for five minutes, there is no need for you to be an expert either in justice or in health or in education for, I don't know, it's an indicator that things don't count in our country. If this had happened in neighbouring Austria or Germany or any other country, today it would not have been the director of the UKC or would not have been the minister. These are things that no longer work in the Republic of Slovenia. Why aren't they working? They don't work because of what we've been talking about all day. This is a 25-year-old history that has not been cleaned up, and today they suffer from health care, justice, the prosecution and education, and they suffer all over Slovenia. I think that these are very serious topics to mock each other and that we do not want to make a basic order in this area. As long as there are people in these visible situations who are doing harm in all these areas, today we are talking about the prosecution, you can believe that we are not writing well in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Jan Škoberne has the word to prepare Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues! You've probably noticed that the prom is past us today. One nice association with the event or discussion here from ten years ago, when the subject or work that we were discussing at that time was the High Chronicle in Slovenia. This fantastic work by Ivan Tavčar speaks of witchcraft processes and in a small way reminds us of what is happening here. All on average, past known and established rules, in some high clouds and in some third name, all about everyone, but of course without evidence and without those who have to decide. We know how the High Chronicle ends and we know what it says. The last magical process was completed on our soil in 1701, in the meantime it happened quite a bit. In Europe, we have developed a legal state where it is clear who decides what to do, because it is clear what the procedures are, and where it is clear that the independence of those who are competent to decide such important matters is not affected, it is not pressured and the same criteria apply to all. I'm sure we'll agree with Comrade Gorenak. Today, when you attack an institution that is important, for example, the PKK, you stress the terrible injustice that has occurred to your President. At the same time, always forget to say that, as a result of the report of this same commission, for example, the Social Democrats have denied the support of Zoran Jankovic, who had the same ambition as your President to lead the government. Why? Because it is the basic assumption of the European rule of law that it is necessary to trust in the rule of law system, that it must be supported, and that the judgments it makes must also be believed and respected. Just as it is necessary to respect the judgment of the Constitutional Court, which has undoubtedly carried out the judgments that have burdened your President and brought them back to the first hearing. I sincerely hope that your President will have the opportunity and the opportunity to prove his innocence, or that the prosecution will have the opportunity and the opportunity to prove his guilt. What is actually most problematic in this room today is that from the party that has the biggest problems with totalitarian receptions, with totalitarian systems, we are actually experiencing one demonstration of the classic maocetung lynching of people who cannot defend themselves here, people who will prove their right and their innocence in one way or another in the places that are suitable for this. We attack and prejudge the decisions of the State Prosecutor's Council. I think it's made up of experts who have proven their credibility, their independence in one way or another, and they don't deserve your attacks. Just as today does not deserve this consideration, Mr Zvonko Fischer, whom I think it is right to say his own words where it is for him to decide. And if the State Prosecutor's Council finds that there has been a violation of the law, that it has acted unlawfully – which, if everything you say holds, is likely to find out – the matter will be resolved, the solution will be proposed if it does not, nor will it. And maybe after that we could discuss it. But today, when we wait for these decisions, when we only operate on guesses, crowds, frustrations of one and the other, it's a shame, in fact, if nothing else, that we destroy the opportunity to talk about other things. From 2005 until now, poverty risk has increased by almost 2%. This is, for example, one thing that we should focus on, certainly more than on the question of how and when the State Prosecutor's Council will decide. Throughout this period, we have taken important measures to prevent this level of risk of poverty from growing further, that today we have economic growth, that unemployment has been reduced, and that we have trends that clearly show that better times are also coming in Slovenia. It is probably possible to agree with you that we need a reform of justice. To begin with, it would be an important step that the opposition, which is certainly the bearer of important constitutional tasks, appoints its people to the bodies of this assembly to cooperate properly, to perhaps even let go or take advantage of any opportunity to meet such as this, not to convene. Sometimes it is better to be quiet than to say things we cannot even make decisions about, and of which there is no benefit. There is no benefit in this session today. And perhaps people can only resent us for wasting our time, wasting our electricity, and creating an additional environmental burden. Thus, decisions will be known when decision makers are known and when we know clearly that we have no authority to decide on this subject today. The law is clear, you are attacking it, and we are defending the regulation that we have in this country, defending the laws that are in force, and we are trying to say in every way today that if anything, it is important that we maintain an independent and independent judiciary. I am not a judge and a prosecutor, so I can probably say this and you will probably not be too angry if I express my sincere expectation that we will continue to discuss how to regulate the Slovenian judiciary, but in a constructive way, not by demonstrating the witch hunt, which is beautifully described in the High Chronicle. If anyone has a desire to rekindle the memories of these processes, he can take this work into his hands and relive these stories. But I think we have all the tools available to show people that it is possible to work differently and better in this congregation. Thank you very much, and I look forward to your responses.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u84	Thank you. Procedurally has Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I must express a bitter protest over how you run this session. I think that your fellow Member who came to the National Assembly some day ago, with these disqualifications, has afforded much too much and beyond what is the subject of this item of the agenda. You didn't intervene, you didn't give him a warning, you didn't interrupt him in a stupid debate. If any party is an orthodox heir to the totalitarian regime in this National Assembly, it is a party to the Social Democrats. Advocate of post-war killings, a sea that has not yet been on Slovenian soil. These were the times of the worst magical processes. Your client advocates and prevents the victims of the witch process immediately after the end of World War II, after you celebrated the victory in the Republic of Slovenia, to be buried with dignity in order to mark the graves and so on. Madam Vice-President, I propose that you suspend this meeting at this time and decide how you will act in the event of your Member's debate. You have the authority. One who does not speak according to the agenda is worthy of a reminder, and you owe it to him. Because what has been qualified and thrown on our side is completely contrary to all the recent history that has occurred in this country, to the history of independence and also to the history of independence. Madam Vice-President, if you wish to carry out your duties as stated in the Rules of Procedure, the President, including you, shall agree with your President and with the others and carry out your work in accordance with the provisions which are intended for this purpose. We don't expect anything different from you or anyone else who would run this meeting. I suggest that all of these unacceptable debates be suspended and punished accordingly, as we should have done with any debater who has previously advertised on the other side. I suggest you take action.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u86	Thank you very much. I'm not going to interrupt the meeting, but it's true that for the first time I've held a meeting, and actually, in the future, it can happen that I'm going to interrupt someone. Now I give my word to the proposer, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u87	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u88	Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President, I understand that Mr Škoberne is a new Member of your parliamentary group, but you are in line with all that your President of the National Assembly is doing in the debate, and you simply have to say some of the measures you have set out for this. This is unacceptable for you to try to do in such a sublime manner by discussing your fellow Member. This is inappropriate, unworthy and unworthy of the role of Vice-President of the National Assembly. Unworthy. Because they do not hold the statement because they are false and they also disqualify members of my parliamentary group and also our clients. Madam Vice-President, I propose that you choose, in accordance with Rule 66 of the Rules of Procedure, what you will do, because that is why you are there and why you are holding the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u90	Thank you very much. As I mentioned, today is Mr Škoberne's first time in our midst, and he has taken note of this. I've taken note of it myself, and in the future, we'll try to follow all of these instructions. We're moving on to the session. The text is by the proposer, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u91	And I'll be with you, Mr. Scoberne, gentler because you're here for the first time. But determined. Let's go in one order. You're telling me we're not working together properly, we're holding meetings, and I don't know what. You'd be right at the election, wouldn't you? Illegally, unconstitutionally incarcerated party president, and now you're talking about fair elections. Where did you see that? Let's go race for a little while. But we're going to hang one bullet or ten kilos on your leg and you won't be able to win. That's not right, is it? You demand correctness and cooperation, and you did not allow this to happen in the elections. Economic growth, unemployment, great. But this government hasn't done anything yet. If she did something, Janša’s government did something, and then Brother’s 5 billion added. You borrowed it. Otherwise, this government is nothing. You're talking about poverty and everything. You're saying you have no evidence that we're talking without evidence. Look at the verdict, I'll give it to you if you don't have it. KPK report, I'll give it to you if you don't have it. The judgment states that he acted unlawfully and misused power. KPK says Mr. Fisher acted corruptly. That's another piece of evidence. Inspection services, 16 violations, third evidence. Fourth, the findings of Minister Klemenčič. With the combination of two laws that would not then be corrected by the Secretary of State, he came, called him in an illegal way. And you're telling me we don't have any evidence. I just gave them to you. If you don't have them, I'll give them to you with a bow up, because they'll be red. We're attacking KPK. We're not attacking KPK. The KPK is attacking Mr Fischer, who said the KPK is an institution for the discreditation of people. We're not attacking KPK. Not at all. We're attacking the Commonwealth Council. When? If I've heard it correctly, you need to justify it. With what? How? Who did this? I'll go first. To attack the law. What kind of law do we attack? Of course I went to look at your education and now I'm not surprised. It's all right. Do you know what you've said? You should never do that. A student needs to know that in his first year of law school. You said you hoped that John Janša would have the opportunity to prove that he wasn't guilty. Please! If a law student does something like that in his first year of law school, he should fly out of college. You were on the FDV, so now I understand. Or do we not have the prosecution and the court to convict someone on the basis of evidence, rather than prove that the citizen is innocent? Your colleagues, I mean, especially those who were journalists after their education, wrote when this judgment fell in the Constitutional Court. Diary: Will John Janša ever stand before the judges? Job: Will John Janša ever be condemned? Mrs Levičar, you can go out because it will be good, because you have the same consequences with the FDV. Look at the situation below. It's a perfectly normal story to think like that. Instead of asking the press, the FDV graduates, which I know you both have asked differently and asking the question in a different way. What kind of justice do we have that has unlawfully sent a man to prison? That would be the real question. Of course, then such a thing can come from here to prove that it is not his fault. Please! Then I'll be a little police officer, we'll go down to Povjetov or the courthouse, and you prove you didn't do anything. I'll say you are. I'll make something up. Do you think you'll prove it? You're not going to prove it. Your Honor has to prove to you that you're guilty. I mean, really not like that. That's not how it's gonna work. But I was very gentle now, and the second time I won't be like this, because now it was your first performance. These things really need to be put in their place, because otherwise we'll just never come to our place again, for a fundamental reason, because in the foundation, I won't say anything new if I tell you what I think about the FDV. It's just the way it is, because there's been a system exactly the same for years. It's exactly the same all the years. They replaced only that inner enemy in 1990 and the class enemy with the SDS, and they teach exactly the same. Your Luksic is the same story. He's still sending students to the church to think a little bit about how he's got a sermon and then he's got a diploma from it. That's no way for me to go there, at least not what I'm learning. The Constitutional Court, in the case of Mr Fischer, in the case of Patrio, has made its case very clear. But the students of Ljubljana's Faculty of Law, which are mostly judges and prosecutors, did not understand that. They've got whole headquarters on this now. The new judge also has a headquarters. She's already been assigned. They understood this judgment quite differently. They understood that they were going to justify something better, that everything was going to be okay, and they're going to get him inside. But that's not true. If you have read the Constitutional Court's ruling is said by peasants, I like to say by peasants, say: Throw it in the trash can. There is no evidence, but there is no evidence, and under Article 28 of the Constitution, you cannot judge a man against whom you have no evidence. That's what the Constitutional Court said. She didn't say anything else. But I repeat that because Mr Fisher is in the back. Mr. Fisher, we're talking about. This is Mr Fischer, for whom the media, in 2012, when Mr Jankovic composed the government, made it very clear that he had received a police complaint against Mr Jankovic and that he then flew quickly to Mr Kučan, and that he had no use of supporting Jankovic anymore because the indictment had arrived. That's politics. Now he's saying that we're putting political pressure on him, and you're supporting him. That's bullshit. I'm not talking about you right now, I'm talking about all of you talking about political pressures. It's like taking a pocket, spitting in and then wondering where you got something on your hand when you put your hand in your pocket. You're saying we're putting political pressure on him. Who's putting political pressure on him? Who asked him to do something? Let him start going to work, that's the first. Yeah, he's got to start going to work, because as far as the prosecutors tell me, the situation is a little different. Two days at home and a little bit at college. Today, in 2013, he did not realize that you cannot get two wages for work at the same time. You can't get two paychecks. When the press asked him if he got a fee for up there when he was on the Hill, he said, "Yes, of course, of course. They said, "Well, you taught at work. No, it's part of my function, it's an upgrade to my function. He said something like that. I think then the minister made a profit or asked him something, at least on the basis of my question, but now he's said he's given the money back so he won't cash it anymore. How can he do that? How can he do that? He doesn't understand that at all. It's the same as any of the Members who have this permission of the National Assembly is still a bit cashier. It's like if I wasn't here right now, but I'd be in college teaching there. My salary would've run out, and that's where they'd pay my fee. Isn't that nice? But he's doing it in 2015. In 2004, however, the whole state administration adopted instructions that this could not be the case. That's impossible. This man lives in a completely different world. What else did he say yesterday? He said, "I did it legally. You socialists are masters of this, let's translate it into another language. I don't admit this court. That's it. He said, "I did the law. However, the Court’s judgment states that he unlawfully hired Mr. Skrlec. He says, "I have done the law, and I have the opinion of a recognized lawyer, Dr. Grad, that this is the case and that this court is wrong. That's what he said yesterday. That's what he said yesterday. It's the same thing I said before, I don't admit this court. You're still wearing his backpack or something. Then yesterday he convinced me that he had hired an eminent expert in the prosecution's organization of Chief Prosecutor Škrlec. That's great. Wasn't he the secretary of state? But the Secretary of State is a politician. But now that you're not a secretary of state anymore, you put on a second shirt and say, "I'm an expert now. It's the same as me applying for some criminal job at the NPU and writing that I have a doctorate, I have that, that, that, that, that, that, that, I have 30 years of work experience and I'm an expert. Bravo. Who's gonna believe that? Who's gonna believe that? Do not have double criteria in these matters. This gentleman has these double criteria. He's an expert all of a sudden. 9. 2. 2012 was an expert, but he used to be a politician. No, let's not have and don't have double standards like that. But to you, Mr Škoberne, I really suggest that you consider such matters as these, who must prove something to someone. The court and the prosecutors are proving guilty and not a person. It's true that we do. It's true with us. If you're accused of being in an unknown place, on an unknown day, in an unknown way accepting bribes, then it's the devil. You can't prove otherwise. Do you have to prove it or what? Wrong world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u92	Procedural? A replica? The replica has Jan Skoberne. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u93	Your Honor, thank you for your word. Mr Gorenak, thank you very much, I have said this wrong, I understand that too, so I sincerely apologize and thank you. Let me paraphrase and fix it. I sincerely hope that the process will be completed and that it will be known whether or not Mr Janez Janša is innocent. But I want to say once again what was the primary purpose of my debate, and I think we all understand it here. If it is known which institution must decide by law and if it is known that this national assembly is not, then this debate here seems unnecessary. But we can talk about judicial reform, we can talk about things that are relevant. But today we are doing this kind of and different kind of pressure, and today we are discussing something that will be properly decided, and I don't think it's necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u94	Thank you. The word is Iva Dimic. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u95	Thank you so much for saying that. Madam President, I would like to suggest that you instruct your member for a few hours and tell him that the National Assembly deals with all those points that are on the agenda of each meeting of the National Assembly. Not what anyone thinks we should deal with, but those points that are classified. The points shall be placed on the agenda by special procedure. And if Members of the Social Democrats think that there are matters to be discussed in the National Assembly, then they should prepare material for the meeting of the National Assembly. If it is not prepared by the coalition or the government, let them prepare it themselves, file it, and we will discuss it. If you think there is a need to discuss increasing poverty, we will also come on Sunday. As far as our parliamentary group is concerned, that is not a problem. Just prepare the material so that we can have a point on the agenda and we will discuss it. Today, we are not discussing anything at this meeting of the National Assembly, for which the conditions are not met. We deal with the matter exactly according to the rules laid down in the National Assembly. Since you are the President, Vice-President of the National Assembly, I propose that you teach the members of your parliamentary group when they discuss differently than is envisaged in the schedule of the National Assembly and with the topics included. This is the minimum standard that each Member of the National Assembly must know. Minimum standard. To know when to apply for a discussion, what to talk about. To know which item is on the agenda and how to get the point on the agenda of the National Assembly. This is a good way to teach them to avoid all these complications and inconveniences that sometimes occur especially when those who should do something in this country do nothing and do nothing. The main task of those who should propose is not laws and improvements, but other matters, particularly human resources, permanent exchanges in the Government, as a result in the National Assembly and in the working bodies of the National Assembly and so on. That's all we do. And with Janez Janša and those electoral laws that are at the next meeting of the National Assembly. There are seven of them again and all of them are proposed by the Moorish Coalition. No points of content, nothing about unloading the economy or anything else. Tell your Member and the other members of your delegation to grab a job, a bull by the horns, and begin to change with the work of your Government and your coalitions in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u96	Thank you. The word is "Iva Dimic." Let's get Ljubo Žnidar ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats every time we touch the judiciary or the prosecution or whatever, we stress that in this country we have forgotten the subjective and objective responsibility of leading people. In this case, we are today discussing subjective and objective responsibility in the position of the first person of the State Prosecutor's Office. Much has been said today that we must respect the rule of law. I do not know why it is again to hear that this legal order applies only to ordinary citizens, but it does not apply to the leaders of the functions, even though irregularities have been identified by the Administrative Court, the KPK and, of course, the inspection. The fact is that we may not all be aware of what it means to be in the highest positions in this country. This also means that we are touching. However, following the current course of action, all citizens are informed that the highest appointments in national functions are untouchable and are not responsible for anything at all. This is not an encouraging message for citizens. If I just get back to yesterday's decision, there's been a lot of implementation by my colleagues today. I must say that there has also been some disappointment when the biggest parliamentary party has not reached a conclusion that the Administrative Court, the KPK and the inspection have found irregularities in this regard. This decision was not adopted or confirmed by the committee yesterday. Then what should I think as a citizen? That you don't acknowledge the three findings of state institutions. I'm going to touch another area myself, because there's been a lot of talk about subjective and objective responsibility here. Christian Democrats often point out that the role of the Attorney-General's Office in determining the policy of prosecution is crucial. Here I also have in mind the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin and the Persecution of this Crime. When I listened to my colleague discussing the witch hunt, I said how some people imagined it differently. I've heard that if the law on the prosecution of illegally acquired property were to be pursued as it should be, and as we have written the law, it would be for some witch hunts, but that's not the case. I hear citizens too often when they ask why this is not being done. And then here in the report, which we all have received, says: "The activity of the prosecution in the area of the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin, bearing in mind that by the end of the year of reporting, it has only been two and a half years since the entry into force of the law, it can be regarded as successful." As I have already said in my position, eight cases were processed in one year and we have nine prosecutors on this site. I don't know now, my personal conviction is that one prosecutor should try eight of them, not nine prosecutors. In short, he says there will be no witch hunt here. I don't know if it's right in this country, but I would like to point out that it was already in 2011, if we didn't know how to do things, how to do things, how to do it, it was clearly stated how this prosecution of crime in neighbouring countries had been handled. "Italia: I take it first, only then the trial." In Italy there is a confiscation of property, only then of a trial to prove whether the confiscation was justified. Italy is considered to be the most effective fight against this form of crime so far. "The first law on the confiscation of property to mafia organisations and arrested criminals was passed in Italy in 1983." 1983, and we've had this for two and a half years, but we still don't know how to get this thing into life, which, of course, is also the job of the Attorney General's Office, because he sets matters straight for his subordinates. In short, 100 million were seized. "Germany: effective against economic crime. The freezing and confiscation of assets in Germany are increasingly effective and often used in the fight against economic crime. Over the last period, the seized property has reached the value of several hundred million euros a year." Germany has done it as it should. Serbia. "They took away 100 million euro of assets. The law entered into force in Serbia on 1 March 2009. During the first year of implementation of the law, they have been permanently or temporarily confiscated for around 100 million euro of assets." Nothing happens to us. Persecution goes too slow, people or criminals have time to cover things up, and no one gets hurt. I stress once again the subjective and objective responsibility of the first person of the State Prosecutor's Office in the country. On the other hand, I would like to say that today I also had the opportunity to meet the Voice of Women. I think there are many of them or some of them have already been accepted by the Members. What are they warning you about? They point to the correctness of appointment to the highest public functions, including in court. To the highest judicial functions within the European Union, where there is no need for candidates to prove impunity or the fact that they are not in criminal proceedings. For the highest judicial functions within the European Union, it is not necessary to prove that they were unpunished or not in criminal proceedings. What every cleaning lady must prove in Slovenia if she is to be employed in public administration. He must submit a document stating that he is not in criminal proceedings. That's what we were warned about. We have also been warned or said that the largest coalition party or the largest parliamentary party has accepted them, but it does not know whether or not this is a matter of deliberation. Also in regulating and preventing domestic violence. I just said, Mrs. Murgel, you don't have to gesture. I'm sure you were there, too. And what did you tell these ladies and Mrs. Piper? To contact the media. I am talking in general about the prosecution of crime, of course, and at the same time, what is related, about non-action in this case. I just wanted to say that we're all being misled or you're being misdirected - sometimes I'll give myself up because I have a clear conscience about this - but to say that we're being misled has clearly demonstrated your behavior on the committee yesterday when all the institutions found out about the irregularity, and you said, "We won't support it. And you didn't support the conclusion that spoke this way. It seems to me that this misdirection in our country is too much and that it would be time for us to act consciously, but of course we must also be aware of those who are in the highest positions, and we Members must be aware that once a limit is crossed, we must also leave there, even if someone stands by you, that you have a clear conscience in front of you. And this is what we expected in New Slovenia from Mr Fischer. You're saying it's pressure on the State Prosecutor's Council. Pressure or no pressure, the facts are revealed, they speak clearly, and I sincerely hope that the Council of State will respond accordingly. So much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u98	Gradually, Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u99	Thank you so much for saying that. Here we have a debate on documents at this point in the agenda and in communication between those who refer to documents and those who do not want to see them, the Government does not participate. The Secretary of State is here and is practically not involved in this discussion. It is not even included in that part, which has also been repeatedly mentioned in this National Assembly, concerning the fact that Attorney General Fischer stated that the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption is the Commission for the Disqualification of Individuals. If this statement by Mr Fischer endures and apparently endures, because none of the representatives of the authorities objects to it, the current Minister of Justice, Mr Klemenčič, as the current State Secretary to the Minister of Justice, Mr Stare, was the author of that report on the Attorney-General, which reads corruption. If Mr Fisher does not resign, then they must immediately resign these two officials because they simply do not engage and are not disputed by this statement of the Attorney General. I also understand now that, despite the fact that the meeting was convened more than a week earlier, today there is no Minister of Justice at this point of the agenda. Mr President of the National Assembly, I think it is the prime task of ministers to sit at points relating to their work and their conduct, not other tasks and other obligations. It's a primary assignment. I think it is inappropriate for State secretaries and other officials to go to the Council of State instead of ministers to attend the substantive items of the agenda, but the Minister is not, and none of those who come to the Council of State to discuss agenda items, That's unworthy. I suggest that you call on the Government again to send a competent person to the National Assembly who can speak or discuss and explain at a particular point in the agenda. The last time we saw a minister come here to watch us vote on a bill proposed by the National Assembly. Today, when we are discussing the content point, he sends someone who has hardly spoken, except at the beginning when he has disputed with one debate by the proposer. Mr President, I propose that you turn to the Government's institution again and ask them to participate properly in the work of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u100	Thanks for the suggestion. Mr Darko Stare, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u101	Thank you, Mr. President. Member of the Commission, in view of the expected statement on the allegations and the inappropriate terms and designations of the Commission for the prevention of corruption as a national authority of this common country, I have given my opinion and the reasons why I do not make a statement on these matters. The fact that I am here today, but not Minister Klemenčič, is conditional on a reason which is in fact also in line with the Government's opinion. There is today a meeting of the State Prosecutor's Council, at which the Minister is invited and will attend. In view of the Government's view that, given the current regime governing the relationship and the powers of the authorities in relation to what is being discussed here today, it is very clear to the Government that it is therefore inappropriate to discuss the content under the exclusive competence of the State Prosecutor's Council until this decision is taken, it is entirely normal, in my opinion and understanding, that this conduct or absence is also consistent with this opinion. So it's about consistency of words, opinions and actions. As regards the inclusion in the debate, I have something else to add, because I think we are not talking about the same thing. I am here as State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, i.e. the State Administration Authority, but not as a representative of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption as an independent state body. It seems totally inappropriate to expect me to be here now as an advocate of the Commission for the prevention of corruption. That would be, in fact, unfair and beyond my powers. However, as far as disqualifications are concerned, I have already said, and I do not intend to repeat myself that the unworthy and unseemly labelling of the State authorities in this country, especially if they are unfounded and unjustifiable, does not, in my opinion, require any additional comments. I told you before that the very words and expressions that people who so disqualify their own country's authorities use, say more about these people themselves and do not need to comment further. I understand these statements, especially taking into account the situation in which an individual is confronted by an authority, but I absolutely do not accept them and do not feel appropriate to comment on them as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u102	Mr. Ljubo Žnidar has the floor. Get ready for Mr. Jože Tank and the mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u103	Dear President, Honourable Secretary of State, Fellow Members and Fellow Members! I am not a legal expert in the field of justice myself, but as a technical type I can also comment on this area in the light of the facts and results. On the basis of this, this is the true facts, actions and results, it is my general opinion that we have an inefficient judiciary in Slovenia and that we have, in view of such inefficiency and the fact that corruption is suspected, including an unfair trial. With such facts, if I only numerically express how many complaints we have in Slovenia, how many persons we have in Slovenia who have not one, two, three, but five, eight, ten and six years again, three new complaints, but then continue with any judicial epilogue. It is said that in the interim step, this is the prosecution's, things are still going on. In short, it's not effective. I would say that, however, it is extremely worrying that this applies only to the privileged. Count with some how many complaints they have, new and new, but there's nothing from the first. Nothing even happens there. She's waiting in the drawer to grow old, that's so direct. Look, when corruption starts happening in court and the discreditation of precisely defined ones, and on the other hand, the privileged from this area are created, then that's true, really worrying. It is true that in Slovenia a number of cases received the final epilogue. Something, relatively little. It seems extremely strange to me that complaints were also made because financial transactions were taking place because the largest financial places in the Republic of Slovenia were taking place, and there was no legal epilogue in this area. Like it's taboo darkness. But in this particular area, the biggest irregularities have occurred, and there are actually no such judicial epilogues. Secondly, where it is stated that there is a lot of corruption in the judiciary and as a result of it there is also an unfair trial, then we really need to ask ourselves where we are and what kind of country we live in. Could someone have listened, I think it was a few days ago, a report from Libya? We know what the situation is in Libya, in fact the government of civil war, but the report has made it very clear what the work of the judiciary is like and what cases are going on, and I must tell you that I have seen very much equality with what is happening in Slovenia. Very many cases could be compared to our country. But what are the foundations of both countries? On such different grounds, we are so alike in court. It's like a technique to me, absolutely not working together. In particular, in this view, there is something very wrong with the judiciary in Slovenia so that we can compare ourselves with such a country and a judiciary like Libya. I'm absolutely not good at this. Then I ask myself why we had the Commission to prevent corruption. Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. I wonder how many corruption cases the Commission has prevented in order to prevent corruption. How many cases? Somebody answer me. Or how many cases are there where the Commission has given such professional grounds that there has been some final judicial epilogue? There was one case, one case. When this case has been completed by the Commission, we now hear from the Attorney General that we no longer need a commission and that it needs to be abolished. Really, if we look at the results of her work, then I don't think we really need it. If I am even more precise, because it is always necessary not to speak so generally that we are concrete. The Commission is very specific: the Attorney-General, Mr Zvonko Fischer, as well as then Minister Aleš Zalar, have violated their duties. Does this Commission's finding to prevent corruption now have any weight or no weight? If he has it, then it is not our place to discuss it here today, then the Minister should both discharge all functions and condemn them to the corrupt acts cited by the Commission. These are facts, and in fact, we should respect the bodies we set up, not that these organs are ineffective with their work, I would say. Ineffective. There is indeed something wrong with our judiciary, and I cannot agree in any way that, given the triple evidence of corruption, both the Commission's evidence to prevent corruption and the inspection services, corrupt acts have been committed in the judiciary, both the Minister and the Government will put their heads in the sand because the matter will be settled in a little while. In short, the irregularities are enormous. I suggest you start working and bring these irregularities to an end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u104	Mr. Jože Tanko has the word to prepare himself for the mag. Matthew Tonin and Mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u105	Thank you so much for saying that. A number of documents and evidence prepared by our institutions of the rule of law have been submitted for this item on the agenda. It is the decision of the Administrative Court, which is cited and attached to the material, which is the Commission's finding to prevent corruption, it is an administrative inspection, it is a finding of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Those people who say we're talking about something, they don't hold on to it. I think that so many documents have been submitted for a few points of the agenda that are somehow final at this point. And there's no action and nothing happens. That the issue in the coalition is a major one also shows that those who engage in professional corruption in this national assembly do not discuss it. Mr Dobovšek did not sign up for the debate, neither did Mr Brglez, President of the National Assembly, Mr Mitja Horvat, an administrative lawyer, nor did he. It is clear that the embarrassment of the coalition Members in addressing this point is extremely great. What happened with the amendment of the Prosecutor's Law in the mandate of the Pahor's Government, when the Secretary of State at the time made a description, created a new job and was then employed by him, is, by definition, as Mr Stare certainly knows, also, all signs of systemic corruption. Look at the definition written by the KPK, what systemic corruption is. Read this and you will find that these actions are exactly the same as described in the 2010 KPK report on page 3 or 4, and you will find that this is the case. So, we're talking about the evidence that's being submitted, and however we reverse it, the National Assembly should have a political view of it. The key problem with this country is that these actions, which are taking place in the prosecution, at the top of the prosecution and at the top of the judiciary, are not addressed by political representatives. Quietly is the President of the Republic, quietly is the President of the Government, the Minister has fled and has withdrawn, and the National Assembly does not want to take any position on this. This is a key issue of this country. Until this matter is settled, you can only dream of a legal and just state until then. This is true for everyone, and I think it's a great shame because it's a missed opportunity.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u106	The word has magic. Matthew Tonin, prepare the mags. Bojana Muršič and a representative of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u107	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Democracy is a pretty thing. It has a legislative, executive and judicial branch of power. Of these three authorities, the legislative and executive branches of power are the two branches farthest under scrutiny. As far as these two branches of government are concerned, we can practically all look at the visit, we need to report on all things, we can be monitored daily, we need to make a statement on the matter, and, crucially, every four years, sometimes even before, we go to the polls. In fact, the judicial branch of power lives here in a balloon, in some kind of watt. When someone gets a mandate, this term is permanent. And anyone who says anything critical about the judiciary is already complaining that it is an unacceptable intervention in an independent judiciary. I just can't agree with that. If, without major problems, the errors of all the other two branches of government can be commented on, and rightly so, then I see no reason why we should not comment and also talk about the mistakes of the judicial branch of power that exist and are very large. The judiciary, however you look, is sometimes much more or even more crucial to the functioning of a country than the executive and legislative branch of power. The judiciary is the one who takes care of the rules of the games, and if this is a distasteful court, then a game can't even play properly and honestly. If we bring this to, for example, a football game where you have a corrupt and depraved judge, then this game sucks, invisible, even though you can have excellent professionals and good players on the field. It is also in the case of the State. You can have a fantastic executive or legislative branch of power if the judicial branch does not do its work, then any work is in vain. Then the economy doesn't work, the political system doesn't work, nothing works. We have a concrete case when we've captured the high representatives of the judiciary, I'll say again, with my hand in marmalade, and now they're closing their eyes, because it's okay, nothing will happen, and the coalition will even defend this action. I'm sure because of the normalization of the situation in court, these people should leave. Pika.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u108	The word has magic. Bojana Muršič, a representative of the Government and a proposer should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u109	Thank you very much, President, for your word. I'm going to be very brief because I actually have very little time. To Dr. Vinko Gorenak, who initially mentioned that they were writing and reading the positions that my professional colleagues were preparing for me, I would only say that I strongly oppose them. This is the third time you've actually discredited me, because I've written reports and opinions in late night hours, and I don't allow it anymore. I would say, however, only why this act was not actually adopted. The opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service was quite clear that it does not have the appropriate form, as it corresponds to the form of a recommendation after the substantive part. Furthermore, I would simply mention that the applicant was informed that the material could be prepared or examined from the point of view of the attached letter and corrected in the proposed sense – this was transmitted by the President – and therefore the amendments were not supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u110	Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u111	No, Mrs. Mursich. First of all, I didn't say you were written by professional associates. I didn't say that today. Take another look at the magnetogram. Second. Look at the reality of yesterday's session. We have made an amendment to rename the matter as a recommendation, as requested by the Legal and Legislative Service. We put two amendments on this subject, and you both refused. Both. Do you understand? You both said no. Then how come he doesn't have the right shape? We followed the Legal and Legal Service, and you turned it down. We have also followed the call of the President of the National Assembly not to mention the part with Mr Aleš Zalar in the matter, and we have prepared an amendment. The coalition refused to do so. This means that we do not want to respect the President of the National Assembly and his call because his call was based on what he did, legal and the coalition rejected it. Don't hold it. However, I think that I am already on the turn of the final debater or proposer. I'd like to end by substantiating what I've shown before. As of today, it's your responsibility. We have a letter from the U.S. Attorney's office. I'll give it to you, and if necessary, I can make a frame for you, but you can put it there. Why? That's what I want to justify right now. Whatever your excuse is that they have neither the Government nor the Parliament nor anyone else's powers, that it is only the State Prosecutor's Council who can do so, who can propose its resolution, that I do not buy it. You can sell this to me, you can sell this to us, but it's not a commodity. There's nothing you can get for it. I don't buy it. Why? First of all, because they exist and you have double standards for it. Your President will first announce the KPC report on 8 January 2013 as a report by a credible state authority, which must not be criticised, which is valid and must only be respected. Or did he say anything else? The government of Janez Janša should resign, he said. A year and a half or two later this report, the author of which is Mr Stare, who is with us, falls. Why hasn't your president done the same thing now, in this same situation? Now he's the Prime Minister, now his word has a much, much greater weight. Why didn't he do the same? Why he didn't say that the decisions of the KPK should be respected, because this is an independent institution. The same sentence could be repeated as in 2013, the same sentence. He's not here. What's more, the D.A. said it was an institution for discreditation and it was all quiet. The author of the report says he will not comment, the President of the KPK, the current minister will not comment on this, but the President of the Government will not comment on this subject at all. So tell me why, on 8 January 2013, the first KPK report on the property situation of the presidents of the parties, which is no longer available, announced and had to be respected and why today is silent. Why doesn't he say a clear word? Clear word, we just need his clear word, we don't need anything else. But he's quiet, he doesn't answer anymore. That's another thing. You know exactly that if you can't get Mr. Fisher out of where he is, you'll have him there. Just keep that inscription up there, then it's your prosecutor, the coalition prosecutor, yours. Of course you can change the law. Absolutely! Do you know how many times we've changed laws in the National Assembly? Go ahead. Even an ad person, as we call it. So do I. Why not in this case? Change the law, make it what it was in 2011, Mr Klemenčič gets scissors in his hands, writes a proposal and you solve it. This can be accepted within one week. And today we are talking about the fact that this gentleman is still sitting there. Day 52. Just for the record, maybe another sentence. Someone – I think Mrs Muršič – said this morning: We must take responsibility for our decisions. All right, congratulations, great, I'm in. In this National Assembly, the Coalition or the National Assembly adopted a decision on the withdrawal of Mr Janša's mandate. The president, you, has anyone apologized? At least apologize, at least do it. Why don't you do it? Why do you talk about how to take responsibility, but when you have to say sorry or sorry or don't know how, you're not able to say that anymore. That is why today, as I said – I will hand this over to Mrs Murgel because there is no leader of the parliamentary group – responsibility for the state of the prosecution, that Slovenia, as the only country in the world at the top of the prosecutor, has a person acting corruptly, yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u112	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure. If you would also like to discuss the proposal's representative, Dr Vinko Gorenak, and the representative of the Government, please apply with a raise of hands. This is where the application was. I'm asking you to sign up. I'm opening the list for everyone else. Every debater has five minutes. The word is Mrs. Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u113	Thank you so much for saying that. I must agree with my colleague Scobernet, who said that the witch hunt was going on without evidence, and one such witch hunt had happened. It was Patricia's trial. But he said that today we are hunting witches without any evidence, and given that the new Member is probably not able to read, examine, or any other material. For he can read a number of evidence in the material that Mr. Fisher broke the law, acted corruptly, namely, the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia is 11. 12. issue a judgment stating that it was a violation of the law and indicating its arbitrary action in the exercise of power. The Commission also noted in order to prevent corruption that Attorney General Zvonko Fischer acted contrary to the law and so on. This was also judged by the Ministry of Public Administration and the Ministry of Justice. I think Vinko Gorenak has read all this evidence to you three times to understand that it's not a witch hunt, but that we're talking about evidence here. By the time you took your mandate, you referred to a judgment in which there was no evidence. Obviously, then, you only support those judgments or those recommendations or conclusions of the courts based solely on indications. Those judgments or decisions, which are based on evidence, are a witch hunt for you. There are quite a few Members there, on the other hand, who have talked today about how we attack the prosecution, justice and so on, they are missing. Probably because it was Friday and they were in a hurry to go home because, as we have heard from Mr Škobernet, it is pointless to sit at such a time and on such a topic in the National Assembly; to convene meetings on economic issues, social issues and to ask about poverty in the country. I hope that Mr Škoberne, who is a member of the Social Democrats, is asking what Svetlik's law has done in the years since 2012. They were the ones who proposed this law, and this law is being enforced today. In view of the fact that he was also an adviser to the Minister of Education, I expect that the conclusions of the meeting in this area will now be one after the other. He probably has a lot to deal with. I also essentially call for them to prepare social and labour market issues as well, to prepare substantive, thematic meetings, including extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly, if they deem it necessary, and to propose laws that will increase economic growth, reduce unemployment and increase employment. I would say that all that's on the table today, and all that evidence you've gotten in the material itself, is evidence that excuses today's session. Nor would that be the case if Mr Fischer's reaction and a gentleman, whom we should not appoint, were completely different and would therefore have resigned two already. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u114	Dr. Jasna Murgel has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u115	Thank you again very much for your word. Once again, we do not have any jurisdiction at this time to decide on what the State Prosecutor's Council will decide, which at this time is the only one responsible for deciding whether there are grounds for the discharge of the Attorney General. This is it, and that is why we have also voted against the proposed decisions. We must not interfere with the competence of this body. If we do this, we keep talking about evidence, we find facts, and I don't know what, we can't do it here because it's a concrete case and we're interfering with the authority of another body. But no, when I say it, then a respected colleague says I'm infected, that I don't know what, because there's no argument. So that's what's important right now. We must not suggest to the State Prosecutor's Council that we decide to give opinions on this. You can talk and debate, but the State Prosecutor's Council is the only one responsible for this, and we will wait for the State Prosecutor's Council to decide. He will now decide, he has jurisdiction, so the State Prosecutor's Office Act has been passed, and we have given him this authority in Parliament. Parliament gave it to him, who was in the composition at the time, and it doesn't matter, this law is in force, we have it, and this body will decide on it. This is the legal system we have, and I call for us to respect it and then, depending on our findings, to fulfil our duty and act in accordance with the legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u116	The word has magic. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u117	Thank you, President. Today, standards or new principles of the moral and ethical government are written. All day long, I've been kind of gagging online, but if I did look at a statement by two responsible people, or perhaps the most competent ones to label or mark this offence by the Attorney General to remain in this place, I didn't track Klemenčič and Dr Cerar. Unbelievable. By listening to a debate all day about how we are not responsible here. The judge in previous life, Mrs Murgel, has just talked about the fact that we have no decision-making powers. Mrs. Murgel, we didn't decide anything today. The proposals for decisions proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party also decided only whether to familiarise ourselves with the decision of the KPK, the decision of the Administrative Court and inspection. And we're back on that story when the government coalition consciously goes against not knowing. Desire to not know. He does not want to be familiar with the KPK report, he does not want to be familiar with the decision of the Administrative Court and not with the findings of the inspection of the Ministry of Public Administration. We had to go back to that double. In view of the fact that the two most responsible have not made a statement today, we can make the equation that the government of Mira Cerar is the government of double standards. In some ways, I would agree that the President of the Government is not responding, because today he is up in Riga at the summit of the Eastern Partnership if he did not read two responses from Mr Cerar, who comments on the event in Slovenia. Today, for example, Cerar, on the initiative of the Radical Left or the United Left and the Social Democrats to condemn a Fascist meeting, reacted harshly to this meeting and said that it was a totally unacceptable, unacceptable demonstration. All right, let's convict, I agree. But where are the powers of Mr. Cerar to do so? Come in. Today, doctors are warned that "if they are too slow or fake housing solidarity, which sometimes happens in Slovenian professional groups, this will harm them as well as, of course, all of us." I fully agree with this statement, but let us put it in the field of lawyers and the judicial system. If they are too slow or falsely solidarityd, which sometimes happens — but today we are witnessing that this is happening in the judiciary, and that this is encouraged or aided by the ruling coalition — it will harm them too, the reputation of the judiciary is falling down, as a result to all of us who do not have a legal state. So, for doctors, these are the criteria, and for the justice system, these are the criteria. Once again, in your coalition contract, you wrote, "No tolerance for corruption in justice." Today you have this possibility to at least support this sentence with your statements. If you continue to play the role of organ silence today and do not respond, then the government of Mir Cerar will actually have the same double criteria, and the corrupt prosecutor is, according to the example of the government of Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u118	The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u119	Thanks again for saying that. It was interesting to hear the words that the coalition stressed the importance of the independence of the judiciary to the lengths and even though this judiciary must only decide and define itself to the story we are talking about, this is the appointment of Mr Škrlec, but I want good morning for all, because the judiciary has long been defined. Today, we are very much talking about the PKK and their opinion, which speaks about the corrupt behaviour of those involved, because they have allowed some material advantage to someone by their unlawful conduct, namely the occupation of the job in the wrong way, but what is legally more essential than that is the judgement of the Administrative Court, which has already decided on this matter. This judgment is legally binding and, as far as we can all understand from the materials and debates, no legal remedy is going on against it now. This judgment has not been delivered since yesterday, this judgment has been a year or more old. The problem is that an independent court, as you pointed out, found here in a legal judgment that it was a manifest violation of the law. If this appointment had been made consciously, it would have been called unlawful in criminal law. Since there are only two conditions, as the court has found to be lawful, namely that a public competition must be held and then the relevant decision of the State Prosecutor's Council should be followed on the basis of this competition. There wasn't one or the other. What, therefore, did the court which, by the way, gave absolute justice to the government of Janez Janša, who had identified such a designation as illegal and abolished it? It stated that this appointment was the post of Director General of the State Attorney's Office, which was proposed by Dr. Zvonko Fischer, is said to be the current Attorney General, 'voluntary in the exercise of power'. This was found by the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia in a legal judgment. Why am I stressing this so much? Because not only does a lot of people don't like it here, but we're going to go to that game "I don't hear good," but obviously a lot of people outside this room don't like it. When I followed the reporting a little bit, there were several media outlets that this was the claim of one of the Members, in one case I was appointed, but this is not my claim, this is the statement of the Administrative Court. I'm just quoting what it says in there. Above all, those who swear to the independence of the judiciary should have a special idea, and this is the legal basis for action. To say that we have no right to discuss this because, by chance, the State Prosecutor’s Council is taking place today, is a little funny or very, if we are honest. Firstly, it is two distinct bodies, and secondly, if anyone has not noticed, Parliament is the highest body of legislation of the branch of power, the highest institution of the legislative branch of power and has the right, not only to exercise the right under the Constitution, but also to point out all the irregularities it sees in a particular area, and then it is only a different category of what it can do. He can adopt a law if it comes to such a matter, he can adopt a decree, he can change the Constitution, or, if it comes to something else, he has a point of view. It was a matter of adopting views, a clear signal of what we believe is right in Parliament and what we believe should be done on the basis of the findings of another state body. And you stopped that. That's why I used to say it was an ostrich coalition. And once again, you imagine a herd of ostracists holding their heads in the sand, which the matter then prays to the eyes of the observers. Imagine what kind of signal you're giving to the people who're watching us right now. We should all reflect on this and, once you are full of mouths swearing to the rule of law, to respect ethics, to responsibility, and on this basis you have been given a mandate, to be consistent in this, not as my colleague said before, that you have written in the program that you will absolutely enforce it. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u120	Mr Primož Hainz has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Of course, I think there's not enough personal responsibility for us. This I think is what Mrs Ludmila Novak was talking about, of course. It was kind of close to me here. This is a kind of moral theme in the political field and also in the professional field, if we go for the last example since yesterday. But what Mrs Novak let go is a time dimension. This morale is not valid at this point, but it's true a few years ago, not to say a decade. In fact, in our space, no one ever gives up, he always says, "What I've done, that's not true, I have to defend myself politically because it's a political attack, there's nothing wrong with me." It's the laymot of everyone who's ever experienced anything in our space, except for rare exceptions. I think the Deputy Prime Minister stepped down immediately and this was a serious exception. I also think that calls are from outside but there is some kind of political pressure or some kind of violence that is not close to me, so, of course, I think it's the morals of those in positions of responsibility to think about these things or to look a little bit at themselves. But since some people keep sending us to Germany, but it wasn't today, but I'm talking back about how this is all different, now I'm going to have to tell you a German case because it's screaming, at least for my ideas, in terms of my way of thinking. On 17 February 2012, German President Christian Wolff resigned for alleged crimes committed as Prime Minister of Lower Saxony for a loan or for the prevention of publication in the newspaper. On 17 February 2014, two years later, Christian Wulff was acquitted by the Regional Court of Hannover. I think it's an example of yelling that Christian Wulf simply estimated that it's obviously hard to work if you're under some kind of charge and you've given up. I thought it was a school example of cultural, right and moral action. So I'm not just talking about today, but I'm talking about us a little bit back. Of course, some of you said that we are now changing laws if I go back to the electoral legislation that you mentioned that we are changing legislation because of one name. You have already mentioned two names yourself, and I will not mention them, because the fact that the electoral law, as proposed, is too strict. Every pusher has worse criteria than a political official, but I will not discuss it now, because we will talk about it at the opportunity, i.e. under the next legislation. In short, I think that moral and professional issues are also a whole range of objective responsibilities that concrete actors themselves need to recognize and see and also decide on the future on this basis. Here, I agree, we'd like more efficiency in the courts, but from the outside, it's very difficult for me to be qualified to say they don't work like that. However, as far as the KPK Commission is concerned, I must say that I, of course, think that this is some moral force, although it is a toothless tiger, as they say, but I think that this commission has done some things quite well and points out problems, because in the end it is not the last instance in this sense. I think it's useful for her work, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u122	Mr. Jean Mahnič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u123	Thank you for your word, President. Colleagues, colleagues! This was not exactly right now when Mr Hainz mentioned Germany. As far as electoral law is concerned, Germany has forbidden in its electoral legislation that former Stasi members run for Members and Members of the elections. I now ask Mr Hainz whether he would support an electoral amendment to the legislation that would prohibit the running of former members of the SDV and why he would not support it. I'll give it to the coalition in part, because I got a message earlier that this meeting is really kind of a waste of time today. This was what the SDS member told me because he said that when he listened to the Slovenian Democratic Party and its arguments and listened to the coalition and its arguments, it was about as if he were watching a football match between Barcelona and some village football team. Perhaps the Slovenian Democratic Party has also made a mistake by drawing up these conclusions and drawing these conclusions differently. Thus, perhaps the first decision, which states that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia took note of the decision of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia to find that the Attorney General of State Dr. Zvonko Fischer broke the law and acted "voluntarily in the exercise of power", should be amended as follows: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia will examine and carry out a thorough analysis if this decision of the Administrative Court is true or if it has indeed violated the law and acted voluntarily in the exercise of authority. I'm sure it would be accepted. Mr Gorenak mentioned earlier, and I also asked a written question because Mr Fisher boasted that he really exceeded all his expectations. We know that, because of the need to reduce the indignation of the Patria case, and when John Janša was found innocent, they had to produce something quickly one three days earlier, those famous 500 000 euros of illegal property. Apparently this is the case, so our Fisher imagines that if someone so far has earned 100,000 euros and bought a house for 200 000 euros on credit, then 100,000 euros in illegal assets. Because I didn't think of any other case besides the Janez Janša case, which we know how it's going to end, why it came about, and why it fell anyway, because it wasn't the right date, so I asked the Justice Department what it was like. We've had this law since May 2012. How many times have they taken the property? You will not believe it, the prosecution, led by Zvonk Fischer, ordered 22 financial investigations in these three years and within three years, in accordance with the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin, carried out exactly one withdrawal of EUR 62 000. Bravo. Really. That's a surplus. We all know how to steal, we all know what was going on, and we have seized 62 000 euros because Mr Fisher has clearly found out that he will take his money, and that is not the case, because then he would really fly away because he would take his money and return it back to the state budget, not that he found it so. Likewise, we have double standards. Someone who wrote the KPC report or adopted, violated a number of laws and violated the Constitution today by the Minister of Justice; someone who wrote this report and led this financial investigation is his State Secretary; someone who violated human rights, who is corrupt, cheats and does not accept responsibility for his actions is the Attorney General; someone who talks about how the leader of the opposition should "fuck" is the President of the Supreme Court. But this, dear colleagues and colleagues, is the Republic of Slovenia. And you look at all of this on the one hand and then on the other hand, you open a coalition contract and you read "nothing tolerance for corruption." I suggest you re-examine thoroughly and make a thorough analysis of your coalition contract.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u124	Mr Darko Stare, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u125	Thank you, Mr. President. In view of the fact that we are not proposing this material, I will simply avoid any confusion or correct some information and information to the public, because unfortunately the public cannot have the material we have here to participate in this debate. For it is repeatedly stated that they are not true. I have previously corrected Mr Gorenak with regard to references to laws and procedures. It is now stated once again that the President of the Government and the Minister of Justice have not stated whether national authorities' decisions should be respected or not, in particular, that the Commission should be set up to prevent corruption. The opinion of the Government explicitly states - at the meeting at which this opinion was adopted, both the President of the Government and the Minister of Justice, Mr Klemenčič, were involved - that the decisions which are the subject of today's debate and essentially part of the material proposed by the Group of Members and Members with Mr Tanko at the head of the debate should be respected. Therefore, it is explicitly expressed the position and opinion of both of them, for which you claim for the second time in the last hour and a half that they have not expressed their expectations of respect for the applicable legislative or final decisions of the State authorities. Today's debate is always on the backdrop, as if the Government denies that these are violations of the law that have been identified by the four different authorities within their jurisdiction. This assumption is wrong because it's not true. The Government found and also expressed in its opinion that there is no doubt that there is a violation of the law in the procedure for appointing a gentleman to this post, but that the question which is the subject of the proceedings before the State Prosecutor's Council is whether this violation of the law is sufficient for the discharge of the Attorney General. The basic element of each democratic and legal state is procedure. Respect for procedures and laws is a guarantee that the rule of law works. The rules currently in force in the Republic of Slovenia provide that the only competent authority to decide whether a violation of the law, which is undoubtedly established, is also attached to this by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in its opinion, is a sufficient basis in accordance with the provision laid down in Article 127 of the Public Prosecutor's Act. In its opinion, the Government also stated that when this competent authority decides on this matter, given the constitutional principle of the division of power, the debate on this can in fact mean or create the appearance of a political influence, so it is more appropriate to wait for this decision. This decision is practically before us and there is no reasonable doubt that it would not have been adopted at a reasonable time, and it was also proposed that the decision of the only competent authority in the current legal order of the Republic of Slovenia should wait. It seems important to me to stress this in particular, because it always builds on assumptions that are not true, and of course every further conclusion, which is more rhetorical in nature and I have the impression that it is intended to make more impression, means, of course, wrong conclusions and, of course, a mistake for those who listen to us. Any good and correct decision may be so only if it is made on the correct data and the basis. That is why it bothers me and made me feel obliged to stress this in particular because of the specific information given to the public. This repetition of something that obviously isn't true. This has also been heard in recent debates by Members. This debate would not have taken place if a group of Members and Members under the leadership or at the head of the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank did not submit or propose the adoption of this decision to the National Assembly. Ten. 4. The Commission’s opinion on the prevention of corruption has been published. 14. 4. The Minister of Justice has asked the President of the State Prosecutor's Council to define it in accordance with the rules in force and his competence. At the same time, at the time, the President of the Government expressed his expectation that the State Prosecutor's Council would decide as soon as possible. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u126	Time's up. [[advertising from the hall]] I'm sorry. There's no replica at this point. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, you have so well justified that it would be more appropriate to wait for the State Prosecutor's Council to decide. Why didn't you do so on January 8, 2013? Then you might also say: We have issued a report on the property situation of the presidents of the parties, but be careful, people can complain, things can fall, don't judge people too quickly. No, you said back then that they should step down immediately, take responsibility. You see, this is where I remind you of the double criteria. Perfect double criteria. Mrs Murgel, we do not have a decision on the fate of the Attorney General. I heard you read that request well. Don't talk about deciding the prosecution's fate. We had recommendations on the table where it says "we got acquainted with this and this," only you didn't. "We've come to know this and this," but you obviously didn't, because you didn't accept it. Mr Hainz, when you spoke about electoral legislation on these matters, I do not have any special problems with this, because such provisions are also found in European countries. The Group of Members has not yet dealt with the matter. But you know what the prerequisite is? Righteous and lawful judiciary. Because, otherwise, thirty cases like this can happen tomorrow. Tomorrow they can take everyone who sits here on this end without a fair trial. And then these two don't go together, and it's a big problem. Mr. Stare, you're talking about respecting organ decisions. Then why don't you say anything to Mr. Fisher, who says it's a board of discredits? Look what this man's allowed. And there's something else we're talking about because I'm running out of time. I have just read some press questions, five press questions that have been sent to Mr Fisher, all referring to a five billion-dollar bank hole at home. How old are you after three years of this, how old are you, how old are you? Actually, they've been doing this for three years now. And you know what he did, sir. He said: Turn to the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office. It's over. However, the specialized state prosecutor's office sent the press an online link to the annual report. And you see that arrogance? If the president of the National Assembly did something like that, if a minister did something like that, what would it be? Perfect, perfect arrogance. On the best issues I've ever seen from the press to the Attorney General. That's how he treats everyone. All of them. Otherwise, as I said before, the coalition, with today, at least for me, I will tell you very often, the prosecutor you still have, he will be there on your thanks and will obviously vouch for his existence in this job and thus be your responsibility. Sorry, that's right. You'll be able to accept that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-05-22-SDZ7-Izredna-14.ana.u128	This concludes the general debate on the proposal for a decision. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9. 12. 2009 The National Assembly notes that the procedure for examining the proposal for a decision has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 14th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly.
