ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 9th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Mag. Tanja Zink, Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik by 12 noon, Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker by 12 noon and Mr Tomaž Lisec. It says here, sorry; it's here. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to readings 15, 16, 17, 18. And 19. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Law on wills in the national assembly; a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Businesses; a bill on amendments to the Law on Change and Supplements to the Law on Government of the Republic of Slovenia and proposals for amendments to the Law on the will of the President of the Republic, in the first debate. The draft laws were tabled by a group of 55 Members and Members with a first-signed Mr Janije Möderndorfer; except for the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, which was submitted by a group of 56 Members and Members with the first-signed mag. Lilliano Kozlovich. With regard to these bill proposals, the Group of Members and Members, signed first by Dr Simono Kustec Lipicer, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. At the 30th meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly 8. 6. As regards the debate on these draft laws, it was agreed that the introductory explanations, presentations of the views of the groups of Members and Members' general debate on all proposals for legislation should be carried out jointly. In order to further explain the draft laws, I give the floor first to the representative of the proposed magi. Lilliani Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u2	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we have a fundamental law governing public elections – the Law on Elections in the National Assembly, and it makes sense to apply it to all other elections. I believe that opening this law and amending it is one of the most difficult tasks in the National Assembly, since it is a law that establishes the relationship of political power between political parties and in the National Assembly and the Government. The proposal we have before us has been drawn up by the Members. The Government helped and participated, the State Election Commission and constitutional lawyers participated. By what we propose, and by the changes we have in the Elections Act in the National Assembly, as well as others, do not interfere with the electoral system, we do not change the system; it is only about regulating those things that are necessary. The main focus is on what has not been regulated for 20 years and what the Constitutional Court has already pointed out in 2013, 2014 and again in 2015. It is that we have identified who cannot be a Member, saying who is the one who cannot perform public functions for certain reasons. If we look at what the Constitution says about this. It establishes that this is one of the highest political human rights of the individual and is embedded in the very essence of democracy and ensures the sovereignty of the people. It laid down general conditions and also provided for the possibility of reaching out to it, the possibility for the legislator to determine who is the one who will not be able to perform such a function. He says two things; he says that the legislator determines who cannot be a Member; but he also says that we can arrange for partial insurrection. By establishing this, the Constitution has given us a constitutionally permissible goal. We have a legitimate objective that we can achieve this, because in human rights, especially in the form of electoral rights, we can only reach if we restrict the rights of others or if we have a constitutionally permissible goal. However, our Constitution did not say anything about how to handle it. He doesn't say anything about the reasons for those reasons. Here it is our job to decide for ourselves in view of the social conditions which are, above all, the true Constitution in view of the comparative arrangements that other countries have; and also that such arrangements must be acceptable in modern and democratic society. In this regard, the Constitutional Court also refers to the Code of Good Practice adopted by the Venice Commission, which sets out, in essence, some recommendations on how this should be addressed. [[…]] It says that it can limit the active and passive right to be balanced; above all, it says that it can be a condition of age; it can be a reason for citizenship and, for other reasons, residence; it can be said because of some mental impossibility or conviction. But this must be based on the judgment of the court. When we tackled this issue, a number of dilemmas, concerns, or reflections opened up, for which reasons all could limit the right to vote, but we reached a consensus to limit it from the title if someone is legally convicted of a certain crime. We're united here. However, it is not entirely – and today it is also intended to be a public debate to determine in what way, in what way, in what way and how to determine all the consequences. I believe that in this general debate today we will be able to tell how we are actually going to deal with this. We have a constitutionally permissible goal, but we still have limitations. And these restrictions, as the Constitutional Court has said, must exist a comparative regime in relation to other countries and a principle of proportionality, which is crucial in this whole case. It is also necessary to decide how we will regulate this restriction. The consequences may arise directly on the basis of the law itself and may also arise on the basis of the judgment of the court. Of course, this can be determined in a way that selects a taxive list of offences or decides on the level of the penalty imposed. When we made our decision, we considered that the legal consequences would be based on the law, but of course they must have a basis in a court decision. We have also decided on the amount of the penalty, not on the taxi number of the offences. If we look at a comparative regime that is one of the key, which we need to take into account, we will find that we are one of the few countries that is not yet regulated within the European Union. Over 20 countries, we have information for them that they have this arranged; and, of course, they also have very different. In a number of countries, as will be said below, we will find that they are limiting not only passive rights but also active electoral rights. Most of them have a prison sentence when it comes to the issue of conviction. However, they have very different – some determine the amount of the crime, some decide on the recruitment, some decide on the form of the guilt, in short, an exceptional palette; it is very different. The legal and legal service has highlighted five countries which believe to be key in all of this; it says that Austria, Germany, is the most similar to our legal order; and the arrangements in Italy, France, Great Britain are traditionally very important. Some of these, perhaps for a short time, to sum up our reasoning on this comparability if we look at France first. France has an exceptional set of restrictions on electoral rights not only on grounds of criminality but also on reasons such as electoral offences, violations during the electoral campaign, unannounced property. Of course, in this case they may lose their election rights or the possibility of running for one year. Furthermore, the person who did not report on the costs of the electoral campaign or who exceeded the extreme limit of the costs of the electoral campaign is the person who did not report. Nor can those involved in the negotiations. However, they also have partial insurmountability arranged for individuals who were the holders of the executive branch; that is, they cannot run for a certain time because they have too much influence. Then there is a partial inadmissibility for judges as well. However, as far as crime itself is concerned, criminal offences are listed in taxis and may lose civil, civil and family rights as well as active and passive electoral rights. The same is true in the United Kingdom. There can be pronounced because of any prison sentence, the height is not fixed, even for those detained for more than a year, or for those on the run. These reasons are very strict. But it can also be because of a corrupt act committed in connection with elections or donations. Interestingly, Britain has a limited active and passive electoral right. If we look at Austria and Germany, which the Legislative and Legal Service has told us are the most similar and comparable – Austria has the lowest standard or they have established a premeditated crime and a conviction for at least one year's imprisonment. However, they have both rights — active and passive. Let us see how Germany is regulated, which has many times been exposed by other political options. They may do so in two ways, by virtue of the law on worse crimes. These crimes are not listed here. Of course, a prison sentence may be imposed for at least one year. What is crucial, and what has not been said, when it comes to Germany, is that they can also say it for conditional punishment. This means that the measure is very strict because the conditional punishment is pronounced for the minor offences under our Penal Code. Also, in Germany, the court can state that political crimes have resulted in the deprivation of a person's right to vote, which may last from two to five years. As we see in this comparative arrangement, it is relatively strict. When we made our decision, we thought first of all that we had to set zero tolerance for the functions we loved and also for the functions we called upon, because we set these standards ourselves, so that for every crime for which a prison sentence is imposed, the legal consequences can only arise when a prison sentence is imposed, and for others they cannot, in essence, be punished. Later, when we listened to our colleagues' debate and when we talked to constitutional lawyers, we thought that this standard could be changed and that the standard that has already been established under labour law would be six months' imprisonment; and if we look at this standard, we have essentially an established standard. The Law on Members has already provided for six months of imprisonment, and one Member has already terminated his term of office in 2010. Of course, I will be able to say much more further, because I see that I am running out of time, especially on this principle of proportionality. It is essential that we also determine the duration of this legal effect; the most important is that it cannot apply [[sign for the end of the debate]] . Thank you, and I'll continue in explanation later.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u3	I also give the floor to Mr Jani Möderndorfer, representative of the proposaler, to further explain the draft laws.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u4	Good afternoon. Whenever the National Assembly starts a public debate on electoral legislation, on the Law on Members and, in particular, on officials who hold the highest positions in the country, one always wonders why this is necessary. And then there is usually a lot of controversy, a lot of questions, and a lot of fear that something that we Slovenians and Slovenes are already used to will not change. However, we believe that the package we have on the table today is something that we should have arranged 25 years ago. Why wasn't this issue resolved 25 years ago? The assumption is probably very simple. Because no one thought this would ever be a problem in Slovenia. And that's why we don't usually handle things that aren't a problem, but we always do things where we have vague, unclear notions of how to do things in certain cases. Therefore, not a week ago, and not a month ago, but in the previous term, we tried to resolve these issues. But since we have this mandate at the beginning of last year, let me remind you that we are already seven. 11. 2014 tabled amendments to the Law on Government, the Law on State Council, the Law on Local Self-Government, the Law on Elections of the President of the Republic and the Law on Local Self-Government and the Law on Members. However, for a number of reasons, there was a very broad discussion that led to the need for certain things, for the first time, to be settled also with other legislation referred to by my predecessor, and this is the draft law on elections to the National Assembly, which is the foundation and, in fact, with this law, someone is just becoming an official. And there they begin to regulate certain rights that they continue to acquire their own function. If we go in line, we agreed, together with the coalition parties and the United Left, on a procedure that will thoroughly clarify certain issues in all the proposed laws; except in one case, this is the Law on Local Self-Government, which is not on the agenda today. However, it is not on the agenda for very clear reasons, since we have decided to go with this package on a regular basis. It is reasonable that the law, which has been tabled after a reduced procedure, is to be dealt with together in a package with all the legislation, once we have cleared up and opened all the issues in the basic laws that will solve certain open issues. With the Government Act, we propose to clearly determine who cannot be President of the Government or Minister. Since it is the highest executive functions in the country, including with the highest power, it is somehow assumed that there can be no doubt about what the character who performs this function may be. However, the fact is that in the debate itself there was a lot of open questions about why it is necessary to pay attention to individual issues, especially because we like certain officials, we call certain officials. And this is where this drastic difference occurs, so that we can not simply draw it all together on the common denominator. However, we were able to propose certain solutions with the law itself, how to determine first and also to carry out the procedure so that either functions or functions do not occur, or that the function also ceases if certain events occur during the exercise of the function itself. The next matter, a law that is very important, is, of course, the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, which my predecessor also proposed as first-signed, and has already mentioned some of the main points. It is therefore very important to act on the election of the President of the Republic, where there is the greatest dilemma in view of the fact that it is a function that is also mentioned in the Constitution; and even today, the law also sets out what conditions and under what conditions someone can become president of the country or under what conditions this function can no longer be performed. However, we have settled certain matters with this law in such a way that they are bound and conditioned to serve as a Member of the National Assembly. In addition, let me mention that the novelty is what is governed by the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Members, which follows the amendment of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, which also regulates the limitation of passive electoral rights. What is also important to mention in this function is that it is more than clear that, in such a high function, the representative function representing the State is said to be the President of the Republic of Slovenia, it is also right to decide and determine whether the conditions for the termination of this function at the level of the Constitutional Court have arisen. And with very clear hands, even when this appeal procedure can be appealed and when, in what time, it must be decided. In addition, it is clear that something similar is being dealt with also with by the State Council Act, where it is more than clear that the time limit set is also a clear limit, when and how the state councilman can perform his duties in the State Council. The point is that it is important when a candidate is legally convicted of a crime after his candidacy has been confirmed and elected. This is, of course, what is most crucial and by which it can be decided, when and how the saint will perform his function. This also provides for legal protection within the law, when and in what way an individual candidate who was an official can protect his or her rights if they have been violated and who decides. In the end, it is also a fundamental law, the Law on Members, which, if not someone, then Members and Members must also decide and determine when and what conditions those who can become Members, who that Member should be, what a Member who performs that function should be, or what minimum standards it must meet so that the work can also be carried out. Not only from the point of view of ethics and morality, but also from the point of view of functionality; whether he is even able to perform a particular function physically, is the function of a Member. The subject has already been discussed in the past. More than once, or almost every more important debate, whenever the body of the National Assembly is touched, which is not the only one, however, the only most aggressive organ in the country that is on duty and responsible for everything that happens in this country, whether it is really competent or whether it has made a decision in this case; therefore, it is even more important that this message be returned to it if the nation attaches so much importance to it that it is also important that it has such validity and importance to the Member himself. Even from the point of view of it now as a curse of ethic and morality. If anyone were proud of this today, we could say that today is already a curse, if you even mention it, as if it were no longer necessary and important. What is still important in today's debate is as follows. Today we are holding the first debate on complete legislation. This debate is important in order to face all the important aspects and views of this matter, which we will not only listen to in the debate below, to face further arguments and to decide, and also to adopt certain corrections, if we jointly assess that these are urgently needed in order for legislation to be implemented in practice. Not like today, when we have a law, we have certain standards, but we find that they are unclear, incomprehensible, inconclusive; or even in the end, the Constitutional Court tells us that they are unconstitutional. The fact is that this reference to legislation, if not prescribed, is often misused in our society. And this has also been abused within the existing legislation that we are talking about today. The next question is also important and we will not avoid it today. From this point of view, we will be hearing a lot today about the constitutional provision, which has made it very clear that we are going to say, but now we are changing legislation because of the Constitutional Court. Certainly not because of the last decision, and we will have to make it because of the last decision. Remember that legislation has been in serious debate in this National Assembly for a year. Not the one that is being tabled today, but certainly the topic that we are discussing. What is important, however, is that the Constitutional Court, with its final ruling, did not say at least two things. One thing is for sure that the decision decided by the National Assembly on what the Constitutional Court was explicitly and clearly asked by the proposer of the opinion – for an opinion. This is whether it is right that the National Assembly was informed of this or should vote on it, the Constitutional Court did not say anything. This issue has been avoided because it has only resolved the decision; the decision has been overtaken by the lack of legal protection or by the unconstitutionality of the law itself. Another very clear message we have received from the Constitutional Court is the following: and basically, the fundamental question is why we are amending this legislation today. It did not answer the question whether a politician who is legally convicted and sits in prison can act as a Member or any other function – an important, high position in the country. This question has not been answered, so I am sure that with this package of legislation we have the answer to this question and it is in the palm of our hand. Such an officer, who is legally valid and who sits in prison, cannot perform his duties. Not because he is guilty, but because he is physically unable to perform it anymore; not to speak of all other reasons and views. I am sure that this is clear to all Slovenes and Slovenes; I hope that this will also be clear to the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u5	I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Boris Koprivnikar, Minister of Public Administration, for an introductory presentation.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! The government is at its 12th meeting. 6. 2015 addressed the entire so-called electoral package of laws and adopted positions, which it also forwarded to the National Assembly. The government supports the proposal for laws because it considers that the whole package takes into account the Government's position, which was forwarded to the National Assembly as early as January this year, on the previous amendment package. Thus, due to the comprehensive system regime of the Institute of Involvement in the case of a conviction for an offence relating to a loved official, the basic Law on Elections in the National Assembly has also been introduced into the legislative procedure. The Law on Elections to the National Assembly is a fundamental law that lays down the conditions for the election of a directly elected representative body in the country and is applied in a subsidiary and meaningful manner on matters not regulated by other electoral laws. Therefore, in individual special laws concerning Members and President, legal protection is duly regulated in cases of early termination of the mandate. It is important to understand that the Constitution, in the second paragraph of Article 82, empowers the legislator to impose restrictions on passive electoral rights for members of the National Assembly. We believe that this institution of ineligible or restricted passive electoral rights can also be used to elect the President of the Republic and the members of the Council of State. We believe that the applicant has duly justified the intervention in the limitation of passive electoral rights and has explained it in terms of proportionality and constitutional compliance, which, as the initiator said, is very important. The proposed restriction also follows the objectives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to ensure the integrity of the highest representative body in the country and to establish additional conditions for all public officials. In doing so, let me say that these conditions for public servants have been in practice for a long time. In the case of individual proposals for laws, the Government has put forward some proposals for additions in its views. Let me just draw attention to some of them. With regard to the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, the Government, in addition to the regulation of the Institute of Involvement, particularly welcomes the amendments to the legislation relating to the implementation of the Constitutional Court decisions and the amendments concerning quotas, as regards the 40 % representation of both sexes. However, it proposes some additions related to the legal consequences of the conviction, the election in the event of a conviction in the period from the confirmation of the candidacy to the election and the more appropriate arrangements for the accessibility of voters for persons with disabilities. The government also proposes that, in view of the provisions of the later legislative proposals, special rules - I am talking about the Law on Members, the Law on the State Council - appropriate uniform harmonisation of the provisions on the condition of impunity, so that the standard of impunity is uniformly regulated in all the laws we are talking about. Let me also point out that, with regard to the Government Act, we believe it would be appropriate to set a stricter condition for impunity, since it is not an infringement of passive electoral law, which is a constitutional category. The Government proposes that, as a condition for the election to this function, a person should not be sentenced to unconditional imprisonment or be convicted of a criminal offence against official duty, public authority and public resources. With regard to impunity, the Government believes that the same condition should also be laid down for the termination of the presidency of the Government and ministers. There is also an open question as to how the condition of impunity set for the election of the Prime Minister and ministers will be checked. The draft law does not contain an appropriate provision for the appointment and termination of the functions of the Secretary of State, as it has to be taken into account that the status of State Secretaries is not governed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Act, but by the State Administration Act. At the same time, let me say that a law regulating the position of officials is also being drawn up and is also in the normative programme. Let me only conclude that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports the comprehensive and uniform package arrangements of the Institution Institute in the case of beloved officials and the establishment of stricter conditions for appointed public officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u7	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, on her behalf Dr. Dragan Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u8	President-in-Office, honourable Members and other Members-in-Office! The bills we are considering today all have the same purpose – the establishment of an institution of inadmissibility, the establishment of reasons for early termination of office for those officials for whom there is a lack of legal regulation in force, and the provision of legal protection in the event of termination of the mandate. Current legislation does not impose restrictions on candidates for public, loved or designated functions in cases where an individual is convicted of a crime. On the other hand, the restrictions apply to judicial officers and judges convicted of the act of intent. Nor can the person against whom a legal charge is brought or the main proceedings for an alleged act prosecuted under an official obligation run for trial run for a judge. Furthermore, there is already a restriction on the condition of impunity for any individual wishing to work in a public administration. The constitutional basis for restricting electoral rights is explicitly given only as regards the election of Members. However, it follows from the Constitution's overall attitude that this constitutional power also applies to the elections of other state and local officials. Thus, in addition to the existing conditions, citizenship and 18 years of age, these bills provide for an additional condition, namely impunity when applying for public office, namely national elections for Members, for members of the Council of State and for the President of the Republic. We have also tabled marriage proposals in the same sense for local elections, which is for mayors and municipal councillors. The objective we are pursuing is that electoral legislation at key points is as uniform as possible, as all elected and appointed officials must be treated in a comparable manner. We are aware of the fact that with provisions on the restriction of candidatures, we are limiting human rights, so we have done so with great care in many debates and thorough reflection. In order to elect Members or in the draft amendments to the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, we have therefore stated that an individual who is legally convicted of an offence which is prosecuted under an official obligation cannot run for office. After further discussions and warnings of experts for all other laws which we have subsequently tabled, we have laid down a condition that is more consistent with the principle of proportionality, namely that, I quote, "one year after the suspension, dismissal or limitation in elections cannot be granted by an individual who is legally sentenced to a non-conditional prison sentence of more than six months". From this point of view, this provision of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly with the amendment will also be further discussed. In the proposals tabled, we have also decided to regulate legal protection in the event of an early termination of a mandate or function, as pointed out by the Constitutional Court in several decisions. The latter means that the National Assembly will also remove the recently established legal void in the Law on Members, much earlier than within a certain period of one year. Of the 19 countries of the European Union for which we have obtained information on the arrangements for the conditions for public election, only five do not have the required restrictions to run for public office elections on conviction for criminal service. Although the legal profession has for two decades warned that restrictions on passive electoral rights should be regulated in Slovenia; in practice, until a few years ago such a legal restriction was not necessary. Political culture was at a significantly higher level than it is today. The parties themselves made sure that the most excellent individuals did not run for office in the elections. Because it seems that some have seen such a political culture hang, it is necessary to cut down on legal changes in the manner described. In particular, we note that the amendments are not directed at any specific person, as they will not be applied retroactively, i.e. to those who have been convicted before the adoption of the new legislation; they will have an effect from the date of adoption. We will, of course, support the proposed laws in the SMC, and we propose that you support them all Members and Members of the National Assembly. We believe that no one among Members can oppose the objective of preventing persons who have committed a crime from performing the most responsible functions.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u9	The text is addressed to the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, on behalf of Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u10	Thank you very much. We have before us a package of so-called electoral legislation. My job is to try to present the position of the SDS Group. We are talking about the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, the Law on Members, the Law on the State Council, the Law on Government and the Law on Elections of the President of the Republic. For the introduction, what was the situation in this area from 1990 to 2014. We had nothing in this area, and nothing dramatic happened. There were no restrictions in terms of convictions in candidates. Why? Some other countries also have this situation. It is true that the prevailing situation is, as has been said so far, that there are limitations. However, we also have countries where there is no limit, where it is simply a matter of trusting people, that someone who is legally convicted will not be elected to the National Assembly or will not be elected to another function such as the mayor's function or something like that. However, Slovenia is slightly different. The one who distracted you has received far the most votes among all of us who are sitting here today. So what happened in 2014? What was so dramatic that the Alliance of Alenka Bratusek introduced a package of laws? This is already the second package of laws, the first one we have considered and, as you know, rejected. It happened that John Janša was elected to the National Assembly in addition to Mr Battelli – in all mandates. Moreover, John Janša was then in prison and received 6,000 116 votes. Ladies and gentlemen, farthest from all those who sit here. Farthest away! So people trusted him and not justice. And nothing else. By comparison, Mr Hanžek received a thousand 210 votes. Mr. Jani got 701 votes. And then those who have submitted this package of legislation, which have received 701 votes, throw out the Parliament of those who have received 6 000 116. All six elected Members of the United Left received a total of 5,000 494 votes or 915 on average per one. The person most trusted by the people, John Janša, received 6,000 116 votes. All four elected gentlemen and lady from the Alliance Alenka Bratušek received 3 000 247 votes, on average 811. And these gentlemen made an attempt to remove someone from the National Assembly who just got the most votes. What was the reaction? The Alliance of Alenka Bratušek has introduced all the laws that I have mentioned before. This is also logical, in fact, because it is some kind of self-preservation instinctive reaction. Well, that's kind of a comprehensible thing. The government was against these laws at the time, the law-law service also, the opposition also, the SMC was also against, the laws were rejected. We understand that these laws were ever introduced for the sake of the self-sustainment of the Allied party Alenka Bratušek. The result of this reaction was that the United Left supported this, that package of legislation, which is also completely understandable, what I said earlier – 5 thousand 494 votes received by six Members, compared to the one that was thrown from the National Assembly, which received 6 thousand 116. So everything is understandable, one way or another, John Janša needs to be saved, all the resources are permits, the abuse of institutions is absolutely necessary. This happened last year, including with this legislation. Interestingly, SMC rejected this legislation. But for prestigious reasons, not for any substantive reasons, because you are probably the party that has the largest share in the National Assembly, it is difficult to allow itself to support some law tabled by four Members. But the content desires remained the same, the elimination of John Janša from political life, and this is what is common to all of you, who have also tabled another package of legislation. There are many reasons for this to happen. The package of legislation that had been tabled had a logical continuation in the removal of Janez Janša’s mandate. Mr Cerar spoke before the elections: the rule of law, human rights, equality for all, fairness in politics, the constitution and so on. All of this was forgotten at the time. The law was trampled, human rights were undermined, there was no more talk of equality for all, honesty in politics, the Constitution or human rights, nothing, nothing more applied after the elections. The project withdraws Janez Janša's mandate as a project to continue this legislation, or the predecessor we are considering today has continued. Mr Cerar, from the rhetoric he had before the elections, suddenly changed the rhetoric, "the prisoner cannot be an MP", he roared. Interesting. He's forgotten about all those flossules he said before the elections. However, the SMC is in some strange manner to find an excuse, a legal opinion We know how it is with legal opinions in this country; you get as much legal opinion as you order; and as much money as you give for it will be. [[…]] That is the case, at least with some lawyers who claim to be legal experts. A group of lawyers was appointed: Mr Dino Bauk, Franc Grad, Rajko Pirnat, Cyril Fishičič, Aleš Zalar; probably for money, I don't know whether you paid him or not, but say it again. Who's who? If you look at this composition, it's a clear result in advance, you don't have to think about what they're going to write at all – the result is clear, the mandate can be taken. It's agreed, logical. We have proposed our candidate - Milan Kučana. You said it was a farce. That wasn't a farce. Or was the farce equal to the one you performed?Oh, my God! It was exactly the same farce. The result was therefore known. On the other hand, without money, Dr. Janez Čebulj, former constitutional judge, Dr. Matthew Abelj, constitutional lawyer, Dr. Andraz Teršek, constitutional lawyer, Dr. Saša Zagorc; Dr. Yuri Toplak; Mag. Matevž Krivic, who is said to be more on the left; further, Dr. Tone Jerovšek, former Constitutional Judge; Dr. Lovro Šturm, former Constitutional Judge; Dr. Marko Novak; Domen Gorenšek; ddr. Klemen Jaklič and three Constitutional Judges Jan Zobbe, Ernest Petrič and Mitja Deisinger through their products at the Constitutional Court. But they all said to you: "No, you can't take away your mandate. And you continued to do so — until the Constitutional Court ruled. This was decided: John Janša’s removal is illegal and unconstitutional. All those who voted for it have committed an act called an unconstitutional and illegal act. 57 such members from the SMC, SD, Desus, the United Left and ZaAB, who violated the Constitution which violated the law. On the day of the decision of the Constitutional Court, RTV was among the Members of the SMC, which 36 of you were looking for an interlocutor to me. She didn't find it. That's really interesting. All those heroes you were happy to press the "yes" button, then you're the tail between your legs, and there was nowhere to go. Mrs. Kozlovich was stopped in the hallway somewhere. But there was no interlocutor because you didn't hope. SD silence, Desus silence, respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court, that is clear. For AB and the United Left, however, they criticise the Constitutional Court. This was banned in 2011. There sat the current market mayor, who cried out that I shouldn't talk about it. It's allowed now, isn't it?Oh, my God! The President of the National Assembly also said that he would not resign, he was responsible to 46 Members and to the coalition. Clearly, he is responsible for those who have done the same work, this is the withdrawal of the mandate. No one's responsible. The president of the National Assembly is quiet, the president has been quiet until recently. The president of the government is quiet, the president of the state is quiet. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not going to work. You're going to have to take responsibility. If you jump, you're wet in the water, that's the way it usually is. If you do something wrong, they can put you in jail. That's true, too. And you will have to take political responsibility. I must admit that – the President of the National Assembly will, of course, have the opportunity to answer me later, but what I heard yesterday is a great deal of shame. And something I never thought I'd hear from the President of the National Assembly, who is the President of all Members. And as I accompany the work of the National Assembly, no President of the National Assembly has acted as our current President. He replied to yesterday’s letter – SDS wants to polarize Slovenia. Very interesting. What was 20? 6. 2014, when Janez Janša was on his way to the Age, when he was a major campaign?Oh, my God! Wasn't that the polarization of Slovenia?Oh, my God! She wasn't, was she? "SDS destabilises political space." Mr. President, with what? What, though, if we claim redress? I expected you to stand for this stage and apologize to Mr Janša on behalf of 57 Members. The word forgives me, it's easy for me to get out of my mouth, obviously not you. Let's move on. Citizens want to live in a state of law, says the president of the National Assembly. Yes, well done, President, because we're stressing it through. Therefore, it cannot happen to Patrio and there can be no illegal and unconstitutional withdrawal of the mandate, Mr President. And of course you want to look forward and solve current problems. Yeah, that's what we've been asking you for a year. However, you have dealt with the mandate of Janez Janša, not the economy and the finances. Furthermore, the president says that the SDS letter is headed for emergency situations. Yeah, what's the emergency? Sorry words don't in any way mean creating extraordinary situations. But if you're not able to say them, it's just a little harder. An extraordinary situation was created by the Slovenian political left 20. 6. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the It was too big at the time. Or during the presidential election. Also at the time was one of these excesses of emergency, an alleged emergency situation in Slovenia. Ladies and gentlemen, take responsibility. [[Incomprehensible]] Let's go to this package of electoral legislation that we have before us today. What distinguishes this package of legislation from that proposed by the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek? In nothing but a six-month prison sentence being imposed as a condition that someone can't run. So the coalition and its reserves, the United Left and the ZaAB, are now the same in their value system. Now you're all united, about there, now it's all the same, and nothing's wrong. And what is the position of the SDS Group? You're not gonna believe this. The SDS package will not oppose the legislation. If you look comparatively in some countries or in many countries of the European Union, it is also regulated there. But it is to consider whether it is now six months or one year, which was also the position of New Slovenia before the time. We just respect European standards. If this is in European standards, what are we going to do?Oh, my God! We can't argue with that. We want to upgrade this package of legislation and draw attention to two things. We would like to add – and this in a second reading – amendments that, like those sentenced to a certain prison sentence, would also prevent candidates who were agents and spikes. The Slovenian dictionary says they're SDV and KOS spies. This is an equivalent matter that should go into law. Secondly, we have very serious concerns about the judiciary. No problem is German, Austrian, French, or any other court, there is no problem because it is known that if they sent you to prison, they had evidence to do so. But they can send you to prison without evidence, and that's a big problem. So why the ban on running for agents, spikes, spies of the Udba and the KOS? Simply because the Udja was the political police of the former Communist Party. It was aimed at persecuting political competitors, therefore the opposition which should not have been, which should not have been at the time at all. There was no, you will not believe, no law speaks of the State Security Service; there is no, there is no. However, this service acted in secret in a way that protected the one - party political system — and killed. She's been planning mounted political trials. The typical case is Angela Voda. Convicted in 1953, died in 1984. She didn't have any civil rights and nothing; she was in a mounted process. Next, Udja carried out murders at home and abroad. What the Resurrection did at the transition to democracy, he told us nicely, or you can read in the book by Dr. Antej Kovacič — Man and His Shadow or Man and His Shadow. There you will read the record of Željko Kekić, a member of the Udba between 1980 and 1990, he beautifully told what this service was doing at that time. They were planning a transition to democracy, which means they were determining who would go to the elections and helping him. They determined who the Croatian president was and also helped him to make his election. We didn't need this because the Udbov chief was a political boss at the top of the charts anyway; I'm talking about Mr Kučan, we didn't have to do this. What Ubba was, the Supreme Court also said. He said it was a criminal organization. If it was a criminal organization, then it was her employees, her coworkers, her spires, her spies, as you wish, her criminals. 42 of them have already sat as Members in this National Assembly. Thus, criminals cannot participate in the elections either, so we will insist that this goes into the package of legislation. That's what they did elsewhere. Lustration legislation has been passed by many countries; for example, 8% in East German judges is just another one that belongs in the new united Germany; and they have made half of colleges a new one. They drove the rest of us away, but everyone else is here. Why do we have great doubts about justice? As I said before, there is no problem that someone who is sentenced to a six-month prison sentence cannot run; but he must be convicted legally, fairly, in accordance with the laws and the Constitution. Based on clear material evidence. Then there's no problem. But the situation is different with us. All those in the courts today are the same people who violated human rights before the year 90. And our judiciary never respected that those judges should not sit there and continue to judge and that they must leave. The problem is also a political impact on the functioning of justice. Why the political impact on the functioning of justice? Just because we're 13. 5. 2010 in this National Assembly had a proposal on the table for the appointment of the President of the Supreme Court. There were two candidates, Mr Šorli and Mr Maslesha. Mr. Schorli speaks three foreign languages and has a great scientific opus; look at Cobiss. Mr Maslesha doesn't speak any foreign language, except I'll say the one from downstairs, and he doesn't have any scientific publications. Nothing or nothing. But look, we're talking about the impact of politics on justice. At that time, the SD Member – I hope you are listening – Mrs. Dara Lavtijar Bebler set the milestones. She said that Mark Schorley couldn't be a candidate because decades ago he was a member of the Senate that had forgiven Paul Rupar. So Šorli took part in a Senate, and we don't even know how he voted. Maybe he voted for Mr. Rupar to be punished. But since he was a member of the Senate, he can no longer be a candidate for the President of the Supreme Court. It has become a different criterion — so if you condemn only the right ones, then you are a candidate for the President of the Supreme Court. If you've done anything on the other side, you can't be. This is the impact of policy on justice and this is the problem. And secondly, let me just telegraphly remind you of the situation around Patria. In late August, Lucu writes that a big bang is coming from Finland, but Kučan is going on vacation. And this big bang is coming up 1. 9. 2008, three weeks before the election. J. J. got a bribe, you know. This has nothing to do with the election. This has nothing to do with democracy and that kind of thing. It is also clear that it is not possible to talk about fair elections then. This is very clear today. The judiciary is therefore politically motivated and therefore the problem is these six months. Elections 2011, Janša sentenced to imprisonment. Voting 2014, going to jail. And now you're talking about fair elections, and you're being ridiculous. We could talk about fair elections if this verdict were to be held, but the verdict didn't hold. Constitutional and legal rights were violated. Constitutional and legal rights! So that's the problem with the judiciary. Thus, the politically motivated and independent judiciary serves the political backdrop. Serves the politicians back as servants. KPK and the Administrative Court have declared Mr Fischer's corrupt behaviour – SMC and the coalition tolerates the case. Look, he's bringing it back. He's returning the favors he gets back to the court. Let's take another case, say Kangler is a political competition, at least as far as I'm concerned, and he wouldn't be doing him any songs, though. In 2012 Kangler was elected to the State Council. For the first time in history, his mandate was not confirmed. Or do you, ladies and gentlemen, imagine when we first sat in a bench in this composition, and someone would say to Mr Horvath, and we will not confirm the mandate. Sort of. Or me. What would that look like? I don't have words, actually it's hard to go on, but that's what happened to him. It's the first time in history. Politically, probably not. In February 2013, the Constitutional Court gave him his mandate back. Apologize to one state councilman, everyone else is not capable of that. It's a shame, you know! And Kangler's vote was about who's gonna be president of the State Council. You see, that's the influence of politics. And then what happens – Kangler gets seven months in prison. A judge appointed — a bang — a nail on his head, as it is called, and sent him to prison for seven months. The Constitutional Court, of course, annuls this. The Constitutional Court has repealed this. And those of you who spoke last time, I heard someone being convicted of Kangler – that's not true! Kangler's innocent. He loses the mandate of a state councillor. Who's gonna give it back to him? Did someone give it back to him? Is he getting any compensation? Did anyone apologize? Nobody! The judge, who writes Pozrek – you probably know him, Mrs Murgel – does not hide at all that he has pronounced a political judgment. He said, "Yes, but Kangler is working on the farm, but Kangler poses a serious danger to return to political life. He has to go to jail." That's what the judge writes. Here we have that problem for six months and an independent judiciary, if we don't have it, right? No one has reacted, but Mr. Pahor knows this, but Mr. Cerar knows, but the Guardian knows the Society of Justice, and he knows Masles, everyone knows; but no one does anything. Maybe Mrs. Murgel will then answer what she thinks about it, because she's just a professional. The second example, Kangler is an undetermined day in an undetermined place in an undetermined manner with an undetected means of subordinated orders — that apartment. What about Fisher? Fisher, however, abused power in a well - known way on a famous day and secured the service of Shkrlec. You see, it's an independent judiciary. That's impossible! So, nothing happened at all. What's more, Alenka Golcher now belongs to Kangler. He wanted to expel Judge Žirovnik for overseeing him for 11 years. 11 years, because he was still on Owl. This is confirmed by Mr Moge, who is not part of our political option, and Mr Jerovšek, under the notary. No, the judge says, "No, there won't be an expulsion." Done. You know that Jelinčič was talking about not giving some prosecutor three sheep a trap. He was convicted in the first degree and sentenced to a second degree and was convicted in the Supreme Court – then he could not carry out the mandate, could he? However, the Constitutional Court has repealed this. The Constitutional Court has repealed this. So this is the problem of the six months I've been talking about. Robert Fojkar, 11 years in court, was tortured and violated his human rights. He kills tens of thousands of dead after World War II, but there are no criminals! How can you have a dead man who's been killed? You don't have the one who killed him. Our justices – independent, whatever! Oh, poopy! But of course it's in Germany. They also belong to those 94 and 95 years old. And if we had that kind of justice, we could just decide and write down any ban on running. Not to mention everyone else, like the reporters of the reporter, Bosniak M. Turk, convicted of verbal delinquency and so on. And so on and so forth. Not to mention the thousands of citizens who are, in fact, on such a path. Let me conclude, therefore, the SDS does not oppose the package of electoral legislation, but we believe that the amendments I have been talking about should be taken into account. These amendments speak of banning the cooperation of criminals, free of charge in the Supreme Court, who have cooperated with the Udba or have been employed there. However, we have a great reservation about these six months, which in some ways must be introduced into the law; on the other hand, it is very clear that there is a great danger that this will be misused. Those who will continue to speak and represent the views of the Group of Members, I invite you to stay in the Chamber to face us, and not to go out as usual. When I perform, then you leave the hall because you don't hope to face it. So, stay here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u11	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Benedict Kopmajer, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u12	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State! At the beginning of the presentation of the position of the Desus Group on the package of amendments and the addition of electoral legislation, let me mention some of the main solutions that the proposals bring. The most important institute is, in our opinion, certainly a limitation of passive electoral rights for individuals who are legally convicted. This is a restriction on passive electoral rights due to criminal offences committed, which are legally defined as repudiable due to social danger and are prescribed by the worst of criminal sanctions. The impossibility of these individuals is limited in time to legal or judicial rehabilitation. In the case of amendments to the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, the rules for voting by post and ensuring the right of persons with disabilities in accordance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court shall be further regulated. As an important novelty, we also think that the so-called sex quota should be increased from the current 35% to 40% of the representation of each dispute on the candidate list. The other four proposals are, however, more or less simply to regulate the conditions of application for functions at national level. The right to vote is a fundamental human right and therefore every intervention must be carried out with extreme discretion, with great sensitivity and respect for the principle of proportionality. We have also taken such an approach in the coalition to the preparation of this legislation and have drawn up restrictions that are comparable to European legislation. One would expect only individuals with extremely high values and moral values to run for the highest positions of power. We would expect an individual who is running for office as an MP or another beloved official to ask himself whether he can use his way of life, his moral values, and his conduct as an example to the people. Similarly, the authors of the Slovenian Constitution, the Law on Elections in the National Assembly, the Law on Members and other electoral legislation that regulates the conditions for candidateing for the highest functions in the country and also at local level. For if they expected prisoners, i.e. people who had been legally sentenced to imprisonment for more than six months, to be able to achieve so much respect for the Slovenian State and its people and moral values and to judge that their conduct could not be an example to others and could by no means be representative of all the people, they would have already installed security guards to prevent people from running and choosing. It is interesting, however, that virtually every candidate for public service must submit a certificate of impunity. And his boss can be a convicted felon without any problems, so it's called a criminal record person. In the Desus Group, we are convinced that even in the case of amendments to the legislation adopted, people with low moral values and a suspicious past will not be able to prevent candidates for the highest functions forever; for, according to the proposals before us, such a person can run again; but only after they have been deleted from the criminal record. Let me get back to the content of the criminal proposals for a moment. In cases of termination of the term of office due to more than six months' imprisonment, Members and Councillors will have the opportunity to appeal to the Constitutional Court, which will have to take a decision within 30 days. The Constitutional Court will also play an important role in the case of a conviction by the President of the Republic. The suspension of his term of office would be determined by the National Assembly and will have to be confirmed by the Constitutional Court with most of the Constitutional Judges. The Constitutional Court is therefore the last resort for people who feel that their mandate has been wrongly taken away. From this we can conclude that the greatest power in the country is actually the Constitutional Court. The fact that we cannot deny is that in the Republic of Slovenia, unfortunately, there are extremely low political cultural and political standards. Because in most other countries all over the world it would be very difficult to find someone who was legally convicted and yet would run for the highest political functions. Even less likely to be rewarded by the electorate. In developed countries with high political standards, something like this is totally unacceptable. For this bizarre situation that we have witnessed in the last national elections in the Republic of Slovenia, when a convicted person was elected a Member, it is very difficult to find a comparison in the world. The only comparison we were able to find occurred in 1981 when a member of Ira was elected as a Member, who was then sent to prison by a judicial judgment. These events, including the last decision of the Constitutional Court, show us that there is no political hygiene in our country. However, equality before the law was eliminated at the time the prisoner was elected as a Member; while at the annual level, as many as 50,000 confirmed that they were unpunished, applicants could submit them to job applications. Of course, in the Desus Group, we are confident that we will receive a lot of criticism, a lot of dismayed views from the right hand and the evidence of a violation of the Constitution; however, we are willing to take risks with these proposals of legislation. For regardless of the content and outcome of the judgment, which is in the hands of such and other judges, we cannot possibly accept the fact that someone who has committed a crime, that he has received at least half a year's imprisonment for him, in this country is an official solely because he has received some support in the elections. We can also interpret this in such a way that any convicted person with an effective piar can come peacefully to Parliament and co-decision on the future of all of us. So also someone who's going through a penalty for trafficking in human beings or drugs if I'm exaggerating a little bit. In the Desus Group, we will consider the proposal for amendments and the addition of electoral legislation as suitable for further consideration. We look forward to constructive proposals to improve the proposed novelties, and we are convinced that electoral legislation can be drank to this limit, that we will address the fundamental inequalities between citizens and citizens who are running for public sector services and who are running for the highest positions in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u13	The word shall be given by the Group of Social Democrats, in its name mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u14	Thank you, President, for your word. President of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! In the introduction to the presentation of the position of the Group of Social Democrats, let me say that we will support the decision that we have proposed today that the law under consideration is suitable for further consideration. We are confident that both of you will receive adequate two-thirds support – the Law on Elections to the National Assembly and the Law on the State Council – which goes beyond the support of the coalition and colleagues from the Alliance. This will allow for a further legislative procedure on the home work bodies, which will follow in the coming periods. However, the proposed laws will, if necessary, be corrected and amended accordingly. At the 15th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, the Social Democrats stressed that we are advocates of a comprehensive regime of electoral law in a way that will not allow anyone who is legally sentenced to unconditional imprisonment for more than six months to cease this punishment to perform a public and political function. We hear many times that something like this can't happen in countries with advanced democracy, because this makes it impossible to simply respect the rules of political culture. However, since we are far from such a level of political behaviour in Slovenia, we must also regulate at the legal level such rules as to determine when an individual is no longer able to perform a public function or that an individual is unable to run for such a function for a term of non-conditional imprisonment of more than six months. Together with our colleagues and colleagues of the SMC, Desus and the Alliance, we have drawn up proposals for legislation on 3 June 2015, which will also regulate the legal and systemic field. Realizing that this is a very difficult matter, for it is an intervention in the right to be loved, we have asked ourselves many questions about this package of laws. At this point, I would like to raise the following three questions. Is the intervention necessary and inevitably necessary so that the desired objective cannot be achieved in any other way, i.e. by means of a milder means? Is the intervention even appropriate to achieve the desired and constitutionally acceptable objective? Is intervention in a reasonable proportion to the objectives, i.e. with the good to be protected by the intervention and with the reasonably expected effect of such insurance — so-called proportionality in a narrower sense? If we can see that many individuals do not have in themselves the built-in value mechanisms that are the basis of political culture and democracy, it is imperative that we settle this. Ladies and gentlemen, as part of the debate, there is also a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, which is in the legislative procedure of 30. 4. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In addition to limiting passive electoral rights, this bill deals with some other very important issues. First, I would point out the decision of the Constitutional Court of U-I-156/11 concerning voters available to persons with disabilities and the vote on those voters with specially adapted voting devices for persons with disabilities. After this decision, all voters should be available to disabled persons, but the law provides for an exception. Exceptionally, for geographical reasons, voters that are not accessible to persons with disabilities may also be identified. Due to the improved availability of voters, especially in geographically less accessible places or scattered settlements, voters were also in private-owned facilities. The owners of these objects are unlikely to be able to pay the cost of adjusting these facilities for access to disabled persons. But the question is, would the owners even agree to this? In particular, because the cost of the investment could be disproportionately higher depending on the level of the funds for their purpose. If there is no exception to the law, such voters should be closed and moved to more remote places where public facilities are accessible to persons with disabilities. The election is certainly not good because we have to make sure that all voters are allowed to take part in the election and express their democratic will. On these issues, the State Election Commission will have to review all voters and find suitable facilities that will be accessible to persons with disabilities and, on the other hand, ensure the proper exercise of electoral rights for all the other voters. It may be worth considering at this point that this issue would also be addressed during the transitional period since the entry into force of the law. The solutions in this law also relate to the use of voting devices. It is possible to establish from the State Election Commission analyses that a very small percentage of voters use the voting device, so it is appropriate to establish a voter on the basis of an analysis of the use of voting devices where a vote can be cast using an electoral apparatus. The legal void in relation to the post-vote shall be removed. It is proposed that the envelopes containing the ballots from abroad and the ballots arriving at the District Electoral Commission after 19:00 must have a stamp with the date or be accompanied by documents showing the date of their transmission to the post office, otherwise the message is invalid. The deadline for the submission of nominations from 25 to 30 days prior to the day of the vote shall be extended, making it easier only to carry out electoral tasks related to the printing and sending of votes and other electoral material. In Article 11 of the bill, the so-called quotas under which no sex on the candidate list should be represented by less than 35% of the total shall be converted to 40%; this means that no gender on the candidate list shall be represented by less than 40%. This condition will thus be aligned with the law governing local elections and elections to the European Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, we reiterate the fact that we already have a way of running for office in our client documents. Since we believe that it is primarily the responsibility of an individual to act in accordance with the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption and other laws, we believe that it is imperative to deal more closely with the issue of passive electoral rights, and we therefore consider that all the proposals in this package are suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u15	The text is given by the United Left Group, on her behalf by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, chairman. Honorable Government Representative, House of Honor! Since this is such an important subject, I will not improvise this time, but I will read what we have analysed in detail and prepared with our experts in the United Left. Today we are again discussing the subject, which we have already discussed a great deal in this mandate. When one package fell at the last extraordinary meeting ten days ago, we now have a new package of electoral legislation under consideration. The objective remains the same – to prevent convicts and prisoners from performing the most important functions in the country. Of course, we have been taking on such changes in the United Left. However, we would much rather see that political culture in the country rise to a level that would ensure that individuals charged with criminal charges, convictions, suspicions of corruption, transcription of diplomas, masters and so on do not choose to run; or that party discipline within the parties takes care of this. [[Incomprehensible]] But obviously we can't count on that, so we need systemic solutions to make it work. Although the changes mentioned in the proposals only concern those sentenced to imprisonment for more than six months, not for example those who have been in the anti-corruption proceedings before the Commission, who cannot prove where some of their millions of assets in private transactions — including some mayor of "the most beautiful city in the world", the end of the quote — even plagiarists and could still be listed. With the United Left, however, we believe that the package of electoral legislation represents at least the first step in solving this problem. As has already been said, we are clearly committed to appropriate amendments to electoral legislation that would prevent convicts from running and performing the most important political functions in the country. However, we believe that this is such an important area that all solutions need to be carefully reconsidered and prepared in such a way as to pass a constitutional assessment. The proposals tabled — including those new ones like the previous ones — still do not take into account a number of comments from the legal profession and not all comments from the Legislative and Legal Service; they are also not yet in line with the last decision of the Constitutional Court, which last week found that the Law on Members in force is contrary to the Constitution. Since it was known that the Constitutional Court would communicate its decision in a certain time frame, the rush to submit packages of laws, which had been tabled only eight days before the Constitutional Court's decision, was unreasonable. We certainly expect the applicants to correct and amend all the proposals by second reading, as we do not want to re-examine this calvary, which we have already seen in this mandate with the first package of "muscolo" laws, to put it that way. In view of the fact that some legal experts are eminent among the proposing parties, in particular in the SMC, we expect that the proposals will be constitutionally consistent and will not raise any concerns about the non-constitutional nature of the provisions. A colleague moves his head, we expect – still. We also hope that this unreasonable hurry will not continue and that proposals will not be tried in any way to push and adopt before the summer. Why? In any event, the government wants to do more than it has done in the entire mandate so far during the time remaining for parliamentary holidays. In addition to the electoral package, we will consider in just a few weeks if I mention just one thing: the Fiscal Rule Act, the Country Capital Investment Management Strategy, the Treasury, the Foreign Policy Declaration and a whole bunch of laws in the field of justice; and a law dealing with water, leadership, anti-flood protection is being tried quickly. In short, it hastens in all decisions that should indeed be made as democratically as possible, taking into account the deadline for public debate and soundness of mind. In short, we should "festina tape" – hurry slowly. If a package of electoral laws is not sufficiently prepared and clear and still raises concerns about constitutional compliance, we can ask ourselves about the sincerity of the intentions of the applicants. In the United Left, we have already pointed out at the consideration of the previous package that more legal experts should be included in the proposals. Like the new minister said, integrate the vertically competent ministries. But, unfortunately, that didn't happen. Since some of the proposals have been tabled earlier and others later, they are also partly inconsistent. Some provisions are incomprehensible and incomprehensible. I'll give you some examples. The positive change in the percentage of representation of both sexes on the list of candidates for the state-run elections of practice will not change much. On the other hand, this morning, I counted with professional associates in the 40-member State Council, you know how much I give?Oh, my God! Three; therefore, we would expect the National Council to be provided with comparable representation of both sexes. The amendment of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly also includes a provision on the accessibility of voters to disabled persons; something has been said about this, so I will not repeat it. In our view, it is as unconstitutional as it is currently in force and therefore it is by no means eliminated. However, there was a direct bizarre awkwardness in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Act, where the provision was written in such a way as the media had already warned that it could be understood by someone who had already been convicted at least once. Mr. Vinko, we could be happy about this. Such and similar indignation is quite something in the text, so we hope that you will take sufficient time to prepare the necessary corrections so that in the final text such unacceptable lapsuses will be no more. Since the proposals will come into force in the next elections, there is really no need for an excessive rush. Even if we look at a transitional provision stipulating that the Elections Act will only enter into force in the first regular elections. I will repeat again – in the first regular elections. Given the last regular elections we had, given the functioning of the government and the coalition, it is certainly more appropriate for laws to take into account the possibility of early elections. As we say, in the United Left we support the objectives of the electoral legislation package and we will also support the laws at this stage. It is clear from the Constitution itself that there are no obstacles in order to prevent the conditions for candidateing and performing the most important functions. Such restrictions are not specific in comparable systems either; I will not now list the countries because they have already been listed, in short, there are many; therefore there is no reason why we could not manage them. However, the problematic implementation of these restrictions is in sectoral laws, which of course is not as simple as it seems at first sight. We hope that the proposalers are also aware of this. Today's debate is likely to be limited to the decision of the Constitutional Court last week, at least on one side of this Chamber. That was expected, legal, legitimate. As far as this is concerned, it should be noted that the current Law on Members was adopted in 1992 and its provisions for the Constitutional Court of all 23 years were not disputed. Calls for derogations on the right side of this Chamber are unjustified, as we voted in favour of the decision on the basis of a law that was not disputed until the previous week. However, as part of the Constitutional Court's decision, one more detail is that the Law on Members and the Law on the National Council contain an identical provision, namely that both in the event of a legal conviction to a non-conditional term of imprisonment, the term of office should be terminated. We know what Member I am talking about; we know what Councilman I am talking about. Not the first or the second law does not contain special legal protection in the event of the withdrawal of a mandate. What is most interesting is that the Constitutional Court has dealt with these two cases to this day – the removal of the mandate of the Council of State and the removal of the term of office of a Member. The situation is almost identical and the decision of the Constitutional Court is not. In the case of a Member, the violation was so severe that the Constitutional Court, in addition to the decision to withdraw the mandate for a non-constitutional declaration, has also declared the Law on Members. However, in the case of a state councilor, his mandate was restored, but the identical provisions of the State Council Act are still in force. However, the Constitutional Court did not decide on this law. We could say that we have come so far that even convicts of important state functions are not given equal treatment. As has already been said, in the United Left we will support the proposals of the law at this stage, and we expect all proposals, including those of the United Left, to be aligned and corrected accordingly. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u17	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, on her behalf, Mr Jernej Vrtovec, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u18	Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the last two mandates, we have considered several attempts to regulate the limitation of passive electoral rights for top state-level officials – we are talking about members of the National Assembly, the President of the Government and ministers, the President of the Republic and state councillors. Some of the proposals in the package of functional laws have also affected the position of officials at local level – we are talking about mayors, municipal councillors; in particular, the conditions for their election or, rather, the discharge. The objective pursued by all the proposals put forward was to clear our political space. Now the coalition says it is also about clearing political space, raising political culture itself. As we know, none of the experiments have been successful in the past. In New Slovenia we agree that a rise in political culture is needed, but with some general facts. The proposal proposed by the so-called wider coalition – limiting passive electoral rights – is actually a non-trust to the electoral body, the electorate and the electorate. Ironically, you do so-called self-calling liberals who claim that man himself should be able to separate grains from weeds. In fact, we have people who are incompetent, saying that they cannot distinguish themselves and say, "No, we will not elect a prisoner as a member of the National Assembly." In Novi Slovenija, we feel the opposite and believe people that they will not elect prisoners for such responsible functions. That's it. If the electorate and the electorate want to have prisoners for the MPs of the National Assembly, they should have them after all. It is also important when we talk about political culture and who can be elected as a member of the National Assembly; this is a sieve of political parties. Here you are all newly formed parties – so-called parties that you create overnight – before a great test, namely your own candidates with whom you run, you don't even know yourself. In the past, you had a serious problem recently, in this case with the Minister of Education. In New Slovenia we have no problems in this, we know our client well, we run with the best of the best. If I move on. Today, the amendments under consideration and the addition of functional laws seek to achieve the same objective as they did years ago. According to the applicant, this is regulated this time in such a way that the restrictive conditions for election to the highest public functions will be uniform in accordance with our constitutional arrangements. It should be noted in the opening that today's bill proposals once again do not have uniform restrictions on passive electoral rights, which is not the best. The draft amendment to the Law on Elections to the National Assembly limits the candidateship for a seat of MPs in the National Assembly to all those who have been sentenced to unconditional imprisonment without restriction; while the other three proposals for amendments to the laws – namely, the Law on the National Council, the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Law on Elections of the President of the Republic –can nominate a candidate for a term of six months' imprisonment as a state councillor, the President of the Government, the Minister and the President of the State. This distinction, according to the conviction of the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, is not justified or is not specifically explained. The Law on Elections in the National Assembly is a basic law, which is also subsidized in elections for all other highest functions in the country; and these laws must also be consistent for this reason. As we have already pointed out in our position on functional laws at the last extraordinary session when we consider the previous package of functional laws, the fact is that our constitutional regime allows for the legal limitation of passive electoral rights for members of the National Assembly. In this case, however, there are extremely sensitive interventions in one of the fundamental rights of democratic regulation – the right to be elected. That is why we must be extremely careful in this limitation. We must also be careful before the Constitutional Court so that you do not fall again on the judicial exam. Since it is an infringement of electoral law as a fundamental human right, any restriction must stop a rigorous test of proportionality and also a test of legitimacy. Again, passive electoral rights or the right of citizens to be elected are one of the fundamental rights. However, its restriction is extremely sensitive because it is a matter which is also considered by constitutional lawyers to be extremely sensitive. And the current draft law on elections to the National Assembly, according to our firm conviction, excessively interferes with passive electoral rights or the right to be elected, since it provides that an individual will be banned from running for the National Assembly for unconditional imprisonment without restriction. I repeat, even in the view of constitutional lawyers, who in some way warn you, this is an excessive intervention. All of this must also take into account the views already adopted by the Constitutional Court in the present judgments. In one of them, the Constitutional Court has determined that electoral rights restrictions must also be based on solutions to the comparative regimes acceptable in modern democratic societies. In addition, the Constitutional Court refers to the Code of Good Practice in Election Cases adopted by the Venice Commission. This code, as one of the reasons for the seizure of electoral rights, lays down a criminal conviction for worse crimes. Of course, these can only be presumptive crimes. Therefore, in New Slovenia, we will continue to propose an amendment to limit electoral rights only to premeditated crimes, which are punishable by imprisonment for more than six months. Case, car accident. It is usually a traffic accident and therefore an unscrupulous crime should not be made available to the electorate. The following criteria, which define worse crimes, are also the type and duration of the sentence imposed. Even if we stem from the German regime, as we may have heard at the outset, the restrictive criterion has been imposed on a non-conditional prison term of more than six months. This criterion is now laid down in our current legislation to terminate the function of a Member of Parliament and, in the view of the Christian Democrats, is a suitable criterion that would also go beyond the constitutional assessment. Such a criterion would also go beyond the constitutional assessment of the limitation of passive voting rights for all the highest functions in the country. The problem with the proposal for a package of laws is also criminal records. The law itself intervenes in criminal records because you are proposing that an individual should not run for a year after the end, limitation or release of a prison sentence. However, an individual can be recorded in the criminal record for longer periods and the question arises as to how we will assess it. This is also about the up-to-dateness of the criminal record itself. Furthermore, the next problem we follow is legal protection in restricting passive electoral law. You spoke of the Constitutional Court as that instance that will have to decide within 30 days. But is the criminal record really that up-to-date? We know cases where criminal records are not updated at all after more than a year. And you took the criminal record as a criterion. This area in the marriage is completely disorderly and will need to be regulated further. In New Slovenia, we are confident and agree that cleaning of political space is necessary, but first of all, we must take a step forward and look after ourselves as the first sieve proposed for candidates in the constituencies. The existing coalition has completely fallen in this area. And since we agree that cleansing of political space is necessary, today we will not oppose the amendments to the laws under consideration. In the next parliamentary procedure, as I said in the introduction, it is possible to improve, correct and harmonise the content of the proposed laws. To this end, we will table or support appropriate amendments in second reading if they receive adequate support in the first reading. Finally, in New Slovenia we agree that passive electoral rights are restricted to those who have violated human rights. For this reason, we will propose that passive electoral rights for the highest state functions be restricted to all the officials of the former Union of Communists of Slovenia and the former Union of Communists of Yugoslavia. In 1994, the Constitutional Court explicitly stated that the former regime was totalitarian and undemocratic. It follows that the former ZKS or the Yugoslav Communist Union acted in a non-democratic regime. The withdrawal of passive electoral rights for those who have helped to violate human rights is therefore on the ground, and we also know this in post-communist countries, Eastern European countries; and it is comparable in all respects. Finally, as I have already said, in New Slovenia, because we will have the opportunity to amend the laws below with amendments, we will not oppose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u19	The word shall be given by the Alliance's Group of Ambassadors, on her behalf, Mr Peter Wilfan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u20	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, the rest are present! In its decision last Thursday, the Constitutional Court stated that the Law on Members in force was inconsistent with the Constitution. The decision in the Alliance did not surprise us, mainly because of the preliminary decisions of the Constitutional Court in this case. In the Alliance, we ourselves believe that the withdrawal of the parliamentary mandate in such cases should be regulated in accordance with the Constitution and ensure that, in view of the very nature of the passive electoral right and the smooth functioning of the legislative branch, appropriate judicial protection is ensured. As regards the abolition of the decision on the termination of the term of office of Mr Janez Janša, the Constitutional Court has held that the term of office of a Member may also be performed by persons who have been convicted of the sentence of imprisonment if they have been convicted before their election or before the term of office of a Member. The reason for the Court's position is that the Law on Elections to the National Assembly does not determine who should not be elected as a Member. Therefore, before the Constitutional Court's decision in cooperation with the coalition parliamentary groups, we have tabled a package of electoral legislation in the Alliance, and we are looking at one part right now to prevent the recurrence of such cases. The amendment of the Law on Members regulates legal protection properly, and the Law on Elections to the National Assembly sets out more precisely the conditions for inadmissibility. The electoral legislation package was also supported by the Government. And what is essential is that, by adopting that legislation, public functions could not be carried out by a person sentenced to unconditional imprisonment for a term of more than six months. The same conditions are laid down at all levels — from the President of the Government to the Municipal Councillor. We are pleased that today is only the time when we can seriously address this issue and finally limit the possibility of running for those who have sinned against fundamental values in society and have been convicted of it. In the Alliance, we have been making every effort to define clearly the criteria for who and under what conditions to perform the highest functions in the country. We are convinced that there is not enough about ethics and we just have to talk about it, but we have to apply ethics and morality; this is more than obviously possible only by bridging clear criteria. This is also evidenced by the fact that we have already advocated in the past mandate to resolve all problems and dilemmas as to who and under what conditions can assume the highest functions in our country. With proposals containing such solutions, we continue to do so in this mandate. The Coalition and the Government have only listened to us, which we are sincerely pleased to hear; we are also pleased to be able to participate in a constructive way and to delete the borders of opposition-coalition. This is just another proof that content is more important than political colours. That is why it is all the more important for the electoral legislation package to support all the parliamentary groups. In recent days, calls were made by the SDS Members to all Members who voted in favour of the removal of Janez Janša's term of office in the past year, by the way, by the way, the said Member was also excused. Let me remind you, a group of five lawyers who, at the invitation of the Parliamentary Mandate-Electorial Commission, gave a legal opinion on Janša's parliamentary term of office, suggested, inter alia, that the National Assembly decide whether Janša could still remain a Member. Since such a decision did not receive support, Janša terminated his mandate; as he terminated his mandate years ago to SNS Member Happy Friend, but then without a large pump. Only the case of John Janša raised many open questions. However, lawyers were primarily concerned with the question whether the provision on the existence of a lawfully convicted person cannot be a Member is also relevant to cases where he has been convicted before he can be nominated. The Law on Members clearly allowed for different interpretations. However, only one interpretation can be consistent with the Constitution. Notwithstanding the fact that we have now defended in the Alliance a position in which the prisoner cannot perform a public function, as I have already said, we will respect the constitutional decision. However, we will not apologize for the decisions we made on the basis of the indisputable fact, and this is that John Janša was then legally convicted and was in prison at the Age. In the Group of Ambassadors, we cannot escape the insults heard from the types of SDS at the expense of the constitutional lawyers who have given that opinion. The prominent members of the SDS Group refer to them in their statements, debates and records as quasi- constitutional lawyers, leftist lawyers or even "the quasi-constitutional lawyers were, of course, farce". With all due respect, colleagues and colleagues, it seemed perfectly logical to some Members on the right what constitutional lawyers had advised Mir Cerar, by the way – opinions were not completely united, nor were they surprising to us in the Alliance. It is difficult to avoid the impression that one parliamentary group has two-thirds of the Members of this Parliament as ignorant people who should even apologize for their decisions. With the decision of the National Assembly to withdraw the mandate, Janez Janša would be in violation of human rights and would be in clear violation of electoral law. Thus, on the one hand, we have a warning of the Ombudsman's continued violation of these rights that threaten human dignity and survival; on the other hand, we have dealt with the prisoner's electoral rights. But no one's ever asked anyone to apologize. One of the few that she was able to do was former Minister of the Interior Katarina Kresal, who apologized to the deleted, at which time there was a massive violation of human rights; and we were dealing with the question of whether a prisoner could perform a sent-off function. With the legislation that we are considering today, we will remove all these dilemmas. Simply put, a Member who will be legally sentenced to a term of imprisonment of more than six months will not be allowed to run for the elections and will also cease his term of office. And it is already common sense to us that a convict in prison simply cannot perform a mission, such as a prison doctor cannot continue to treat people in the Clinical Center. And to conclude, being a member is not a hobby, it's a paid job and it's still a responsible function. We must all be aware together that we are representatives of the people in state affairs, and we must carry out our function with all seriousness and responsibility. Is it really possible with the prison benches?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u21	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the proposals for laws. First of all, a representative of the Magi's proposer applied. Lilliana Kozlovich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u22	Thank you, Chairman. Some clarifications based on the views presented that have now been presented. When we limit passive electoral rights, it is particularly important to know the consequences of this restriction. But what was said was that this drama came about in 2014 – I don't think that's true. The first package of attempts to address this issue was in 2013 when there was no drama; and it shows that the parliamentary group or then the ruling coalition wanted to settle the issue; and – as it turns out – failed. As far as I'm concerned, it's the prestige of SMC. The package of laws which were rejected was clearly stated. Again, they were rejected for purely business reasons because it was not possible to correct everything required by the Legislative and Legal Service as well as the Constitutional Court, and for this reason it was necessary to submit We know that there could not be two laws at the same time, one must be removed from the world. [[…]] As far as what was said from the United Left. I have already said in the introduction that we have been thinking about everything that can be the reason for restricting passive electoral rights; and I have also stated what France has in place. They suggest that someone who has been corrupt or has not reported his property — yes, these are all the reasons why we can talk further. This is a matter of some social consensus, which we will recognize as a reason why someone cannot perform such a function as a member's public function or some other; that he cannot perform at all in public elections. As for the final decision of the Constitutional Court, because it was said that we were in a hurry and that we did not wait for it. Most of the things the Constitutional Court was talking about were taken into account. What is new and what we find is the suspension effect that must be taken into account when someone complains and is deprived of his mandate or when his mandate is terminated. Of course, we will correct this properly and ensure that it is taken into account. We invite all the political parties that you have also said that you will work together to submit all your proposals and coordinate them together. As regards gender mismatch in the Law on the State Council and the Law on Members, let me just stress that the Law on Elections in the National Assembly is being applied in a subsidiary manner. In both cases, it is a legislative body. Parliament is made up of two houses and as is the case with Parliament, it also applies to the Council of State. As regards the orderly treatment of persons with disabilities, the Constitutional Court has said that it must be accessible to all. We talked to the State Election Commission despite the provision that we have to ensure that they may be exceptional voters who will not be available; but this can also be arranged in a way that allows voters to move elsewhere. This provision will be corrected accordingly. As far as the transitional provision for the law to enter into force only in the case of regular elections is concerned, there is also a misunderstanding. If we look at a transitional provision, it clearly states that the law enters into force within 15 days of the announcement. With regard to the entry into force of the regular elections, only the provision relating to the resolution of the electorate shall apply, i.e. only Article 17. When I listened to the position on raising political culture and that this is the non-trust of the electorate, I wonder if this is really the voter's distrust. In Slovenia we have a million 713,000 voters. And those who wanted a prisoner – and I don't understand that someone says that if voters want to have a prisoner, they should have a prisoner – 0.9% of them voted out of a million 713 thousand. Here I must stress that the limitation of passive electoral rights means the protection of active electoral rights. Those people who go to the polls must be given the integrity of the elections by this restriction. It is said that this other majority, and this very large majority, has the right – and this is what we regulate to ensure this sovereignty of the people, that they have the right to the integrity of the elections and the electoral process. As far as the difference is concerned, it is regulated by the Law on Elections to the National Assembly and other laws. It is true, there is currently a difference and we will duly amend it, try to find a consensus that will be appropriate for all political options. It was also based on what you have already proposed in some political parties. As far as traffic accidents are concerned, negligence. We have not decided to divide ourselves into indecisive crimes and petty crimes, because if this is such a high degree of negligence that a prison sentence is imposed, we believe that such a person, when performing public functions, is capable of so great negligence that the question of whether we can trust him. In particular, because up to three years in the event of a traffic accident, a penalty may be imposed if a prison sentence is prescribed. Where a conditional penalty is imposed, they shall not have any legal effect. However, as soon as an act is committed, if one or more persons are killed, a sentence of eight years is prescribed. In such a case, the court is likely to impose a prison sentence and legal consequences may arise. As regards criminal records, the Ministry of Justice also participated in the drafting of this legislation. For a long time, we have been overplaying how to ensure who is the one who will determine it and in what way. We have not put the burden on the electorate or candidates, but we have transferred this burden to the Ministry of Justice or to the electoral commission itself; we have a guarantee and it is in fact clear from the record. We also say that the data is not up - to - date — that is to say, we have no concrete case or evidence to prove it. The record clearly shows the date on which the offence was committed, as this is important; as it is important to prohibit the validity of retroactivity. The day when the prison sentence was suspended or deleted from the record, as from that day on it begins to run for one year; and is fully evident from the record, following the assurance of the Ministry of Justice. As far as political parties are responsible, here I am referring to raising the political culture they propose – of course they are responsible – and that is why political parties should be aware that most of those voters who go to elections have the right to have integrity guaranteed; and that they have such electorates, which sometimes make them uncomfortable to have them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u23	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Matthew Tonin and Mr Branko Zorman.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u24	Thank you very much, President. I will comment on just a few views and complement my predecessor in the part where I would like to further explain certain statements made by individual Members in their presentations and the thesis they have developed. I'm going to start in that circle where I see that we're going around in a vicious circle all the time when we're talking about this six-month term, if you -- why keep it, why not? It's also right to tell the genetics of how this happened. The fact is, when we first proposed the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, if you remember, we made it very clear then and made the distinction and difference between the Member and the executive. We are confident of some of the issues that even the Minister has been talking about today that those who perform executive functions have an even greater responsibility and a direct role in decision-making; therefore, there must be a kind of zero tolerance. However, as we were preparing for this legislation, there was always one and the same question: what exactly is the difference between the Minister and the Member of Parliament. Is it not necessary for both of them to have the same degree of trust, as well as some moral and ethical responsibility, before performing any function? How can you trust someone to perform a public function while on the other hand being legally condemned? And that's how we got to a point when we said no. If the Minister is held for no more than a month, the same should apply to the Member. Later and in the debate itself, we also came to the point that we had to ask ourselves why the legislative body in 1992 had even foreseen these six months. And the fact is, what colleague Vrtovac has been saying is that these six months have been foreseen for traffic offences or traffic offences committed by the participant. But this limit is once again problematic, because here I support my predecessor when he says, even if it is an unscrupulous act, the level of responsibility is very clear, and we must also set the limit somewhere at the end. This is about as in road traffic regulations, there are things very plastic and simple. If the limit is 50 kilometers per hour, what happens when the speed is over 51 kilometers. In this case, we go in another direction very quickly. The second thing that I think is very important to further explain is the visa of argument used by my colleague Vrtovac when he said that criminal records are not accurate and so on. In this discussion, I will not even let go, which is the responsibility of the competent authority that keeps records. In the process itself, it must be very clear whether this record is regulated or not. More importantly, today's law, the Law on Elections to the National Assembly in Article 103, makes it very clear that if someone were expelled, there is a possibility of appeal. The complaint must be resolved within 48 hours and it is very clear what must happen. Secondly, what is very important is in the debate itself, as the colleague mentioned, and I will be more specific about what this really means. You know that today, anyone goes to the elections and submits his personal data, the municipal electoral office or the republic or the competent commission checks the identity of the candidate data, and if it is a person who is listed, who exists at the final stage, to make myself more clear. The difference today is that there is not another column within this computer program when you type in, but the Ministry of Justice says there is no problem in establishing it, which is to check immediately whether it is a person entered in the criminal record. And this data can easily be matched with a database of complete data, which means that it will be practically immediately possible to verify it; at the same time. This means no greater work for the electoral commissions, since each person or data must be entered and immediately seen on the spot whether he is going or not. However, since this will be reviewed computerically, it is expected that the more accurate records will be. As far as this is concerned, there will be no problem, which I believe is no problem at all today, because it can always be checked. The statement that this is a non-trust to the elective body will be very simple to say, I consider it to be one of the political populist throws; for a simple reason, because it is the easiest thing to say to someone, because we are all very sensitive to what the electorate will say. I'd say it's a political abuse, not a slap. The political abuse of the electoral body, that today the electoral body mentions that it is a slap, that it does not trust the electoral body. I am sure that most voters and electorates will be quite pleased when it is finally clearly written down what to and what not to do. Things are going to be clear, but not that it's going to be passed on to the electoral body, so let them decide; please, that's funny already. I've heard something like this once in another debate that Members and Members of Parliament have this institution because they are loved and they are tested every four years or before. Because they are checked, they do not need other institutions and controls. What Mr Trček said when he mentioned that the Constitutional Court did not judge the same in the case of a similar situation that we had in the State Council as in the case of the Law on Members. In one case, even the court repeals the law or makes it very clear that it is an unconstitutional law or that it is not sufficiently regulated; in the first case, it does not. I think that says everything, so it is our job to settle these issues simultaneously in the Law on the State Council. In addition, let me mention that I particularly like this thesis on sexual quotas. The fact is that this is very difficult to do because we know how the Member of Parliament has been elected. We know that this is a proportional system and an election, while we have electoral votes in the State Council. I am sure that most Members do not know how the electorate votes work, except that they provide a sex quota and so on. The State Council is already a mastic organ, where, by definition, more men are already on their own. It would be very fun to also arrange for a balance here. How they will find themselves within representative organisations, but above all their problem is and let them deal with it. If they have anything to do with it, they can guarantee it. But it would be interesting to find this model and save it until the end of the law. I should also like to say that what Minister Koprivnikar said when he spoke on behalf of the Government, it would be advisable to make more stringent regulations for executive functions. Although the idea can be interesting, I think that this is exactly where we need to draw the line and unify things for all the officials. To divide them into beloved, named ones – this has no special effect; at least I am sure that in the country we want to be applied to all officials equally. This is also what everyone calls for in more or less debates. In the end, that's all I have to say. Mr Gorenak likes to repeat it very much, and since he will repeat it at least five times, he will probably do so at three, five, and probably seven o’clock in the evening when he receives it on television to make it happen — that the Alliance has introduced these laws for survival. Please, Mr Gorenak, because I understand you in my own way, it somehow suits you to satisfy your electoral body, and above all to tell those people and feed them with these untruths. The fact is that legislation is introduced primarily because people love clear messages and criteria; and you too at the final stage. I am sure that when the legislation is passed, you will say that it is legal, that is true and that is right.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin. Mr Branko Zorman, follow by Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u26	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today's debate can be interesting, and for a moment it can be boring, because we repeat old, same and same stories and they open up over and over again. Election rights are certainly one of the most fundamental, most protected rights in democratic societies. We have a passive and active electoral right. Active is the one that allows us to love people. But passive is the one that allows people to be chosen. If we are based on democratic principles, that people are always right in some way and that Parliament is the institution that reflects people's wishes, then we have little to say or overcomplicate. The people sitting here are sitting because of people's wishes and preferences. People have chosen this Parliament — as it is, whether we are satisfied with it or not — because they have estimated that certain individuals would be the best and in the best way to ensure and realize their interests. In some normal, legal, democratic country, I don't even see any excessive need to limit passive electoral rights, so after limiting the right to be loved. Why am I saying this? Because in some normal state, I am sure that voters in parliament would never have elected a prisoner if they thought that judgment was fair. However, since we have everything in the world of the court, if you want a legal state that makes mistakes, which also makes wrong decisions, it is not just Slovenia that case, today the case of Great Britain has been exposed; in some ways another question is being asked. I am sure that in Northern Ireland, voters would not elect this Member to Parliament if they doubted or believed that it was a just judgment. Because they were convinced that it was an unfair judgment, they expressed their support and elected him. I think it was a similar case in Slovenia; if people believed that it was a fair judgment, then Mr Janez Janša would probably never have been elected to Parliament again. However, because people believed that it was an unfair judgment, he was re-elected to Parliament. In our regulation today, we have a kind of limitation, if you are sentenced to six months in prison during your term, then your function automatically ceases and you can no longer perform your function. From a completely practical point of view, this is in some ways understandable because a Member who has been in prison for more than six months is having a difficult time fulfilling his function. We have had such a case in the case of Happy Friend in the past. With this solution or with this arrangement, no one has a problem and no one opposes or troubles it. The story we are dealing with today is how to limit who can even run for office as a Member and other functions that are also on the ground today. In my introductory part, I said that in some normal country, I practically see no need to restrict this passive function. This means the right to be loved to limit this function, because people will always decide what they think is right. And so it is, but I said, there are mistakes like this or other. And if we are to limit the right to be loved, then things must at least be comparable. If six months in prison is the point when your term of office ends, then it would also make sense to put six months in prison for the limit when you could or should not run. If you read the draft of this law, which the proponents have tabled, it seems to me that there is some unconsistency, if I say so kindly. I'll tell you which. If you read the Penal Code, Article 103 of the Penal Code, which speaks of the rehabilitation and deletion of the judgment, then interesting things are recorded inside. That is, if you are legally sentenced to imprisonment for up to one year, this legal consequence in the criminal record remains written down three years under the current Penal Code, which means that if you are sentenced to a sentence of up to one year, this remains in the criminal record for another three years technically. This means that virtually you four years can no longer do anything or run for similar or comparable functions. If you are sentenced to imprisonment for more than one year to three years, this shall be extended or this entry into this criminal record is already five years. In short, it's been a long time that I don't speak very long and for all the other punishments. If I have read your bill correctly, you write there that, regardless of all these provisions of the Penal Code, which prescribes how long a penalty is entered into the criminal record, it means that each entry is deleted after one year. So, if you've been sentenced to any kind of punishment or anything else, after one year it's erased from the record. Then you add the part that talks about six months in prison, which is also considered a limitation. I would expect the proponents to explain to us if we read this wrongly, we misunderstand or how you have coordinated and combined these provisions of the Penal Code with the solution you are proposing. However, if I did not overly complicate myself, I would personally be committed to a very simple solution – what is the limit during the term of office, let there be a limit before the term of office; and that is all.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr. Branko Zorman has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Let me first ask a rhetorical question to all of us and to all citizens. Are we a society of high moral values and are we a society of some high political culture? In view of the known response, one fact must be highlighted. We know, and it saddens me very much that in our country we have quite a few officials who are involved in such or other criminal proceedings, which we are certainly not proud of. And certain areas for certain political officials have already been regulated, procedures have been arranged in such cases as when these convictions occur during their term of office, such as those arranged for members of the National Assembly. For some other political officials, this is not yet regulated, including this package of bill proposals. We know what politicians do in some other political systems, which are convicted or even accused or should not be convicted, give up their mandate immediately, and give up irrevocably. This is the normal expectation of citizens, voters. Unfortunately, with us, these values are obviously or are no longer functioning, or whatever, so this amendment to the legislation is necessary. Since the adoption of the Constitution, the legal profession has pointed out that the restriction on passive electoral rights must be regulated. Until a few years ago, in the practice of this problem, we did not even feel that the political parties themselves had made sure that they had not placed persons in any criminal proceedings or even been convicted in the past. Then, apparently, as some debaters have already found, there was a break in our society in 2013, 2014 and this political culture was clearly incinerated. For some people, I could even say if they ever had one. It should be noted that this amendment of legislation is not directed at any particular person, because it would be difficult to identify this particular person because I have already pointed out that a number of politicians at local and national level are involved in certain criminal proceedings. In addition, this needs to be noted – and I am speaking as a counter argument to those who say that this legislation is prepared to harm and prevent the candidateing or execution of a specific person’s mandate – that these amendments to the laws on the table today cannot be applied back but are valid in the future. This does not apply for the period prior to the adoption of the new legislation. But these kinds of anomalies are saved in advance. I would like to point out another sad fact that the Constitutional Court, with, we can say, in quotations, "various criteria" refer, for example, to ordinary citizens; and with other criteria, for example, to the leader or leader of the opposition. I think the opposition doesn't have a leader, but let's leave it. The current legislation does not impose restrictions on candidates for public functions, so on the preferred functions, these are those we love in direct elections, or on appointed functions. To facilitate the notion of absurdity, perhaps the following — if you want to work in a state administration, you must present a certificate of impunity. According to today's law, a former prisoner, a current prisoner, can run for state-run elections or for a mayor, a municipal councillor or a state councillor, which is a completely absurd situation. To compare, for example, a state official and a political official who is loved in elections. In principle, this civil servant deals with some — let us take the case of a municipal official, for an easier visual representation — specific cases in the field he covers. But politics affects the life and future of all citizens; not only those who elected it, but all citizens. And also those who might argue that such persons can run, I don't think they want to; and then I'll illustrate why not. The proposed package of amendments to this legislation regulates three things: insufficiency or limitation of passive electoral rights, early termination of the mandate and legal protection for Members, State Councillors and the President of the Republic, in this first package. The following will also regulate the legal basis for mayors and municipal councillors when this legislation is on the table. The purpose, as I said, is to establish an institution of inadmissibility or limitation of passive electoral rights. The bill on the table refers to the fact that an individual who is legally convicted of an offence which is prosecuted under an official obligation cannot run for office for a Member. Following various discussions and comments by certain legal experts, this content will be amended during the procedure and corrected by a time frame for this ban on running, where, following a new decree, it will be stated that one year after the suspension, dismissal or limitation of the term of election, a person who is legally sentenced to unconditional imprisonment for a period of more than six months can not run. Why? Such an intervention in electoral law is justified by the fact that such a person who has been convicted of a criminal offence simply cannot be entrusted with the exercise of a public function because such a person is not worthy of public confidence, since even in his own matters he does not respect the fundamental rules of conduct in society. And it is assumed that in matters where public affairs are concerned, they would only do worse; and rightly so. The other thing that governs this legislation is to determine the reasons for the early termination of the function for those officials where this legal regime is poorly regulated. We know that this is regulated for Members in the Law on Members; we know in which cases the termination of the mandate will take place. For other functions – the president of the country, the state councillors, the president of the government, or below – in other legislation also for mayors and municipal councilors, this has not been explicitly defined and this legal void is being eliminated by this package of legislation. Another third matter to be dealt with here is the regulation of legal protection, which has also been raised during certain proceedings, which will allow for the appeal of a Member and the President of the State directly to the Constitutional Court, following a new law. Some of you pointed out that this legislation was non-trustful to the elective body, and then you went on to say that we believed people that they would not elect prisoners to the responsible places. No comment is required. Furthermore, one of the discussers said that if voters thought that the judgment was fair, they would have assessed it differently. I think it is best that we abolish all the courts, and the human voice will judge what is right and what is wrong; whether it is righteous or not. Perhaps one small sarcastic case – one of the discussers said if the prisoner ran and elected him, because the citizens knew it, then they deserved such a policy that would decide their lives and their future. I might even say - well, okay; in some ignorance of politics there somewhere far is not possible to influence directly. Now you have an example, I don't know, of a teacher, of a priest, of anyone who's convicted of paedophilia, proven whether from this point on you would still trust your child in protection because someone told you he wasn't guilty. But the court proved it was; but someone said it wasn't his fault. Would you? I doubt it. In addition, some of you have operated on statistics, that a certain Member has received 6,000 116 votes in his constituency and that this is legitimate and that this is an untrustworthy body. But in the same constituency, 11 000 289 other citizens went to the polls, who apparently assessed that this candidate was not suitable at that time; that I was not now generalising at the state level. This is some kind of data manipulation that a particular political party regularly uses. Comparative representation. One of the key criteria for assessing this possible, permissible limitation of passive electoral rights is this comparative display, so I will be able to point out below some countries how they have this in place. The full equality of active and passive electoral rights is generally not guaranteed anywhere in any country. It is also necessary to respect the principle of proportionality, to say this, and this is the case, this right prohibition of candidature applies only to perpetrators, but I am now speaking on this new proposal, and in part in accordance with certain laws already in force, for example, the Code of Criminal Procedure, which already applies; such a prohibition would apply to perpetrators of serious crimes for which a prison sentence is prescribed for at least three years. I say – prescribed; not defined. This prohibition shall not apply to conditional punishment if a person is sentenced solely to probation and not to imprisonment, this prohibition shall not apply. I am only talking about what you will see hereafter, in certain other countries, there are significantly stricter rules for this insurmountability. A questionnaire was sent to the Council of the European Union in December 2014, which was then sent to all members of the European Community, describing how, with restrictions on passive and active electoral rights, with time limits of prohibitions, consequences and so on across countries. In some countries, as you will see, the conviction limits an already active right, where only passive right. In other words, if someone is convicted and in prison, he has no right to choose where the right to be loved is. And now we're going to maybe a little bit of a state, to more specific things. For example, in France, a condition for inadmissibility may be, for example, an electoral offence, a violation of an electoral campaign, a miserably or too late in the announcement of a property situation. In this case, inadmissibility shall be determined for a period of one year. Officials of the executive branch shall be subject to inadmissibility or prohibition of running in areas where they have performed a business function for three years. For tax-related offences, the court may withdraw both active and passive electoral rights. Let's move on. Great Britain. If a person is convicted of a crime of imprisonment, whether detained for one year or on the run, then he cannot run. If a person is convicted of corrupt or other unlawful conduct in relation to elections or donations, he may be restricted to active and passive electoral rights. Consider Germany, which is often used for comparative purposes. In Germany there is a ban on being loved or leaving office in two ways. The first way is by law, which prohibits worse crimes that are not tax-listed, but refers to worse crimes where the sentence is higher than one year. Now the specification of Germany – even for those convictions where the penalty is conditional, they set out a ban on running. Not only for those who are sentenced to prison, but also for those who are sentenced to probation. And another way in which there can be a ban on being loved or leaving office is to prohibit a court that prohibits the ability to perform a public function or to be loved for political crimes such as treason, bribery and so on. This prohibition lasts from two to five years. Let's see Austria, in Austria they know restrictions on active and passive electoral rights. In their case, a person who is legally convicted of an alleged offence cannot be loved as an MP on a minimum of one year's non-conditional prison sentence. The case of Estonia, the limitation of electoral rights – is also limited to persons convicted of a crime, at any time, without a time limit, how long this ban applies. At the end of Greece, where someone might expect things to not be arranged, but in this area, I must say, they have well arranged. In the event of a criminal conviction, the criminal code provides for the duration of the deprivation of the right to vote and the right to be loved; also for candidates at local levels. By comparing the proposal of this new arrangement, we can find that it is very comparable to other arrangements as you have seen in certain solutions — even significantly more goods. Surely this amendment of our law does not touch an active electoral right, it is said that every citizen, including those in prison, has the right to vote; but he has no right to be loved. And since this will bring about a one-stop shop for poorly regulated matters in certain laws, I think that this package of legislation is absolutely appropriate for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u29	Thank you. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor. Mr Dušan Radič, Mrs Ludmila Novak, should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Before I touch on my debate, it is right to answer at least that — literally — nonsense stated by my colleague mag. Lilliana Kozlovich; in particular because it is first signed under the proposal for a package, at least as far as the Law on the National Assembly is concerned. She talked about a percentage, and in one basket she confused all the voters and voters in Slovenia. If you are already preparing and adopting a so-called package of electoral laws, then you need to look at the way elections are going. We know precisely that only those who live or have permanent residence in a given district can vote and decide on an individual candidate. That is why it is wise to be careful, especially if we do not fertilize stupidity. That's right. And something else. It is also important that we know that it was first signed when you took the mandate of Janez Janša, of course it was illegal and unconstitutional, you can find all of this in the decisions, said: "With this we will all be losers, unless colleague Janez Janša offers his resignation and thus saves the reputation of this Parliament and, of course, his reputation." I hope you are aware today of the consequences of these statements. And I'm asking you, if you could turn these words around a little differently today, who should have stepped down today?Oh, my God! Well, to get back to the subject, this is a so-called package of electoral laws; with this or a similar package of so-called formal and informal coalitions in this national assembly you have been exercising for some time. You rejected the Alliance's first proposal in agreement. Somehow it was said that a more systematic and comprehensive law should be drawn up. Fine, but before I go into a more comprehensive package, I have to say that I went through this whole package, to look at individual laws twice. Why? For the first time since we were in this National Assembly, SMC has taken 120 minutes to discuss. And I was really wondering what it says in here that you need 120 minutes to defend this package. Let me compare that on Monday, when we talk about 400m euros in the Ališić case, it's about NLB savers. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I'm sorry. You took 30 minutes. Today's 120 minutes. It will be true that John Janša is very important. Moving on, today we could look at something else, for example, how we will adopt some kind of package of laws that will help our economy recover; but still I hear that we are already a success story. Be honest once, and do not attribute matters for which you have done nothing. These desires, that today the picture is slightly better, are entirely in other hands, especially in the government of Janez Janša, in the person for whom you took 120 minutes of time today. Today, when we are talking about a package of changes to the law, I think we need to look at the matter a little bit wider first, because it is right to remind ourselves more than once why these laws are today. When the matter was still unclear for you, you unlawfully and unconstitutionally took the mandate of one Member, a citizen. Of course, it was a Member, and however it may have been that he received the most votes, despite the fact that he had been robbed of the election. Once again, it was about Janez Janša. For months you blocked the Commission's election to oversee intelligence and security services. This maneuver of yours has been controversial, and we also know this, because soon after the commission started working, it turned out that your government's minister had abused this service or security and intelligence service. That's why he's gone today. But why so much energy and blockage in electing this commission? Because of Janez Janša. According to your ethical and moral values and standards in this committee, he had nothing to look for. Until mid-October, it is said for several months, your only concern and main occupation was how to take the mandate of a Member in the most Pilateal manner. You've come up with that special committee of experts, and I'm not going to speak degradingly of them, as was said before. I think one of the colleagues said that we spoke humiliatingly – not at all. It's where you named the legal aces themselves. But you forgot one, so we wanted to help you with this, proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party; but Mr Milan Kučan did not want to participate in this committee; at least formally no, he prefers to work on that other side, he is closer to him. You have taken away your mandate in the most perfidious way, with one and only goal – how nice it is to laugh – to remove Janez Janša from this Parliament. And then you claimed to take political responsibility for your decision. Out of your mouth, your honor, there was no excuse. You can't do that either. What is more, today we are listening to those phrases that have already been used in some consensus or conversation, however, that the SDS with some radical issues requires that today’s situation be affected. That's funny. You're incapable of apologizing, and on the other hand, you're saying that SDS wants to radicalize this space. By denying the mandate and functioning of one Member – this is radicalisation, respected. One vote could be a key decision for this country. It's all so much weirder than that, because you probably remember all the words you said when you took your term. You said no more than once, I went to see political hygiene, political culture, ethics and morality, honesty, dignity. Therefore, today you will not convince me that this package is not exclusively accepted at the ad person level. The fact that you do not want to include SDS proposals in the proposed package of laws, which speak of preventing candidates from being also those who, if I say so in the package, were members of the Udba. I am talking about an organization in which individuals who have committed grave violations of human rights have cooperated in one way or another. We're talking about the worst forms, even the murders. Please don't forget, not only when you must or somehow want to appear open, democratic and reconciliation to the public when you adopt individual laws, such as graves, that crime is a crime, murder; no matter who or when he committed it. But something else matters today. This may be so, for both in this convention of the National Assembly and in the previous one, such fellow workers are present. I believe that this is most difficult for them; for you, who work with them in the parliamentary groups, it is probably even more difficult. Thus today, the red thread of proposed changes in the law is certainly the one to limit the candidacy for individuals who are legally sentenced to more than six months in prison. You refer to international standards in this regard and there is absolutely no point in contesting it. But at this point, I'm asking you something different. Do you know the international standard by which someone who is responsible for or has participated in the murders can run? Can anyone, according to international standards, run for office who has committed a grave violation of human rights and has participated in so-called organizations that were not legal and have done everything they thought was appropriate at that time to retain power? Or in these countries, which share a similar fate as Slovenia, they have not settled these things long ago and placed matters in their places. This, however, is a fitting thing for civilised and democratic society. And when we talk about limiting running in other countries, and we like to compare ourselves, I ask you: which of these countries has the power at the top of the prosecution and the judiciary of people who have violated human rights? Which of these countries has a Justice Minister as a person who has violated the Constitution and several laws? Of course you won't find her, because there is no such country. But this is Slovenia, so forgive – in such ways you are simply pushing us to the brink of democratic standards. It's all good and good if we're talking about limiting running, but let's not fool around. It certainly doesn't benefit anyone, and neither do you. What Mrs Kozlovich said then will happen – no one will win. But you know, after all, some sleep easier. In all this, I wonder how you sleep, because I believe that intimately you have not yet been able to make these decisions. I certainly couldn't. But you can laugh about it, but you can tell me a lot about it. In short, even in these countries you will never find a person – whom you called the leader of the opposition, I will say otherwise, then we were the biggest opposition party – which was closed just before the elections, you will not find. But the important thing is to compare ourselves in other matters. All right. Now a few words about this comprehensive approach that you needed so much exercise for. You're talking about quotas, right? But you know what you've written down, it's also necessary to arrange to take into account the order in which candidates are to be assigned by list. This is the Law on Elections to the National Assembly. Come on, Mr Jani, because you know the legislation, I suppose, and you can tell me how candidates in this particular electoral system can be allocated to the National Assembly in an orderly manner. It's not working. We can, if we're one and two, we'll all be one; that'll probably work. You were talking about the post office vote. Okay, it's important. In doing so, you have missed a very important point – Slovenian soldiers on missions can never vote. Do you even know that? In many cases, their constitutional and legal rights were limited because they had not been reached at all. Did you say anything about that? Of course not; but the law is fully prepared. You were talking about people with disabilities and accessibility. Look, even now they're trying to make voters fit for the disabled. And because you didn't know how to make or draw the most out of it, but because there would not be any euro going accidentally for that purpose, because if you actually thought that accessibility would be appropriate and possible for all the other disabled people who needed special devices, then you wouldn't have laid down in this part of the law that it would enter into force in another period. The issue needs to be resolved comprehensively today in terms of comprehensive solutions. But tell me, at least 10% of those voters will have to have access. I'm asking you nicely, because it doesn't matter the number of voters! It's important how many electoral beneficiaries are on an individual voter. 10 % may mean a minimum. You can have two voters who practically cover half the congregation, I'm speaking a little hypothetically. But the fact is that this is really not a comprehensive approach and what the Alliance's proposal was worth rejecting. Maybe it's who's first-signed. But I would never put my name under such a proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u31	Thank you. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Vice President. I have to say, I tried to start by listening to arguments, but they weren't there. It was everything else, just arguments not. Finally, for the last two minutes, she raised three fundamental questions that make sense to answer. What is the basic question?Oh, my God! Mrs Anja Bah Žibert is always asking if we sleep well. Okay, we're sleeping fine, let's go. Although I didn't think I'd have to explain how we sleep under these laws. More importantly, if we can ask ourselves these laws — and I never get that answer from that side — what would happen would I give a very plastic case if I were legally convicted and in prison, you would agree. Answer me. And I'd come here every day. Just answer that question, and it will be easier to come up with essential solutions that need to be regulated by law. I think we'd break up with that. The only reason we'd be here is to drive me out of the State Hall. The second thing that seems more important to me than this matter to be answered is the question of post elections, which every time we had an election, was always under discussion. And every time he touched on the legislation, he tried to sort it out in some way. We all know that because of such or other wishes of individual political parties they wanted to give greater value to the voices coming from abroad, which is, of course, right and right. The question as to whether they can vote or not. I will be much happier when we all land – but I must say that some are furiously defending themselves when we mention electronic elections. With electronic elections, we would solve a lot of things and there would be no more problems — not as far as the hands are concerned, not as far as other problems are concerned. That is why we said that we would try to introduce electronic elections when we talked – and I will insist on this if we can only agree – in order to at least introduce an e-vote for elections outside the country. And on the basis of this model, we would find out very quickly whether or not this works. I'm sure it's just something we need to accept in our heads, because we know we'll always have some obstacles, and we're too old, not all of us have the same access, and so on. But even with a one-off investment, this can be arranged and the matter is arranged and in the long term cheaper, much more transparent, faster, much better processing of data and everything else that is needed. From this point of view, these are questions that are more or less right to ask and open. I believe that they will be able to resolve themselves very easily in the following way. Now, what I think is very important is that we have significantly greater progress in each debate in this type of legislation. Always. We're always making progress. If you remember, we continued to think piously of restricting our rights to officials with a legal charge. You know, at the time, it was a whole rumpum and a big hall, and the legislation ended up in the trash pretty fast, and it ended. Today we have reached one point on which we can talk about a judicial decision, which is a fundamental difference. Now we have a final act that is completed; and we know who is to blame and who is not or can perform this function. I am sure and I will repeat this over and over again; once we have worked it out, and it is right that today there are different opinions and views changing in the debate, and that it should be noted that everything that is necessary and meaningful to further improve and correct in the legislation itself, but please come with concrete arguments and not only with what you do not agree with, but how you would arrange it. At that time, we will also know what the real view and position is. And the National Assembly will not win until it has clearly set its criteria. They're gone today.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u33	Thank you. Mr Dušan Radič has the floor to prepare Mrs Ludmila Novak for her, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u34	Honourable Vice-President, Members and Members of Parliament; let me start with a little joke. I am pleased that today we can be in a well-known place, so we are in the National Assembly, at a well-known hour, it is 12 and 2 minutes, and through the well-known communication channels, i.e. microphones and, as a result, speakers, I can also express my brief reflection on this muscolo 3.0 package of electoral legislation. In addition to more or less cosmetic adjustments, we are all most interested in a chapter where it is determined who can or who cannot be or can nominate and, as a result, be elected to an individual function. The material we have received is well written down that 19 countries of the European Union have written down who can and cannot run for elections. What does that tell us? To re-invent hot water in Slovenia. Hot water was invented a hundred years ago in Chicago. In this small country of wood and water, we redefine again something completely new, who can run and what is this time, if it is six months or twelve, if it was in a car accident or anything else. Why did these countries settle this? Because they have found that political functions in all 19 countries of the European Union are reported by people who have a suspicious past. We didn't make that up, Slovenians. We have heard from the United Left today that we have the 1992 Law on Members; and only now does the Constitutional Court find that it is unconstitutional. We can ask again what this tells us about the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. I agree with Mr Möderndorfer, who says that at a time when every child – 5, 6, 7, 10 years old – has mastered the basics of IT technology. No place, but it's really not written anywhere, so the next election of e-elections could be experimental, at least. Why are we fighting this? Surely more than half of us would not sit in this national council. And I add to Mrs Anji Bah Žibert that he condemns us to have the representatives of the Udba sitting among us. And let him look around on his own side, by the way. [[advertising from the hall]] You said there were representatives of the Udba between us. [[advertising from the hall]] And finally, just for a short time, an old Latin river, which they overtook – Quod facet Iowa, non-facet boves. If we translate it, which is permitted by the gods, no cattle are allowed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor. Replica Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, excuse me, excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u36	Dude, you called me personal. I don't know, you were saying "around me" -- did you mean colleague Eva Irgle?Oh, my God! Around me. I said "in this national council." I believe I've said some hard words and some hurt very much, but God help me, that's right. That's the truth, and one day it has to come. And all those people have to face her.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u37	Thank you. Ms Ljudmila Novak has the floor to prepare Mrs Marinka Levičar for her, Mr Danilo Anton Ranc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u38	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues! The fact is that there is a wavering confidence in justice, and this is why we have been elected to the important functions of people who are sentenced to prison; but they have received a large number of votes and are elected. The problem is that in Slovenia there is a breakdown of confidence in justice. The laws must apply to all the same things, but I must say that even lawyers, we see, are a hundred percent diametrically contrary to the same law. How, then, should non-jurists understand our legislation that we are adopting? And we are already predetermined how a lawyer will decide or what opinions he will give because we know how he is politically defined. Every citizen has the right to be politically defined, but lawyers are expected to make their decisions professional and not politically conditional. And it's scandalous that we already know in advance how someone's going to decide. As a result, this lack of confidence in Slovenian justice is a result of which citizens also elect those who are condemned. Unfortunately, some of the highest judicial functions include people who have violated human rights in the previous system and would be condemned under today's legislation for lack of lustration. And that is why we will propose an amendment that prevents such people from running for various elections for different functions. That would be the only thing right and fair. Sadness or anxiety or unusualness is when I heard several statements by people in the former regime when they said: “Well, now they have power, and we have money and we don’t give them justice. Sadly, then, that is the way people think about it today. If we want to do more order in this country, we must certainly do everything in the judiciary to make this judiciary credible, so that people can trust him. The proposed laws – we will not oppose them because we know that there is a void in existing laws here, but they must be upgraded in the sense that these laws will first propose the same restrictions and that these restrictions are proportionate to the right to electoral rights or to passive and active electoral rights. The proposed laws must be proportionate to this and also in accordance with the Code of Good Practice adopted by the Venice Commission and comparable to those adopted in other countries. But when we talk about the accessibility of disabled voters, I wonder whether the disabled themselves are asking us to do as much surgery as we should have in all the voters; for example, that they can elect the blind. Is there anyone in the background who wants to do a good job with these machines? We have to ask ourselves, are we really financially capable of doing this? To see if we love at home, who controls who filled out that form — no one. Would it really not be possible for such a person to have a companion who makes a decision on his behalf? Is it really necessary that we have such expensive electoral devices that may only allow someone to do a good job? I'm in favour of all people having the same rights, opportunities, access. Unfortunately, in real life, we are often limited — like blind, deaf or other physical problems — and it is right to have the right; but it should be proportionate to financial possibilities and also proportionate to common sense.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marinka Levicar has the floor. Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc, Mr. Dragan Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good-bye, everybody! Let me begin by saying that I fully agree with all the proposed electoral legislation, especially because I think we must have a limitation on passive electoral rights in this legislation, since this ensures that candidates or people who are legally convicted will not be holders of the highest public functions. I don't think our people want that either. My colleague Dragan Matić initially said that political culture has creased that we also need these laws. I believe that the political culture among our constituents has not gone to waste, but in the case that we witnessed in this time of the National Assembly, it was an extremely strong and effective political pier. He was able to convince people that the person they were electing was not legally condemned or convicted of injustice. This led them to elect this person. Once again, in my opinion, political culture has not stepped up and I think our voters will be pleased that we will adopt such legislation, which will limit in the future the fact that important public functions are carried by persons in criminal proceedings or convicted of crimes. People don't want that. My colleague Tonin said that we should respect the people's wishes. I think that the people's wish is that such responsible functions are not people who have been prosecuted or who have been prosecuted for crimes that have been corrupt or have acted in any way contrary to existing laws. This applies to all representatives of public functions, so I fully support, as I said, the proposed package of legislation. I would also like to comment on Mrs Anja Bah's statement that this legislation is being adopted by ad persons. I am sure that the Member knows that this is not an ad person, because this legislation will apply in advance and not in return. This does not apply to their leader or to the president of the party because it is behind; what has happened has happened. And that is what I would like to say to Mrs Anji Bah when she asked how we can sleep, Members. I can say that I sleep peacefully, that it does not burden me if we had in the beginning such a debate about Ambassador Janša; for at that time he was a prisoner, he was lawfully condemned. If today is a different fact, we did not know that at the time and did what was right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Vice President. It seemed to me that it was my duty, especially in the part where Mrs Anja Bah Žibert mentioned that the Slovenian Army could not vote in the elections and that this is therefore a serious problem and that this is the biggest problem that needs to be solved in the country. Let me just say that I was a little worried, but I didn't have an answer right away. The fact is, Slovenians and Slovenians who are in the military and on missions can vote on the existing system. And to this day it has not happened that we should not vote – they have always voted. Except in one case, this is when the Slovenian army was on a mission in Kosovo. At that time, it was an internal problem within the military and information. In fact, the soldiers have to say whether they're going to the elections or not. They immediately provide them with all the necessary grounds to carry out these elections. And even in this case, when it didn't happen, then they took all the members to the Slovenian Embassy and then they held the elections. The existing legislation makes this possible and, as Mrs Anja Bah Žibert points out, this is a problem that is not. Well, they can vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u43	Thank you. Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc has the floor. Mr Dragan Matić, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat, should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings for the President, fellow Members and Members, including the representative of the Government! Maybe I'll start this discussion a little differently because I'm coming out of the economy. At the beginning of this mandate, I have found that we are dealing with a lot of things that do not concern the economic situation in Slovenia – in my opinion the most important question of how to drive Slovenia from the crisis to a better future and young people and offer us all a better perspective. Well, after the initial few months of working in Parliament, I was very disappointed, we were only talking about a topic that we are still dealing with today. Then we came into some stage of dealing with more real problems that concern all of us. Even today, after these first discussions, I am faced with this dilemma, what is the mission of the National Assembly, whose topics need to be put in order, and how to regulate legislation so that legislative errors can be corrected after 20 years. From this point of view, I see in particular that it is high time to regulate electoral legislation after 20 years, in such a way that such anomalies will not be repeated and that we will avoid similar situations in the future. From this point of view, I welcome this initiative to regulate electoral legislation in every way and will also support it. I think it is high time that we settle this and that when we discuss this topic, we do not open up some things behind us, some insults and any kind of warming; but that we focus on trying to resolve this legislation in a way that prevents similar situations. From this point of view, I note that we will also regulate legislation in terms of determining the reasons for early termination of functions for those officials for whom there is a lack of legal regulation in force – regulation of legal protection in the event of termination of the term of office. The legislation currently in force does not impose restrictions on candidates for public, loved and appointed functions in cases where an individual is convicted of a crime. The constitutional basis for restricting electoral rights is explicitly given only with regard to the election of Members; it is clear from the overall orientation of the Constitution that this constitutional power is also valid for all, including for the election of other state and local officials. I will also address these issues further. I think it is right to resolve matters at the local level, because I think there are a lot of problems there, including situations similar to those that have happened to us in the past. I estimate that in all the laws governing the conditions for the performance and termination of public functions, such an institution should be uniformly regulated. A uniform or equal treatment of comparable functions is needed, on the one hand, of loved ones and on the other, of appointed officials. The proposed amendments are in line with the proposed amendments to the Law on the State Council, the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, the Law on Elections of the President of the Republic and the Law on Local Self-Government and the Law on Members and the Law on Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Annex to the amendments to these laws lays down the conditions for inadmissibility and termination of the mandate equally for all functions and positions, which is also correct and right to settle matters from the state to the local level. As regards the election of the mayor and the municipal councillor, we have laid down a condition in the amendment of the law that one year after the suspension, the dismissal of a suspended sentence does not have the right to be loved by an individual who has been legally sentenced to unconditional imprisonment for more than six months. We have followed the reason set out in the Law on Local Self-Government for early termination of office, because in both cases it is a reason why a person cannot be a holder of a public function, it is not even possible to become a mayor or a municipal councillor. The aim of the amendment is therefore to ensure that representatives and individuals who meet at least the minimum standards of ethical and professional conduct and who will also be retained during the performance of their duties will be elected. Members of the councils of the smaller parts of the municipality under the Law on Local Self-Government are not municipal officials. However, they are subject to a different regime in the draft law, as they will attach a declaration that they have not been legally sentenced to unconditional imprisonment for an offence which is prosecuted under official duty. Such a provision is justified by the fact that such persons cannot be entrusted with the exercise of a public function because they are not worthy of public confidence, since they do not respect the basic rules of conduct in society in their own matters, and it is therefore envisaged that they should do so when it comes to the conduct of public affairs. The reason for the termination of the functions of the Municipal Councillor and the Mayor, in accordance with the amendment of the Law on Self-Government, shall be equivalent to other proposals submitted, namely, that the mayor ceases his term of office if he is permanently unable to perform his duties and is sentenced to an unqualified term of imprisonment of more than six months. I have touched on the issue at the local level a little bit, so I fully support the changes in this area as well, and I expect that this marriage solution, which is now on the table, will settle matters so that it does not allow for similar problems that have happened to us in the past. But I would be a little more specific about some of the points concerning local legislation, namely, the subject of the lists emerging, the so-called phenomenon of independent papers, which are a unique feature in Europe, which we have practically only with us, when a group, by forming a list, creates some local influence; sometimes also with methods that are at the border of corruption activities. In addition, consideration should be given to raising the threshold for entry into the municipal world to a level similar to that of the National Assembly. It might also suggest that the mandate of mayors should be limited to a maximum of two consecutive mandates. Let me conclude by supporting the proposed proposals, because I believe that we will finally regulate electoral legislation in this way. After twenty years, however, it is time to put this matter in legal order and thus ensure that there are no similar cases which in some way burden all of us and the Parliament. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr. Dragan Matić has the floor. Get Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat ready. For her, Mr. Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u46	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Respectable colleagues and colleagues. The reasons for modifying the whole type of legislation connected with the elections are unequivocally in the fall of political culture in our country. I don't think Mrs Levicar here understood me very well. I did not think that the electorates in whom political culture has dwindled, but I believe that those who in a particular political party decide who will run the elections are somehow responsible for this fall. In this context, I would like to point out that there is now a need for a legislative solution to something that has been self-evident in the past, and I will explain this further. We still have an additional fresh argument that there is an unconstitutionality of the Law on Members, which has recently been established by the Constitutional Court; and that is why legislation needs to be refined. The judgment of the Constitutional Court is based on the fact that the law does not provide effective judicial protection against the decision of the National Assembly or even deprives the affected person of such a right. Despite the fact that the issue of restricting the candidature to people who have become entangled in crime has actually been a stalemate in the legislation, as the Constitutional Court has found, this has become obvious and problematic only now — almost 20 years later. Only recently has a new practice emerged, which did not seem to be least likely for two decades. Finding a political party who would run for office for a Member who was convicted of a crime and even in prison seemed a bizarre idea all these years. This has not occurred to any political party, and gentlemen from the SDS have made this inconceivable move until then in principle – impossible. This is a completely reverse reality, as pictured by SDS Members, if the electoral legislation changes because of Janez Janša. It is not true, it changes because of the poor look of the SDS or any potential customers who would like to demonstrate themselves in the future with a weak political culture. Black SDS behaves with a long tradition and in its name exposes democracy, obviously its internal democracy is quite weak. For he answers when he speaks of their leader. In each political party, membership should overwhelm sufficient self-reflexion and self-criticism so that the champion who is convicted of crimes, however, is rounded up with chairs and functions, is told to serve a measured sentence or otherwise achieve his rehabilitation; then try to turn back on such a mammoth functional chair. The amendment of the law in the sense that it is explicitly stated that criminals cannot be Members and national or local officials has, as has already been said, become really necessary. Nevertheless, it seems personal to me that everything seems to be like the beginning of laws that people are forbidden to walk on the road after four, but that they only have to eat after two; and that the soup must be eaten with a spoon and not with their hands; or that the bishop cannot be accommodated by someone who, for example, engages in prostitution. In fact, these laws, which we are now enacting, fall into the category of unusual laws that are still in force, even though they seem quite strange, as in London, taxi drivers are forbidden by law to carry attack dogs and corpses. It's also illegal to call a cab in London if you have a plague. In the U.S. state of Alabama, however, it is illegal to drive under law with blindfolded eyes. Everything I've written down, although it is now natural for every normal person not to be allowed; it is clear that at one time it was not self-evident and all these laws were written because people who actually carried out inappropriate, discarded or dangerous practices were found. But these laws were not written for them personally, but for the sake of not multiplying or gaining copyists. Even after we change the electoral legislation, it will not be retroactive and will not bear the consequences of the ban on running for sentences that have already been passed. But it is more than obvious that by supplementing the laws we must ensure that public functions are not met by suspicious people, as the crimes are not really suitable for public functions by convicted individuals. In the debate so far, Mrs Bah Žibert explained that legislation was being adopted for Janez Janša. Mr Gorenak had previously criticised our judiciary in his opening exposition because, according to his misjudgement, especially in the case of Janez Janša; and he set an example for the Austrian and German judiciary. All the doubts that Jansho was running for SDS, although convicted, has long been the standard SDS response, that they knew he was innocent because he was condemned by the click that turned against him — Murgel’s justice, or by their perjury. These views echo the recent judgment of the Austrian court, which found that the late Mr. Zabozen has received EUR 900 000 for the SDS party. It would be interesting to hear whether Mr Gorenak believes that Austrian judges are also infected with communism and are part of the conspiracy. Too bad Mr. Gorenak isn't here. Earlier, he urged us to stay in the hall so that we could face our opinions, but he evidently has some urgent work to do now. It would certainly be interesting to know or to know where these 900 000 euros are and how the SDS used them. Perhaps it would be appropriate to launch an investigation on their own, and within the SDS, they would seek responsibility for this work, so that it would not be clear to them that money might have been spent on some political campaign and additionally infected by corrupt money with democratic political space. It seems quite amazing, though, that their leader, Janez Janša, would know nothing about where the 900 000 euros that, according to the Austrian court, actually came to the party ended. Mr Janša is a very precise man who does not leave matters to chance. I can say this from my own experience, because he taught me defence and protection not far from here at Ivan Cankar's Gymnasium; and I know him much longer than most SDS Members. To claim that he would not know that such a sum of money is coming to the party that is leading him would, in my opinion, be a rude underestimation of Mr Janša. But that's all I have to do is take him to the dam because he was my teacher, and I know he's not incompetent or capable of a lot of things. Therefore, according to the judgment of the Austrian court, the whole case is still a little less simple for Patria to be explained solely by the plot of Masleša, Murgel and so on. As far as SDS amendments are concerned with electoral legislation. Mr Gorenjak, no, pardon, Gorenak – good, because you also have problems with Berglez, Brglez and so on – suggested on the Committee on Internal Affairs and again here today that former SDV co-workers should not run for elections like those who have committed criminal acts; and that they should thus achieve lustration. This so-wanted world has played SDS, which they have longed for all these years; however, they cannot achieve it, even when they were in power, they failed. According to the idea of Mr Gorenak, lustration is intended to be performed and proved on the basis of SDV records or SDV archival material; or, more precisely, microfilm pockets recently brought back from Australia by SDS Mr Ljovic. What happened to this collection of archival materials and how it was treated and affected is unclear. Of course, such a proposal for lustration is already, in principle, unusual in the light of the discussions, whether a convicted person should be rehabilitated after six months or one year after the end of the sentence. According to the proposal of Mr Gorenak and the SDS, the former SDV co-workers should remain unrehabilitated after at least 25 years of their potential criminal acts. It's not clear how long the ban would last; it doesn't have to last forever. It would be interesting to hear what the Constitutional Court or the Ombudsman would say about this proposal. If we are already talking about such measures, based on actions at least 25 years ago, it would be much more courageous and principled for Mr Gorenak, together with the SDS, to listen to the New Slovenia proposal. The fact that all former members of the KSF or the KPC are excluded from political traffic or, if not all members, at least the officials of the Union of Communists. I would also add civil society officials and add members of the repressive authorities of the former totalitarian regime. This could be an interesting proposal that could be supported, of course, if it does not prove too drastic in terms of unconstitutionality. I don't know what my colleagues at SDS think, but that was interesting. All former party officials, ZSMS officials, SZDL – that they are excluded and cannot be loved. Because these people would be even more responsible than the SDV employees, who were mostly just providing services, decided elsewhere. However, as I said before, we could rule out the right to be loved by those who, in the former regime, wore a red star on a hat — human militia officers who closed the trustees. This would be particularly appropriate for me to consider this option. So, colleagues from SDS, think about it; but not that you are coming with amendments based on evidence based on Lajovtev's Uba.net, which does not have coders, so you cannot prove who is on those lists of victims and who is a co-worker of the SDV; that this was shown last year's trial when SDS showed in court as evidence of Lajovič's Uba.net microfilm pocket, and then lost a legal dispute with Mr. Perčič, who had previously accused him of being a doer; and consequently paid a busy purchase of money for a insulting and unrealistic accusation. This, in view of the news of profitable SDS transactions coming from the Austrian courts, may not be such a particular financial problem. Therefore, the membership of the SDV, fellow Members of the SDS, is a much more egregious basis than the record of who was a party or youth official and who was in the service of the repressive authorities of the former regime. Records of party, functionaries and repressors are much more orderly, preserved and useful for lustration. To conclude, it is necessary to limit passive electoral law, because political culture has deteriorated substantially in our time of independence – and I insist on this despite the conflicting opinion of Mrs Levičar. However, we must accept this restriction on a clear legal basis, which will apply to all civil and local level officials, taking into account all democratic standards and constitutional principles. The demoded ideological debates that defend some who have just been in a difficult situation in amending these laws, which we are talking about today, I think, are not in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u47	Thank you very much. I would like to ask you to define yourself, in future debaters, under the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Members, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Elections of the President of the Republic, the Act amending and supplementing the Law on Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Elections of the President of the Republic. In this debate and some of the previous ones there have been quite a few shifts, so in the future, I would like to ask you to define ourselves in these laws. Now he has a procedural Mr. Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u48	Thank you, President. What you said to Mr. Matić wasn't right, I have to get in his defense. He defined himself to these laws because these laws were written for John Janša. By talking about John Jansa, he spoke about these laws. I understand, Madam Vice-President, that Mr Matić has experienced this lustration clause very emotionally because we know that the son must protect the father. We know what we were able to read in the media, a member of whose job his father was supposed to be; and here I understand him. However, it does not seem right for you to allow such a debate where it says that the Slovenian Democratic Party has received 900 000 euros. My procedural proposal is, Madam Vice-President, to request an apology. The second thing is to deliver to the expert associate of the SMC Group who wrote this speech a translated judgment from the Austrian court in order to see what it says.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u49	Thanks for the tip. We're moving on. Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat, your word. Mr Franz Breznik, then Mr Mitja Horvat, should be further prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. In Slovenia, legal regulation has not so far regulated the institution of ineligible candidates for public office because they have been convicted of a criminal offence. How unusual this is, says the fact that anyone who has run for office in the public administration had to submit a certificate of impunity. So these laws are not in line with the needs of today, so I am glad that we are so far away today that we are addressing these changes and that we will also adopt the relevant conclusions. In the event of candidates running for individual political functions who have been legally convicted, they do not have enough moral respect for themselves and the electorate to do so; I think it is wrong. I suppose that when these laws were written, the writers of these laws did not consider that there would be a lack of respect for morality and culture to that extent. That is why I believe that in our country it is really necessary to finally start to respect the morality and moral values that are very important for every human being and even for the country. That is why, of course, I support these laws and, as I have already said, I am glad that we have come to this because these changes will continue to apply, there is no retroactivity; therefore, we will not discuss the question of who it concerns. It is important that we support these laws, and I will also vote today that the laws are suitable for further consideration. If you'll excuse me, I would like to draw attention to the debate that honourable Member Ludmila Novak had on interpreting the lawyers of the individual rules of law in our country. I must say that I agree with your position. I deeply agree. I have to say that as a lawyer I sometimes suffer when I read so many different opinions from different lawyers on one and the same matter. And I think that this is a more political interpretation, not a legal interpretation; because the right is an exact knowledge and, as stated in the law, it is necessary to interpret it. But when there are different interests in the back, there are also lawyers – some – only people, and they can be influenced by different interpretations. I remember myself when I enrolled in law school when the rector first told us in the morning: "Dear candidates, first think about whether you have the capacity to be an honest person all your life, because when you are a lawyer or a lawyer, you will have to represent the truth, the right and decide." This has taken me deeply into my heart, and that is why I suffer many times because I find that not all lawyers are like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u51	Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor. Mr Mitja Horvat, Mr Franz Jurša, should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I will devote my debate, at least in some segments, to some of us, a historical memory, on which this country was founded. Before me, my friend Matić spoke, I would only remind him that he will remember and that he will remember when we celebrate Statehood Day as a doctor of science does not know it yet – 25. 6. is the day of statehood. On the second day, we declared independence, on the 26th evening, when I myself was standing 200 meters away from here in the honorary company. And those two documents, which led to our independence, were the Declaration of Independence and the Fundamental Constitutional Charter. The fundamental constitutional charter in its second paragraph speaks of this, I quote: "On the fact that the SFRJ does not act as a legally regulated state and that it seriously violates human rights, national rights and the rights of republics and autonomous provinces." This was one of the main facts in addition to the collapse, the economic collapse of this country, which later proved to be, at the end of these so-called Balkan brotherly wars. As a result, we also adopted the Constitution of this country in 23 December 1991. These are the basic documents from which the Slovenian people come from, almost 90% of the citizens and citizens have decided that they want a independent and independent Republic of Slovenia. It's decided and we always have to come out of it. And now for some facts. Today we are talking mostly about passive electoral rights, we are talking about a case where an individual as a prisoner went to the elections, got over 6,000 votes and was elected. They were talking about whether the prisoner could run or not, so we're talking about some things. If Slovenia were a normal country, if the institutions of this country were to operate in Slovenia following the example of Western European countries, I confirm your opinions and I agree with that. I can say I support the legislation. Dear colleagues, my colleague Möderndorfer explained earlier, as well as some of your colleagues from the SMC, if you had been charged in 2014 or 2013 with a wife who had already arrested you in 1988, if in your case a judge of the Supreme Court had called you as a leader in North Korea; all those who support him as a nuisance, some "gamads" that is being gathered before a court. We most often forget those who have supported Mr Janša, world leaders, even a number of those lawyers who are politically interpreting the law, the top legal experts from top foreign universities, remember Mr Klemna Jaklič, a two-time doctor of science from Harvard and Cambridge, you forget the highest constitutional legal expert we currently have on a global scale, this is Dr. Vlad Peru, who is a regular professor of constitutional law at Boston College and who spoke in this case about the Bordeaux Declaration and everything else that has been violated. How many times would all these people be behind you? I declare today, I am the first to stand before the court for all of you, because the essence of the election is Ferplai, my dear fellow. This is the Ferplai we see every day in footballers, when someone falls, stumbles, someone who could attack, kicks that ball off the field, and waits for normal Ferplai to be established. This man didn't have this Ferple. At the time that you took pictures and showed up in a series of headlights, this man was, in another case, even more eloquent, driven by a hose or a combined transport vehicle before a court. And that's what's unfair. And it is precisely the case that someone was elected to bet himself and his client, that he wanted to prove that the institutions of this country do not work, that they do not act in this essence of the Slovenian State, which was written by the Basic Constitutional Charter, shows exactly that we have to go somewhere else. We must turn to some institutions that do not work in this country, which have fallen, where everything has fallen literally, has only collapsed itself; and where we have no culprit, where on the other hand we also have colleagues who are officials like us. We never ask ourselves what is wrong with people who should bear the truth and reveal it. These are journalists, this is, we could say, the fourth branch of power. These journalists and editors, among whom I find – even in these microfilms, of which we are talking today – even a number of editors, including RTV Slovenia, who worked in the State Security Service as active contributors. If we forget those inactive or reserve compositions of the State Security Service, where I see a whole series of these writings today in local journals, responsible editors. In my place, for example, there is a responsible editor of the local officer; someone who is also a doctor of science is writing history today. It's a whole bunch of these little people who make up a network that always rises up before the elections and cheats an elective body. If we come from Austria, Germany, as you say, you have seen that before the elections a party "We are all fair", without program and victory in elections is established. This means that something abnormal is happening with this country. You have a party that advocates a left-wing policy, you have a party that advocates a liberal policy, a right-wing policy; and this is it. This is how the state works, and they know what the priority of this country is, and that's how it works. Elections are important, they're a holiday of democracy. They come from the people, and we have this power, people, they're the input of democracy, and that's why it's so important. In elections, however, it is not just legislation, but it is important that all other institutions act so that two or more competitors can appear in the same beam. And electoral legislation, whatever we adopt, is not the essence of elections. It is likely that the essence of elections is that people who vote must have the best information about those people who trust their future in their hands — the future of themselves, their children, their old parents, and everything else. And people don't have that, they don't get that information. And the final example of our client, Mr Janša, shows that they do not get to exclude someone from a process that has now fallen and which has been, I can say, the smallest word is unfair. That wasn't Ferplai, I'm sorry. And I stand to see it happen to you, to each and every one of you. You are my colleagues all together, you may have better experience than me, or worse, or richer, most of the time you have different thinking; but you are my colleagues. And that this should happen to you, what happened to this man, this man stood upon the defender of the homeland, who was imprisoned in 1988, and that you come before the court and the wife of the one who imprisoned you, who committed a mass violation of human rights, write an indictment, not an accusation that we will properly express ourselves. And that you have judges whom you have or judges who have persecuted Mr. Pučnik, but today they speak and explain legal opinions. [[Incomprehensible]] I remember meeting with the late Colonel when he told me what a meeting he had here, in the congregation at that time, when he was looking at his persecutors, who then spoke to him about democracy and sat here with him. What kind of people it is, what a duplicity! What Cankar would say — what idealists they were. How many more of these Martins are there?Oh, my God! This is this duplicity, my esteemed colleagues. You all know who worked for the State Security Service. You look at the numbers -- 50 thousand, 60 thousand, one on customs, the other on SZDL. My friend Matić was talking about Janez Janša. He was with the young people. Have you ever seen his program that he wrote? He wrote that we must have a multilateral system, pluralism and everything else, which was immediately a death sentence in the then communist system, that you went to the elections with something like this. And these people who have been imprisoned have created this country. This country, as well as other countries in the former Yugoslavia, was founded on dissidents, people who had been imprisoned for decades.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u53	Dear Mr Breznik, I ask you to define yourself until the agenda item. / advertising from the hall/
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u54	Yeah, see if we're talking about electoral legislation. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u55	I was just warning you. I speak or I give my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u56	Dear Vice President, tell me as a man, as a woman, as a mother, whether it is normal for someone who persecuted these people [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u57	You can continue your debate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u58	Is it normal for someone who's been chasing these people to sit here with them today? Are you going to support this, or do you think it's normal? Is that hygienic? Is that European?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u59	Will you continue?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u60	Do these people have values? They don't! They don't. That's a normal answer. And I'm talking today about how this democracy works. One is the electoral legislation that we adopt, who can run and who can't. And today, in most of the debates, they explain to us that we advocate for prisoners to run. We did not defend this, but the electoral legislation, when Mr Janša was in these trials when he was convicted, allowed and adhered to the law. He went to the elections, got a large number of votes, and was elected Member of Parliament. We don't defend prisoners here, we don't defend them. But you need to know, the prerequisite for this to happen is that the institutions of this country must work. I have been talking about two institutions – the essence of journalism, which must be independent, which cannot be written as in Slovenia, and the essence of the judicial system that we love. And if these elections are fair, if people have information, if the output of these elections is called the result of an election, which then forms some demos, the real government of the people, the real representation of the will from the field to the parliament, then, respected colleagues, we need to know what this Ferplai means. And because these institutions don't work, there's no fairies, there's no real people here, maybe there'll be other people. Perhaps there would also be someone else instead who would be better to elect better judges, a better Ombudsman who would elect a better President of the Court of Auditors, a better Vice-President or his deputy; and all that comes out of the will of us 90 here. And that is why elections are a sensitive point, because they must be the most transparent. People must have the best information, who they elect, what their past is, how it worked in the past, why it worked that way, and what it is today. And if that's not the case, there's no real democracy. And Slovenia has no real democracy, that's my personal opinion. Part of this electoral legislation, if you accept that amendment, which I think is a minimum standard – I think that the amendment we tabled is a minimum standard that ex-partners of the State Security Service can no longer run, cannot be our colleagues. We can't give people like that a dome like that. If it goes any further, I hope you will stick to it and understand the whole essence of democracy. And that's the minimum standard, that's no lustration. It's just that we're aware of where we came from and everything I said at the beginning -- where the heart of this country is, which is why it came from, which is why it came from. So much for today. Perhaps I will come to the end, because I see that I have to explain to some the historical foundations of the creation of this country and also of Slovenian democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I would like you to explain to me the difference in the conduct of the meeting in cases where our Members are discussing, and in cases where Members of the coalition parties are discussing. For example, earlier, Mr Matić had interpreted extensively and long-standing stories, various designs, fabricated documents, statements, accused the Slovenian Democratic Party and our President of the length and breadth; you did not warn and interrupt him. He acted exactly like the method of the Udba or KOS — the secret police; he invented, fabricated, accused, and condemned in the end. And if this is how you intend to conduct the meeting, then quote the provision of the Rules of Procedure, which is the basis for this way of working. Or perhaps you have some secret rules of procedure in the National Assembly during this term, since some things are completely different. So I can just explain to myself this way of doing things this way. I propose to you, Madam President, as has already been proposed in one of the procedural proposals, that those who have spent this item on the agenda should bring at least the documents which are the basis for their statement. Otherwise, I suggest that you suspend the meeting if it is necessary to ensure this. But if you can't do that, then I suggest to those gentlemen who are talking about a convict who, on the basis of the Constitutional Court, is justifiable to apologize – at least what it is. Today, there is no one in this State Assembly who has been legally condemned. Or he was, but he was wrongly convicted. Instead of accepting and discussing today the problems that have led to the criminal conviction, you are talking about sanctions against the person who has been wrongly convicted and you are accusing him. This was done by the secret services of the socialist countries until these systems collapsed. Only with us is this story, and this principle continues. Nowhere else in a democratic Europe – not in Lithuania, not in Poland, not anywhere else, but in us. I suggest that you ensure what I have proposed. Firstly, in the management of the meeting and, secondly, to provide documentation which is the basis for such foolish statements. This is also your task so that we can bring this meeting quietly and wisely to [[sign for the end of the debate]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Just an explanation at this first point, which you gave, I gave Dr. Matić a warning that he should be defined up to the point of the agenda which he is; there were earlier departures from the item on the agenda. Mr Breznik also began quite a long way from the agenda, but I let him speak; and I further decided that he should be specifically defined by the agenda item. I suggest we move on. Procedurally, Mr. Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u64	Thank you very much, ma'am. There were two suggestions. One is fair and fair management of the session and you do not do so because Mr Matić spoke continuously for about 20 minutes. My friend Beznik was interrupted in the meantime, and there's probably going to be a lot more because you've turned this thing around. And secondly, I have suggested that you suspend the meeting unless you can provide otherwise until you deliver what Mr Matić has been talking about. He, his delegation, can deliver the President of the National Assembly, I do not care who, former SFRJ members who may also be in the National Assembly; some of them can receive it even from their fathers; but they can deliver these matters. Let them deliver so that we can have a discussion and talk about it. I propose that we follow procedural proposals in order to first decide and remedy matters following one procedural proposal, and then move on. We demand, we demand documents! I propose or require you to deliver documents so that we can speak and discuss at this point of the agenda on the structures, lies and other instigations, burdensome evidence on the basis of which you have conceived your debate and obviously this package of laws. We are not talking here about goat accusations, as they are now happening and which is the basis for this marriage package; we want facts. Kozlov's business is slow enough. If you're thinking about taking this thing forward, then all mercy is worth it. That's what we think! But I want the documents, ma'am, to ensure that if you can't do it now, stop the session, bring it to the table, split it up, and then we'll have a debate that we'll all have the same credible documentation in our hands. As I suggested or said, those who had access to or even have access to the archives of the secret police. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] But perhaps they shall bring something at home; but if they should not go to their fathers, aunts, uncles, and so on. Ma'am, that's my suggestion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u65	Thank you. Procedurally, Mr Jani Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Vice President. This exercise is now well known. When the arguments run out, then we go to some process stories that don't have a head or tail. I'd like to ask the vice president, it's about the next topic. From this point of view, we are already used to getting certain accusations that there are a couple of hoodlums sitting here and so on. The story was also repeated in the previous term. Ambassador Jerk Čehovin was convicted of being a member of the Secret Service and had to go so far as to prove that by presenting the authorities, they proved that this was not true; that is, they were lying. And I ask you kindly to stop this monada of procedural stories because they are interfering with what is called a debate on legislation. When there's no argument, let's do this exercise. And I ask that in the procedural proposals made by my colleague Tanka, once again you realize that this is a waste of three minutes that I never use in the procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u67	Thank you. Mr Fran Breznik has the first procedural proposal, please. It's a replica. No, it's not a procedural replica. Mr. Tanko, a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u68	Ma'am, this is now a request, not a proposal. I gave you this proposal for the first time, and you obviously have different instructions, and you don't follow that. Now I demand and insist on the delivery of the documentation which was the basis for the prosecution of our party, our fellow Members and my President, too; and this is what I want to do on the table. This is your responsibility to ensure. One historian who doesn't even know when a state holiday is and what it's called is talking about many things that are characteristic of this country's secret services. Here I will also read the Supreme Court's judgment: today it is known that this service not only dealt with intelligence tasks but also organized various criminal activities itself, deliberately challenged them – what also happened here – and also constructed the existence of crimes – which was also said and done here – and also determined responsibility for them – as was said here. To this end, it has also falsified, fabricated or suppressed burdensome evidence, which was also done here. Victims of such activities, usually political opponents or otherwise thinking – which apparently also exists here – were generally not able to disclose the documents of the Resurrection and Rehabilitation during the period of the regime, which is what you want to do and ensure. In order to continue the debate, we want information, documents on what Mr Matić said; very properly requested on our part. We don't want anything else. Documents to know whether what has been said exists; whether what has been said is the only reason and argument for proposing this package of electoral legislation. I would expect them to propose a change to the judicial package of legislation, where those who do not fall under the Constitution, because they violate human rights in their proceedings as prosecutors or judges, would deal with these cases. Instead of listening to a goat clan like this for a while. Madam, I propose the suspension of the meeting, I do not know, for half an hour and I request documentation that was the basis for the statements, I do not know, Comrade Matić probably. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u69	Once again, Mr Tanko, we are at the point of the general debate on electoral legislation. What Dr. Matić discussed at this time is his business whether he will provide the material or not. I suggest we proceed, Mrs. Masters. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Please specify in which part of the procedure. [[advertising from the hall]] Procedurally, Mr Tanko, by specifying in concrete terms what kind of procedural proposal you are proposing.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u70	Madam, if you will read the Rules of Procedure carefully, you must give me a word in the event of a procedural proposal as soon as I request it; no matter what Mr Möderndorfer thinks, which, by the way, does not know the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u71	Peace in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u72	I requested that you deliver the documentation which was the basis on which Mr Matić referred to it, based the debate on it, and charged the Members of my parliamentary group, the President, also me – although I was never in the Udba and the Secret Service, nor convicted or tried for any matter at this time – to deliver it. If you cannot do so immediately, cancel the session for half an hour, you can do more if you want; but deliver it. Clearly, Mr Matić's debate, or what Mr Matić said, was a fundamental basis for you to prepare this package of electoral legislation. It's not in the material, by the way. And he's not the only one who referred to it. Mrs Kozlovich also talked about this, and others have already talked about it, in the views of the parliamentary groups. So put on the table what you have to do to be able to discuss this, otherwise it's some defamatory society that talks long and hard about things that have absolutely nothing to do with the agenda. That's our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u73	Thank you. Procedurally, Jani Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u74	Vice President, what he's trying to do with the excellent maneuvering of his colleague Tanka is to convince you that you have something to decide. True, you can decide that the debate will continue. Nowhere in the Rules of Procedure is it written, and quote, Comrade Tanka, that the President must suspend the meeting in order to provide material on something someone is saying. Your colleague, Ambassador Anja Bah Žibert, claimed foolishly that Slovenian soldiers could not vote. She lied or made it up or messed up; and she didn't do it. And don't talk nonsense, according to your logic, the chairman should interrupt the session and prove here whether it's true or not. It's a pure fiction. And you, Vice-President, have every right, because in the course of time, you interpret the Rules of Procedure and you don't need to propose. Decide that the debate will take place further, and this will be the end of the debate. My procedural proposal is very clear – make your decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u75	Thank you. The text shall be delivered by the proposer, Mrs Mag. Lilliana Kozlovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u76	Thank you, Madam President. To put the debate back on the table, I also volunteered to return to the law itself or to what the proposal for regulation is. First, I would explain what Mr. Tonin asked earlier, how we think or what we are. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u77	Mrs. Lilliana, just a moment. Our technology's a little off limits. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u78	Thank you. I would like to explain how we understand the legal consequences that should continue to apply after the time of the sentence or after the expiry of the sentence. When we regulate the legal consequences of the conviction, it is actually a special law; that is, a special Penal Code that we must follow. On the basis of the general code, the legal consequences are to be applied five years after the expiry of the sentence, shortly after the rehabilitation. This is actually a decision we're going to make, we're going to propose a year. How long should this legal effect continue to apply – we have proposed that this is one year, because we know that those crimes, which are punishable from one to three years, are subject to the legal consequences of another year. We propose that this should also apply in these cases, but of course this may still be the subject of discussion. This is actually a political decision as to how long it should be. However, I would like to highlight another issue, or one of the arrangements that has not been discussed today, and I would like to take a position in the next debate of the other political parties. In regulating the limitation of electoral rights, its essence is to limit self-candidate. I don't think that's the issue, but the question is, and we settled that moment after the candidacy, if someone's in the process, it's from the time of the candidacy to the confirmation of the mandate itself. It was necessary to address this issue, and here we propose in such a case, and we have also amended a certain article in the event of such a situation, added the right of appeal to every electorate, because it has the right as an active electorate to demand a certain degree of integrity and that such a person is not granted a mandate. If the State-election commission finds that it has been duly elected, that there have been no infringements, then it shall issue a certificate; the National Assembly shall then determine, on the basis of the complaint, whether such a mandate shall be confirmed. What has been regulated in the Law on Elections to the National Assembly so far, it states and states that if the National Assembly does not approve the term of office, the elections shall be repeated. This arrangement also applies to this case, even though we have heard or prepared ourselves to think that it may be too severe a measure; perhaps it is also an object to be discussed. The question, which is also contained in the Constitution, in the third paragraph of Article 82, which has not been settled for twenty years, will have to be settled sooner or later, as lawyers have pointed out, is a matter of electoral dispute. It is a right that all voters have to demand that certain elections be annulled due to irregularities. We still have an obligation, which is enshrined in the Constitution, to appoint a constitutional or electoral judge. So much for now, then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The word has Dr. Mitja Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u80	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. I have already thought about reacting if it is not desirable for me to perform something, then I would gladly give up the word; but I am so glad that the procedural problems have been resolved and that we can continue with today's meeting. The package of electoral legislation before us is, on the one hand, the result of a major, difficult, obviously legal problem. However, because I would not want to talk so much about the legal problem, but about the political problem, simply because we were also faced with calls for political responsibility in the decision. The package that we have before us, at least to some extent, has come as a result of the questions and discussions we had at the beginning of the mandate, with a number of other issues raised. When we were already at work, in particular as regards the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, which is still a fundamental law and is also applicable in other areas, if issues are not settled; therefore it is also the main electoral legislation in this package. Don't confuse the issue, which is mostly highlighted by all the debaters. Let me support the words of the proposer, who is trying to direct us to the debate on a comprehensive proposed regime, i.e. a whole series of actions, actions, actions of the authorities in relation to the elections. Let me express here my personal pain, which I feel throughout my professional activities – why we actually have official records. As a colleague from Nova Slovenije said, that these records are not always accurate, we cannot rely on them. At the time of preparation, too, questions were raised as to whether we could use the state official records that we have at our disposal to raise questions about the elections. So much so that it does not remain unspoken, because the debate goes in a completely different direction, at least in general and mostly. My firm belief is that we have records to use. And who should use them if not state authorities. Of course, this must be done with care. Of course, there are issues in this regard that are regulated by the Personal Data Protection Act and the Public Information Access Act. However, at this point, I should really like to point out that records which should not be used by public authorities because of obstacles which are in such laws that protect an individual or guarantee a guaranteed right under the Constitution must not be an obstacle to the functioning of public authorities. I hope that attention will also be focused on the other things that are proposed to improve the certain inconsistencies that we have encountered in practice so far, even in practice. Even in my time, I have come across a question in this regard. It is therefore appropriate to do so in the other laws less than the provisions that we are amending, and in fact they are mostly concerned with the fundamental, fundamental issue which the Constitutional Court has drawn attention to in some of its decisions. It is simply a question of the absence of an insolvency regime in our legal order. It is interesting, however, that the Constitutional Court relied on a non-existent institution in the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia in the current decision, which is the most debated today, when it said that the inadmissibility, which is such an important institution of electoral law and is in itself such a serious intervention in a passive electoral right, should be explicitly and unequivocally regulated by law. You should be! Then, of course, he says that in the National Assembly, we have unduly intervened in the right of the complainant, when we have extended inadmissibility even for a time before the elections. One more thing that I can't get past, so at this point I have to react, i.e. point 16 of the decision number U-I-227/14-13 and Up-790/14-37 of 4. 6. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In point 16, under B-II, of the reasoning, the Constitutional Court argues that "although effective judicial protection would also require an assessment of the legality and regularity of the contested decision", there is much debate in the last year in the National Assembly and also today, "the Constitutional Court will continue to consider the complainant's application as a constitutional complaint". Here we have some problems, and it will be even more obvious that the Constitutional Court, at point 5 of the same decision, states that the National Assembly in response has only stated its views on the initiation of the constitutional procedure of the Law on Members. It's not what I think it is, because we're in the National Assembly, on the Mandate-Election Commission with the final date of 11. 12. 2014 and at the meeting of the National Assembly, formed document No 020-02/14-65/10 of 23 July 2014. 12. 2014 and forwarded to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court has ignored the existence of our reply to the constitutional appeal in its decision. Why, I don't know, and the Constitutional Court doesn't say it either. It is simply a matter of ignoring our reply and therefore it is not in the Constitutional Court's decision to take into account the arguments given in our reply regarding the constitutional complaint – as regards the language interpretation, the logical interpretations, including the systematic and final telelogical interpretations of the matter. The question that we cannot unite in any way, and I absolutely agree with the Pre-Priest who spoke about the fact that we lawyers are very different, that we have different opinions and that we also know how to find different arguments and grounds for our decisions. In this case, however, I should be allowed to give up a bit of legal thought at a given time and ask myself what is the meaning of the provision which states that the mandate will end if it is convicted. Does this really mean only if he is convicted during the term of his term of office, to which those who argue the decision that the National Assembly did not do the right thing base their decision?Oh, my God! If it were so obvious, then the Constitutional Court probably wouldn't have taken that long. In particular, it should not avoid the answers to the questions that we have drawn up as arguments in the Mandate-Election Commission, as well as in the National Assembly. But it was true that something had to be done. Of course it is true that this was not an election dispute. It is true that then it is a bit more difficult to work if the initiator refers to one article and then the Constitutional Court will base its decision on another Article of the Constitution, and then there is something to be done about specific matters. In this case, I believe that, if there was any collegiality between lawyers, the Constitutional Court could have chosen slightly different words; thus, it chose such words as had fuelled advocates of such a decision by the Constitutional Court to now accuse and call upon all concerned. I can tell myself that I take political responsibility proudly and rebelliously in front of all those voters and voters who consider the conduct of the National Assembly to be correct under the circumstances. Of course, I understand and I feel terrible about all the pain and all the damage that your client and your president have done in the past year. But on the other hand, let me point out that far from being able to get him out of the pre-election game. Moreover, he had most of the media space because media attention focused on his position, regardless of what the reasons were and what the comments were about it. Talking about someone being expelled will be a little harder to convince everyone in a political sense. If I turn back on words and I can understand the actions and words of everyone in this regard, because the gentleman has also said publicly that he respects but does not take the decision of the court; and that he will therefore use all legal and political means. And them. For no one interferes with the use of all legal and political means in their own proof that "criminal justice" has committed its actions with all of them, then with the various information that we are disseminating, and with the respiration of the importance of individuals or institutions, which is by no means good. I think it should be avoided. And these are the real reasons why we are proposing a package of electoral legislation – do not fight or target individuals. You know well that I have always insisted on terminology issues at the beginning of every session; and unfortunately no one hears. The problems with the Slovenian language that I am not talking about the law at all have remained. The media and you keep reporting the seizure. No one took anything away, the National Assembly did not decide to withdraw the mandate, but it was a question of whether or not to respect the law we have before us and what its content is. For if the consequences of the law were not respected and properly followed, it would mean ignoring the law. A legal arrangement we didn't set up in our coalition. The legal regime, which has been in force all the time, which we live in the free and democratic Republic of Slovenia, and which has also been prepared by your President. We've read the magnetograms, not a word of it. More! When you look at the debates, it was more a question of the opposite. There was certainly no question whether a person convicted may be a Member of Parliament or not may exercise the mandate of a Member of Parliament. That wasn't even a question. The question was simply whether there was any possibility that certain convictions would not be so fatal as to result in the termination of the mandate. While only the termination of a mandate in any combination before the election shall be said at the time of the candidacy, or after the election, not a word in the magnetogram. Not a word about that, I'm afraid, in explanation of the bill. In short, it was a question that did not at all seem to be an important question. It is only in the last five years that we have been dealing more seriously with the issue of inadmissibility. In my profound belief, if we went the other way, there would be a shadow of doubt. The path we took in the National Assembly led us to some new knowledge; sadly, not all that we expected. We have made very clear to the Constitutional Court whether the conduct of the National Assembly was in a procedural sense correct. We didn't get that answer. We can continue to believe that we have two different cases, that we have acted in two different ways. We don't have an answer to authority whether our conduct was right or not. However, I think that the Constitutional Court in this part should play its role and answer all the questions, all the dilemmas that have been put before them. This is what we want and, in particular, given the time taken by the Constitutional Court in such a case where it is necessary and, according to our proposal, to act swiftly, within 30 days at the latest, the Constitutional Court should jump to the aid and offer in defence of such an important constitutional issue some more guidance on how to proceed in the future and how to shape our legal order. Whether this or what we have proposed makes this arrangement better, clearer; I will not judge. I believe it is. We've been thinking. We've submitted as best we can. A proposal that we believe to answer essential questions. We will be grateful if we can cooperate constructively and come to such a text that everyone will understand what is right and what is wrong. In this part too, I ask you, in view of the exercise of the Constitutional Court as well, if you read what the initiator and the complainant in his initiatives and complaints applied to what he was relying on his decisions. And if you look at the next path and the grounds that have been taken, please, let's stop this debate about the time of the elections, that this is an election dispute, which we have decided and which has been reached by the National Assembly. In our dreams, we didn't have anything of this in mind to interfere in any way with the will of the electorate. When I talk to her, by the way, I understand you're using a number that's absolutely significant, and no one has ever said it's the biggest election circuit. There it is easier to get a larger number and the largest number of voters. Look at the percentages, rejuvenate, and you will find that in the same constituency our Members have also received more votes than Mr Janez Janša. So much for the thing of legitimacy and the weight that this question has for us. Of course, we respect all of this, and in principle we did not pay more than so much attention and object. We respect your arguments, so we also ask that you respect our arguments, that you answer them, but not with a variety of pretenses, calls that limit your dignity. I believe that we will be able to resolve certain issues that have been raised jointly and that we will be able to know what our system is. And as a cherry on a cake, finally, let me add – I am looking for a hero who will tell me how a prisoner who stops executing a sentence in the National Assembly is also exercising his right to annual leave. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor. Procedurally, please, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Chairman. My name has been mentioned several times by the proposer. This is not a problem; however, the problem is that, as the first-signed candidate, he already declares things that are not real. And not just that, talk about lying. And in that he mentioned my name.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u83	I would like to ask for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u84	It's a procedural proposal; please, if you let me finish, don't be so impatient. It's about asking for an apology, because in my debate, it wasn't a lie. And when I talked about elections abroad, as far as soldiers are concerned, it's still quite real, Mr. Möderndorfer. It's so real! You know, the mission isn't just in Kosovo. Missions were elsewhere, including in Afghanistan. Believe me, I know exactly what I'm saying. And that is why, Madam President, I request an apology. And please, I'm not going to give you any evidence of that. Ask yourself, you had one period even a minister of your own kind. But let me help you, it wasn't during this period. Please, President, I request an apology, for no one in this National Assembly will address me as a liar. And neither is that he's going to demand evidence from me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u85	I cannot ask Mr Jani Möderndorfer to do this. He will do so; if he thinks that your information is correct, he will do so; but if not, of course, I cannot interrupt the meetings of the National Assembly or in any way ask the Member to do so. Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to my friends and friends! For a while, I listened to all these discussions. I must say that I have listened carefully to some things, especially those political issues and some of these technical issues. Since Dr Horvat spoke in the debate about some technical solutions to the law, changes to the law, I will not do this myself, because in some way I trust those who have prepared the proposal. I must say that these changes in laws are not very broad and are not largely changed in terms of articles. It is true, however, that these are very crucial changes that touch on all these important functions in the country. I will personally say that I will support the laws mainly because in the 1990s this law was written, and there have been many changes. At that time, no one thought that certain matters in electoral laws could be so complicated or so changed that they should be resolved perhaps substantially earlier. To be honest, I am personally concerned with Janez Janša, and this change would not be necessary, even though Janez Janša would not be and all the events surrounding it would be necessary. But it's true, of course, that in the SDS client you see the real reason in this. Maybe it's a certain reason, but for me, I have to say, it wasn't personal; I mean, in support of the law. As far as morals are concerned. Anyone running for this segment must be very sensitive. It was also mentioned in the presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups that all those wishing to serve in the public sector should also submit a certificate of their impunity. It is right that we, who are here in our seats and represent people, each of our constituencies and beyond, should also not be punished. Well, if we are, unfortunately we can't do the function we want to be in. We just can't. But it is true that there is no or very low level of political hygiene in our country, and standards are appropriate. In this whole case, the most important institution is the limitation of passive electoral rights. I will say this, partly agree or agree with those who have doubts about confidence in our Slovenian justice. Yes, there are concerns here, and we really need to resolve these concerns in the future so that there will be no such thinking. It's not easy to do. It's very difficult, because if it's in fact, in a human being, the fact that the justice system sucks, that's what's left of it. I'm saying that it's not totally crap, but that in a certain part you should make certain changes. You know when we talk or you talk about lustration. That's one question that's kind of touching me personally, and I'm thinking. All those of us in the previous regime, we lived in it because we were so old and we were doing something there. I do not consider anything bad to Mr Janša that he worked in the Union of Socialist Youth of Slovenia; but he worked a little later than me because I am a little older. From this period, I can say that I have been doing good for young people, for society as a whole, but that which was then, I have done nothing wrong. And then why would it be necessary to mirror?Oh, my God! I'll tell you now. Lustration – whether it be ritual cleansing of sins or whether it be verification and removal from the public political life of those who were in the service of totalitarian regimes. It's a notion of lustration. It's a notion of lustration. Open up on the computer, see what that means; and that's it. Then I'd add some more pussies and maybe some more words. Some would like to hear that word very much. I think we are still a democratic society, even though many in this Chamber say we are not. But it is true that we may not have democracy at the level they have in those countries where this democracy is a series of years. Another song about the members of the Udba. Who was the associate of the Udba? Not the one you think Udba told the employee that France was cursing the same regime at that inn. This wasn't an associate of the Udba. The associate of the Udba was the one who signed the Udba to cooperate with him. It would be very good if we were thinking in this direction and we were also treating people as a co-conspirator of the Judgment when he signed a declaration that he would also cooperate with the Udba.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Gorenak, procedurally, because you haven't discussed it yet. [[advertising from the hall]] Don't judge. The one who discusses can also argue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u88	Thank you for the update, Mr. Jursha. You explained it right because people have the wrong idea. Only those who signed that he would work for money or out of consciousness; only those who would be counted. That's one. And second of all, I think it's important, but that's it. I didn't use the word lustration, and I had very clear intentions. I didn't use it. It is only to prevent candidates who have done what you have said – whether they have been employed or have signed cooperation. It's not about lustration as it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The word has Mrs. Janja Sluga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u90	Dear Vice President, Government Representative, colleague and colleague! The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides, in its 82nd Article, for restrictions on the right to vote with Members. The Constitution states as follows: The law determines who must not be elected as a Member. And that is exactly what we have been up against in the preparation of the proposals for amendments to the laws that are currently on the agenda. We believe that it also makes sense that such a provision is applied equally to all holders of public functions. As we have already identified and said several times today, the central change proposed to limit passive electoral rights is the right to be elected and the right to exercise the mandate obtained in elections. We have heard this a number of times in Europe today, one of the few countries that does not have such restrictions. Germany, to which we like to refer and follow it, has also found that it has even more stringent restrictions. For there the loss of the ability to perform a public function or the loss of the right to be loved in public elections can take place in two ways. One is – the ability to lose because of a conviction for a more serious crime of deprivation of liberty which is not less than one year, including an unconditional conviction; and in this case, the period of limitation of passive electoral rights lasts for five years. On the other hand, the court may prohibit the exercise of a public function and the ability to be loved if the law expressly so provides. In both cases, the minimum penalty shall be established by law and the loss of capacity may take between two and five years. Therefore, because it also includes unconditional convictions, as I have already said, in this case a much more stringent regime is proposed today in this package of amendments to electoral legislation. Election rights are human rights, of course, and therefore we have been particularly careful in limiting them. Human rights restrictions are permissible only if they interfere with the rights of others and if the basis for their restriction is laid down in the Constitution. The constitutional basis in this case is, as I have already mentioned, Article 82. It is essential that the conditions for the performance and termination of public functions be laid down in all laws governing the conditions for the performance and termination of the functions of the elected officials. However, the same restrictions would also be imposed on appointed officials, where such arrangements do not interfere with passive electoral law, since they are, as it were, designated functions. This measure should have been adopted in law 20 years ago. A number of decisions of the Constitutional Court have already made this point. It is therefore a legal void that we can therefore consider to be unconstitutional and must be regulated for that reason alone. And the other reason is that we think it's right. For these reasons, we therefore propose that an individual who is legally sentenced to unconditional imprisonment for more than six months cannot perform his or her duties. This means that he cannot run for election or be elected, not become or remain an official. The six-month prison sentence has been adopted and also enforced in the field of labour and law. It exists as a standard, and people have accepted it. A public servant who has been sentenced to such a penalty, i.e. the employment relationship, is terminated. A public servant loses his job and a Member not a Member of Parliament. The proposed penalty is also proportionate to the objective to be achieved, namely to ensure the integrity of elected representatives of the people; and, on the other hand, to ensure the integrity of the electoral process itself. In this way, only those with an internal value system, moral and legal principles, and above all – and which I personally consider essential – responsibility to voters, citizens and citizens can be elected to the highest functions of power. A person who is legally sentenced to such a punishment cannot be worthy of public confidence. Even in his own affairs, such a person does not respect certain fundamental rules of conduct in society; how he would only act in the management of public affairs, as such, of course, could not act as an appropriate representative of the electoral body. And the representatives of the elective body are all sitting here, whether one of us got 6,000, 3,000 or 700 votes. All the rights to exercise the sent-mail mandate of those sitting here are exactly the same. No one is stronger, no one is weaker, no one has more right to sit here, but someone less; but everyone is the same. The central law, which is the basis for all other changes, is the Law on Elections to the National Assembly. And if I refer to the Government Act, then we're talking about the Prime Minister of the Government and the ministers. The current Government Act does not contain any conditions in this respect as are now proposed. And as I have already said, this is not an intervention in passive electoral law in this case, because the candidate for President of the Government to the National Assembly is put to the election by the President of the Republic and the ministers are appointed and dismissed by the National Assembly on the proposal of the President of the Government. Following a proposal from the Government Act, only one who is a national of the Republic of Slovenia, who has reached the age of 18 on the date of election or appointment, will be able to run for President of the Government or Minister. We have already mentioned this, however, that we will unify the matter for six months. Under the same conditions, either the President of the Government or the Minister shall also cease his duties. Here, however, it is also important to note Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which stipulates that, with the termination of the office of President of the Government, the office of Minister shall also cease. Following this proposal, the Court is obliged to refer such a legal decision to a non-conditional prison sentence of more than six months to the National Assembly, which concludes that the reasons and functions of the President of the Government or the Minister have ceased in the law. In its opinion, the Government raised the question of how the President of the Government or the Minister, who is legally sentenced to a term of imprisonment not exceeding six months, will perform his duties at the time of the end of the sentence. I believe that the thought is justified and I agree with it. I think it makes sense to think about that too. In this case, the restriction should be stricter, i.e. a criminal conviction of any kind. This is the subject of a continuation of the legislative procedure, which I think we will need to consider reaching some agreement. Insufficiency to a certain function for beloved officials is, by its nature, a legal consequence of conviction and not punishment, but a foreign measure; therefore it must be prescribed by law and must be proportionate in particular. Therefore, if we are talking about elective functions, the six-month prison sentence is proportionate. In doing so, our proposal does not distinguish between pretense and negligence, which has already been exposed today. This is because we believe that there is such a high degree of negligence in a crime committed out of negligence and that the sentence imposed is incarcerated, even for more than six months, and there is probably some aggravating circumstance that such a measure is proportionate and appropriate. And if a traffic accident was mentioned here as an example, let me say that we checked the data and that the drivers of traffic accidents are largely sentenced only to conditional penalties, which are shorter. And personal reflection on all the obvious that the whole legislation is prepared for the sake of one person. As has already been pointed out, there is a prohibition of retroactivity in our legal system, which means that this package will not apply to this particular person. Believe it or not, we did not really propose this package in order to eliminate this particular person. For if I occasionally take a look at my left at the meetings of the National Assembly, even today, I can see that in more than 90% of these seats are empty. I don't know if this person is getting expelled by herself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u92	President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I am only partially satisfied with the adoption of this legislation. Partly because I'm also sad that it's even necessary to accept it. Today we have heard good examples from fellow Matic from other countries. I think there was a federal state in America where it's forbidden to drive a car with its eyes tied. In fact, we today accept something similar; but we are forced to do so. We are forced to do this primarily because of things that have happened to us in the near past. We are not just talking about one Member, we are also talking about other political officials. These cases have shown that there is no need to rely on any kind of self-criticism, not on people or on customers, but on the need to regulate the matter at the level of law. I believe that this law, or this package of laws, will contribute to the fact that similar stories will no longer happen to us to that extent. Why did I say it like that? Because I'm sure, or I suspect, or I'm guessing that there's still going to be some kind of excess. He warned his colleague about the problem of justice. We do have a major problem with this, and I mean not only from the first stage to the Supreme Court, but to the judiciary, together with the Constitutional Court, if it is possible to count it in this respect within the framework of justice. Since we obviously do not have any uniform practice, the Constitutional Court obviously does not give signals to the regular judiciary as to how to judge certain matters, and then there is a case to come before the Constitutional Court and it falls. And this legislation will not solve such cases. Even if the Constitutional Court had confirmed the judgments of previous courts, the case could have been annulled. This is not possible, but the case would, for example, be found in the European Court of Justice as a violation of fundamental human rights. I want to say that all cases will not be resolved by this legislation. It will not solve cases where, for example, there is no evidence that someone committed a crime; in this case, it is considered innocent. Such a conclusion also leads to the fact that this legislation is not ad to persons. It's not. The predecessor of this package of legislation is Mr Muscolo; it is a working name, I do not know who could be identified with this. If we go back a little bit to the Law on Members. The Constitutional Court, in its last decision concerning Member Janez Janša, found that his constitutional rights had been violated, that he was an unconstitutional Law on Members. This is the law that was passed in 1992. And in 1992, when this law was passed, there were only two Members of Parliament today, Mr Janša and Mr Battelli. If they had adopted an unconstitutional law at the time, as the court has only found now, it is not possible to go to anyone in this mandate, to any Member. We need to know that we had our first regular session, where we confirmed our mandates, and also Members of the SDS, as in that Quick Toes game, confirmed these mandates. And you found out they were super legal. Some implementation now about whether they are not and the question of if they are constitutional are entirely unfounded. If I go back to this constitutional decision. It also follows from the Constitutional Decision that, even in the case of Happy Friends, this was constitutionally questionable, because he also did not have that possibility of appeal, as the Constitutional Court had said, that it should be legislated in the Law on Members. That is why I believe that this legislation will be a step forward. And I have no doubt that we will all support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Ange Logar, get Mrs. Anita Kolesh ready. Mr. Logar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u94	Thank you, Chairman. My predecessor is sad that this law is being passed today and this debate is taking place; it is he who is proposing this law. Understand who can. If I begin with the words of Mr Zorman, colleague of Zorman, who said that we are a society of high moral values and a high political culture. Are we? Now, hypothetically, let's take the case, for example, the president of a party is requiring, I don't know, an agreement to some constitutional law by appointing a government to some very important function. Will this then, for example, if such a case occurs, then Members of the SMC will spend 120 minutes of their time saying that it is a depraved political practice; or will they then remain silent and support the proposal that the government will propose. The Mauritian coalition that proposes this law has one major problem. They want to change the electoral law because of the JJ case, but they want it to not look like they're changing it because of him. Evidence – no member of the coalition has today avoided the word of John Janš, or leader of the opposition, or president of the SDS. Not one. And you're talking about how we want to bring this subject into this electoral law. We know that this proposal for this legislation is the neutralisation of some unfavourable situation faced by the Mauritian Coalition and some regret following the decision of the Constitutional Court that left you in the legal clearst; even if Mr Horvat today exercises so enthusiastically with his legal locks. Is this proposal changing or is it because of Mr. Janez Janša here on the table? I say, form your own opinion, and allow me to quote some of the words of my colleagues from the Turkish coalition during November or October when it was decided on the mandate of one of the 90 Members. Mr. Brglez, President of Parliament, is 15. Ten. 2014 said when it was decided to exclude Janša from Parliament: "The meaning of this point is that I leave what I normally am and do not comment on what I do not need to comment on; but this time it is necessary to clearly define." Mr Mitja Horvat, leader of the MVK, look at this statement: "Perhaps in a certain way the subject of today's debate and decision-making is also my reason for inclusion in political life." The mandate of one Member was clearly a reason for someone to be involved in political life. And first, Brglez: "In this case, even if there is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it is not such a violation, which will also constitute a violation of the Constitution, so I believe that, in view of the whole case, the Constitutional Court will also not annul the decision of the National Assembly." Yes, it is; but there was a problem. And when we have repeatedly warned that the previous legal basis does not allow the withdrawal of the mandate, you have convinced us exactly the opposite. The leader of the SMC Group of Members shall be 15. Ten. She said, "The standards just mentioned should be so self-evident in terms of the nature of the sentinel function that they are not only inappropriate, but also inappropriately defined only with a firm legal norm." So you are now serving an unseemly principle and will define this upright norm. Or Guchek Zakošek: "In fact, I wonder whether the only way for the country is to constantly change the laws and the Constitution just to ensure that they are not violated, and that we will always seek ways to avoid them. My answer is, no; for such a way is disastrous; and I ask you to get us out of this way." So now, with this proposal, Mr. Muscolo, have you chosen a disastrous path? Or Mrs Kozlovich, who was very loud today: "Even though the Constitutional Court will decide in its weighting that the right of a Member is over his duty, and has annulled the decision, it will not be possible for the majority of us Members, a thousand, ten thousand, one hundred thousand voters." You understand where I'm going. Then Mrs Kozlovich tries to devalue us or deprive us of our legitimacy in what we say, in a law that we do not even oppose, with one such position, when he says that only 0.8% of the voters voted for Mr Janša. But, I'm sorry, Mrs. Kozlovich, it was 0.5% for you. Mr Horvath, who had previously replicated and talked about relativity, Mr Horvath, elected 0.4% of the voters for you; however, you had the legitimacy to speak. Therefore, once again, this proposal – which the SDS Group does not oppose, the SMC Group has the feeling that it has to speak for 120 minutes, and is dedicated to this debate all day – is therefore directed at one another; you have answered yourself with your own discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mrs. Kozlovich, please, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u96	I'd just like to replicate. It's true, Mr Logar, I said wrong, it's not 0.8%, it's 0.3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u97	Replica [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Procedurally, please, Mr. Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Please, President, ask Members not to abuse the numbers, because this is a really simple account operation. That's not justice. Look, 817 thousand were voters in these elections. Calculate, 6 thousand 600 divided by 817 thousand; do not share this with the number of electoral beneficiaries. You were elected by 0.5% of the voters who participated in the elections; by Mr Janš 0.8; by Mr Horvat 0.4. If we count this to 1.7, your percentage will be even smaller once again, so it'll be 0.15. So please at least in the accounting operations, we all have a calculator; you have it, I think, on the HTC phone; you access it very quickly. Respect the fact that people are not stupid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Zorčič, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u100	I would only replicate, I was misunderstood by Mr Logar. I have debated in this direction that we are forced into such legislation, because if we all adhere to certain moral standards, from individuals to customers, such legislation would not be necessary at all. This has also been the case for everyone until 2015, when we are now adopting this legislation. As for Janez Janš's mention. Mr Gorenak actually started by presenting the opinion of the parliamentary group and spoke only about him and those votes. He forgot to say that the constituency of Grosuplje is the largest in Slovenia, so that the most votes will be there if you have a certain percentage. You're the one who triggered the darkness about Janez Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Ms Anita Kolesh has the floor to prepare Mrs Jana Jenko. Here you go, Mrs. Kolesh.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u102	Hello, Mr. Vice President, everyone in! I think we have the right of Members to speak as long as we can. It doesn't matter if we have two hours, or half an hour, or whatever. I don't think we're going to be afraid in this sense that we have to stop if anyone demands it. It is also sad to hear how some Members draw the reasons for not having to change this legislation. I think that the ad personam or not ad personam is fully elucidated. I'm just wondering if it's any fear that the legislation will prevent any other person with a lack of say-so, a political culture that is of vital importance to a particular party. Maybe this debate should really start as Plato said good people just don't need laws to act responsibly. He also added that bad guys always know how to get past the law. We must have been very unaware of this when we were preparing and adopting the legislation of our young country. Not just the rules that concern elections, but today the fact that we are also talking about the abuse of good intentions, about irresponsibleness, dishonesty, greed and political velocities of the people who led us. And the consequences of these actions of politicians and politicians, or public officials, are known and obviously very much a disappointment to citizens and citizens in Slovenia alone, that is a fact. It is also naive to believe that due to some regulated legislation, people would change in person. They will still know and seek loopholes in the law; but it is also our citizens' and Members' political duty to create a legal order that will, to the best extent possible, limit entry into politics and public functions to people who do not meet certain ethical and moral criteria. The legislation that is under way is linked to some, I say, to very difficult legal issues, particularly the restrictions on passive electoral rights or the insufficiency and early termination of the mandates of public function holders. I agree with everyone who is cautious and critical. It is a constitutional category and also a question of constitutional or constitutionally permissible solutions. After all, we Members of the SMC have therefore spoken for a thorough hearing, which is just beginning with today's general debate. From the start of the proceedings to today, we have already received some answers to the questions we have already asked ourselves, and the Constitutional Court has also answered them. Our Group of Members has no difficulty in implementing their positions, despite the shortcomings of some of the jurisprudence that we have expected. We would like to be clear, unequivocal and be able to adopt it completely without worry also into the content of the legislation that we are considering today. I have paid a little more attention to this agenda item myself to the elections in the State Council. Some specific legislation is simply because we are not talking about a special law on elections, but it is about changing those articles of the Law on the State Council that treat the election of saints as carriers of different social interests. The Constitution itself stipulates that the State Council is a representative of the interests of various social groups; it is the Law on the State Council in relation to elections. First of all, in relation to this practice, let me recall the decision of the Constitutional Court, adopted two years ago, that the Council of State does not have a discretionary right to determine the dispute over the mandate of the Council of State. The existence of the circumstances enshrined in the law itself is merely a basis for not confirming the mandate of the Council. The assessment of moral and ethical dispute alone is not sufficient, but there is a need for legal justification. Therefore, in the amendment to Article 50 of the Act, we have written down the nullity of the election of a councilman who was sentenced, within a period from the confirmation of his candidacy to the confirmation of his term of office, to a non-conditional penalty of more than six months. This is provided for in Article 3, which now provides that, in the case of the term of office of an elected candidate for a member of the Council of State, who has been sentenced for a term of six months from the confirmation of his candidacy to the approval of the terms of office in the Council of State, the Council of State shall find that his election has been null and void; and his term shall not be confirmed. It is true, however, that the proposed Article 3 does not have specific judicial protection. Therefore, comments on the need for this duly recorded provision are accepted and will be recorded in further additions to the same judicial protection as defined in Article 4 of the Act or Article 63 of the existing law, which sets out the reasons for the termination of the mandate and is the appellant body of the Constitutional Court. For the sake of clarity, I think it's best that we look at this one more time. We also take a warning from the Government that the provision of the second paragraph of Article 29 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly is not recorded in a manner that makes sense to be used in the process of verifying the entry into criminal records for members of the State Council. I think that this needs to be examined, their initiative is actually taken to give the Council of State an explicit mandate or a competent electoral commission to examine for itself the data on the admission of a candidate for a councilman to a criminal record. Because this information, as you know, is one of the sensitive personal data that the Commission can use on the basis of an explicit law. Regarding the equal representation of women or sexes, as we have also heard as some kind of initiative to change the law, it has already been explained that the National Assembly is treated in the same way as the Council of State or vice versa. However, I believe that there is also a need to reconsider and perhaps to re-examine the matter in the interests of clarity. It is clear from the debate that in the provisions on elections to the Council of State and on the termination of the term of office, we have followed the amendments to the basic electoral law, namely the Law on Elections to the National Assembly. The uniformity of the key elements of legislation is essential. The Council of State and the National Assembly are two of the most important issues of electoral law – the limitation of passive electoral rights and the early termination of the mandate of public function holders. Our aim in amending and supplementing the Law on the State Council is not to give a term of office to a member of the Council of State an individual who, by a judicial decision, is sentenced to unconditional imprisonment of more than six months; he cannot run or perform public functions at State level. One year after the termination, the suspended or suspended sentence shall not have the right to be loved. At the same time, we also abolish the right to decide that, despite the legitimate reason for the withdrawal of the mandate, the Council of State should decide differently. In recent years, however, there has been so much embarrassment in the area under consideration that the confidence of citizens in the rule of law has been well shaken, that is a fact; and this also makes it difficult to understand unreasonable opposition. However, the subject is extremely complex and more difficult to understand in detail. All of this is not a reason to turn us away from proceeding, of course not. In our joint efforts to adopt good legislation, we are bound by the unconstitutionality of the provisions of the current law, the social reality, the necessity to regulate these matters. We've said a lot of things about that today. I think we can do this. Members of the SMC have certainly decided to do so, or we are determined to insist. We are extremely pleased, however, that we have drawn not only the coalition partner but also colleagues from two opposition parties to amend this legislation. And we hope that this legislation works out well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Jana Jenko. Get ready, Mr. Jernej Vrtovec. Mrs. Jenko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u104	Thank you so much for saying that. It's a nice greeting for everyone! Today, the debate should focus mainly on electoral legislation. Well, some of you are really discussing the proposed laws; some of you are back on the economic agenda and are discussing a certain person who, by the way, is still not legally absolved. In doing so, these debaters forget how much free campaigning or media attention you received a year ago; by deliberately not applying any legal provision that would at least ease all these matters. The drafters of electoral legislation did not imagine, more than 20 years ago, that today's laws of electoral law will have to define precisely who can exercise their passive electoral right, who can be loved. That laws will have to define exactly what is illogical to any person who has at least a few moral and ethical values, clearly or normally. I must stress that the vast majority of the people or citizens of Slovenia have these values. This is where individuals stand out, which results mainly in each election to the National Assembly and at the local level. Some people don't have those values. They run, even though they know they shouldn't; they give the wrong signal or example to those who have values. And it is precisely because of these individuals that we need to change this legislation today. When some are maligned or have no moral and ethical values, all of us who perform public functions at local and national level are belittled. Laws are abstract legal acts that cannot cover all the probable and incredible everyday situations we find ourselves in. That is why it is all the more important that we all act ethically. I am sad to say that we have agreed to the point where the law must set these criteria, these standards, which are clear to everyone. At the same time, I am pleased that, by adopting the amendment of this legislation, we will stop the inappropriate work of individuals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, procedurally, a controversy? It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u106	Dear Mr. Vice President!
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u107	Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u108	I would like to ask you that in cases where Members of Parliament are doing stupid things, you should warn them and tell them that there are no such things. You could tell your fellow Member that the Constitutional Court has rejected the Supreme Court's judgment that Janez Janša is not in any proceedings at this time as regards the mandate and other matters. Not even a court-martial anymore. When your fellow Members speak about electoral legislation, it might be good to refer to real facts in an argument; but not to use, I don't know, things, concepts and names that aren't suitable for this, because there is no such thing. That's your chance. I suggest that you use it, because the Rules of Procedure stipulate that things are spoken of; and tell these things to your Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u110	Another of the many tactical abuses of the Rules of Procedure – by procedural entry into a debate where it takes a second step that is more dangerous. Please, Vice President, if you will protect us – Members of Parliament, all of this – from our colleague Tank because he continues to resent us for speaking nonsense. What's an inch for you when you can measure this nonsense? Because if I'm going to use my centimeter for you, I'd rather not continue the sentence. And what is very important is that you try, Vice-President, to prevent the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, to which he likes to refer, and to which he says he knows it in his mind. And he's become the only interpreter for this book, the only one.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u111	Thank you very much. I will certainly not give Members what they can and can't say today, but I will also give Members what they can and can't say. I did it once, and Mr. Tanko turned me down. That was in the first session I ran. That's what taught me. Messengers say what you know and know. At this point, Mr. Tanko, I wouldn't. Mr. Joseph Horvath, procedurally? Yeah, they switched with a fellow gardener. Please, Mr. Joseph Horvath, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In some ways, it is not possible to oppose this package of electoral legislation; of course, this package, in particular, I have in mind the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, will work on certain assumptions. What are these assumptions? The first must be that we will have a well-functioning justice system. The applicants propose to read Article 2 of the Supplement to this Act: Notwithstanding the provision in paragraph 1 of this Article, the right to be loved shall not be exercised by an individual if he is legally sentenced to unconditional imprisonment for an offence which is prosecuted under official duty. We know what the institution is that gives the citizen a legally binding conviction. This institution must be credible, it must be trustworthy. What is today, colleagues and colleagues, the justice system in our Republic of Slovenia? Is Trust Worth Trusting? We answer that question ourselves. I know a few judges and judges who work with a 200 percent standard are more than excellent. But I don't want to know those who contribute to the judicial backlog. And I am also interested – and there will probably be plenty of opportunities in the second reading to explain to the Slovenian public how the criminal records work, not just us. Are these ideals today or are they not ideal? Are they up-to-date or not up-date? Will they, when the law is in force, be updated on the day of the election or on the day of, say, the filing of the candidate papers? Who's gonna check it out, and so on? I don't mind that it says here that those who are legally sentenced to unconditional imprisonment for a crime that is prosecuted under official duty simply cannot be loved. But these preconditions have to be perfectly fulfilled in some way, and then this law will work as well, that is, the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, as we all probably want. Again, as I remember many times, at the end of 2012, we were Members and a large part of the government in Brdo pri Kranj together at the top of the Slovenian economy. Some 500 directors were present there, and four demands were placed before us, that is to say, before politics. The first requirement was the rule of law. Interesting. At that time, it would be expected that at the end of 2012, economic operators would require the removal of credit crunches and better service of the economy by state banks. No, that was third or fourth. They demanded the rule of law. Let us look at our home statistics and European statistics on Slovenian justice. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately and I am very sorry – but they are not proud of us. First of all, we should take the first steps here to improve so that the preconditions for the implementation or functioning of the Elections Act in the National Assembly are met. First, we need to have the foundations; and that is a good one, one that even the ninth degree after Richter does not bring down. We must have strong foundations, and then we can build our building called electoral legislation. Here's ours or my concerns. I believe that in the second reading we will also receive some clarification in this regard by the proponents or by the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer, proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u114	One more time. In the morning, I have already discussed and explained precisely this part of which the honourable Member spoke. It's about the practicality of this check whether someone is being punished or not when we go to the elections. We all know what's going on at the time, it's a mass of data, a huge amount. At that time, the electoral commissions are literally swamped with work and because the hands are very clear about electoral work, it is more than clear that the system must be designed so that it is flawless, that it runs and that it does not represent any technical or other obstacles, which could later come into question. Therefore, at the beginning, when we were preparing for this legislation, we discussed different approaches. Next was the idea that each voter would bring a certificate of impunity — absurd, total. You know what this means, so many and so many, thousands of people should go to administrative units or to the Ministry of Justice to request certificates of impunity. The second thing was that Members, I apologize, all candidates and candidates in the elections would make a statement of non-penalty only by signing it; and this would later in the process, if it turned out to be automatic, if it really did not give the right data. But this is also not the best solution, so we talked at the time and now I repeat. At the Ministry of Justice, we were told that there is already electronic access to such data. It is true, however, that when the electoral commission receives data from political parties, letters, stand-alone candidates and candidates within the time limit, it must first check the data by name and surname when it comes to the identity of the candidate. You all know and know that she rejects certain data many times because people don't even know exactly how to write or forget that they have two names because they never use them; or instead of Peter calling them Pero and similar things, I will say very banal things. In addition, when all the data are already being entered into the system and verified in each election, data from this register would be included, whether it is a person who is being punished or registered in the register that he is being convicted or whatever. Therefore, this would not pose any technical problem, since the person would be immediately informed that he does not meet the conditions; only if he knew that was not the case would he – as is the case today – be able to complain. Within the time limit set out in the law, it must immediately decide, check and verify whether the information is correct. When it comes to the computer system, I believe that these records are significantly more accurate and accurate than when cases are handled manually. But no matter what, there is a possibility of error at that time, and all of this would be feasible within that time frame, and it could be rectified. I think we're living in a time when we can check everything from driver's license to anything. It is crazy to think that a citizen has to prove something to the state, but the state must be the one who, through the electronic system it already has at its disposal today, is practically serving with data; and this would be fully feasible. Today, at the Ministry of Justice, we are told that this is feasible.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Marko Ferruga has the floor to prepare himself for the mag. Branko Grimes. Mr. Ferruga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. I would start the debate by having a little self-criticism and a little political hygiene. Thus, our political culture can be swayed in one way or another. In these legislative changes, however, I see two main objectives: firstly, to restore the aspect of confidence in public function holders. The second is the tightening of the candidate conditions because they are explicitly and unequivocally defined. It is clear that this legislative amendment is also a number of other points, such as the early termination of functions, the question of inadmissibility and the question of recalling public function holders, whether they are Members or mayors. Here it is very good to say one thing that we Slovenians like to be standardised, regulated. And if we don't have that written down, we act like it's not there and we don't know what's right and what's wrong. At least that's how much I see this thing. Instead of realizing this normal, unwritten and self-evident rule of some ethical and professional conduct, we need to further define it by law, qualified. And only after it is regulated do we know clearly, even though people already know what is right and what is wrong. It is a pity that we have to spend so much time and energy to get one, I will say, natural conditions that are clear to every ordinary average person – what is right and what is wrong. I am glad that a large part of the National Assembly here sees a positive side in this and that it also goes into some kind of consensus. If I also understood my colleagues at SDS, they are also about defining this somehow; and that we are all clear on how, what and what is going on in this legislation, that the goal is not a partisan interest, but that it is a broader matter; and that we finally understand what is right and what is wrong with us all. This is what we want to do with it. Here, too, I see one step forward, progress to really raise the level of our political culture, not only within the national assembly, but also wider; and to show that we actually want to have clear concepts of who judges here, who does not belong here; and that this is defined if it already has to be legally defined. Otherwise, it is clear that these things are quite politicized. The etiquette of morality and ethics is attached to our client, so I'm going to say that it's all one set of things that aren't actually productive. The fact is that we have to accept them and that we have to somehow normalise these things if we want to make this clear to all of us, unfortunately. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes, get Dr. Jasna Murgel ready. Here you go, mag. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u118	Dear fellows and fellows, good-bye to all! Many years ago, a cute cartoon was the Screaming Grass that showed who lied and who didn't. And if this wet grass were in Parliament today, boy, we'd have a lot of work to do. Let's say we start as usual at the highest level. Dr. Brglez, as president of the National Assembly at the time – when you unlawfully took the mandate of Mr. Janez Janša, to which I have warned you, and apparently against the constitutional vote by everyone in the order and speaking exactly the opposite of today – said he would take political responsibility if it was found that something was really wrong with this. But you see, weedy grass would have a lot to do. Today, Dr. Brglez is silent as a grave or worse; yesterday, he made a statement that when we sent a letter to at least correct what is yet to be corrected, it is true that the injustice committed is being done, not only to those here, as may be the case, but to voters and voters who went to illegal elections, who were also legally questionable, as is seen in this Constitutional Court judgment. And Dr. Brglez said, "Look at them when they're separating this country again, citizens and citizens." Don't fuck with me. They are separated by those who violate the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen. It was violated by Mr Brglez, however, by all the company that voted with him. Pika. As we move on with the weeding grass, it would be very interesting to listen to those of you who said, "Yes, this is where justice is to be taken into account." Yeah, you know, if we had justice that was European comparable, we know we don't have it. Not only do you all know this, and we all know, except for who is moving and claiming otherwise; but we are already reminded of this by the whole European Union, with its key institutions, which point out that non-European justice is a key Slovenian development problem. Pika. And then say that blindly relying on this justice is, of course, shortsightedness or political calculus. What does that mean in practice? At least the Constitutional Court has now had the opportunity to fix an unlawfully removed term of office and to restore that term of office temporarily. Then it turned out that the process had been faked, that it was illegal, that it had been completely abolished; and so at least it solved what had been saved. After what you are proposing, of course, it would no longer be possible to do so. Interesting, isn't it? This is said to be institutionalised if the abuse of institutions for political accounting with someone from the opposition has so far been used, so it would not be possible to solve anything else if someone tried to solve something. Because if such an arrangement, as you now suggest, were to be applied backwards, then all that had happened would no longer be remediable. Now it can be repaired, unless of course it is desired; as Mr Brglez says, he does not wish, but at the very least he wants to hear about some of his responsibilities, which he so vehemently referred to. You know that those to whom Mr Brglez belongs won the elections by swearing to responsibility, political ethics and morality. Great, great, I have to say! But he is already special with this gesture when he speaks, who separates now; when he offers his hand and says, let us correct what is yet to be corrected, and he opposes it. Great! If we are already looking at these things, we should say that these things can be arranged as you suggest; but then we should start at the beginning. The beginning, ladies and gentlemen, is with Slovenian justice. The situation in this country needs to be established so that none of the institutions can be abused politically. But if you do not intend to do so, then it is only necessary to allow the possibility that at least those who are going through so much knowledge, ethics, responsibility and commitment to the Constitution and constitutional values – not only Slovenia, but the whole of the European Union – will do so. In this case, this is the Constitutional Court. And allowing someone, regardless of any political attempts at games and reckoning with them, can still go to elections. Because what's the point of the whole story? The point of the whole story is when it is said that someone is panicking – if someone is panicking, it is only a transition left in Slovenia, because it has proved to be a work failure. The one who leads the country from one disaster to an even greater catastrophe. And the only ones who successfully led it were led by the coalition led by the SDS, led by Janez Janša in 2004-2008. At the time, however, Slovenia had an over-the-counter development. Therefore, he must be prevented from regaining power by all means so that people do not accidentally notice it. That's the problem. But this, ladies and gentlemen, has nothing to do with democracy. However, it has a great deal to do with the abuse of institutions and the abuse of law. Think about it when you're defending what you're proposing.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u120	Now we have heard many things from the predecessor, only concrete proposals for this package of electoral legislation. We heard words like a mounted process, then a variety of weedy grass. I believe he has fond memories of childhood, but it's more of a personal thing. The essence of all of this is that the paradox arises when those who should apologize, say, for the eraseds that more than 10,000 and how much damage they have done to the country, including financial, now expect an apology from others. It's a kind of paradox that we hear from that side a lot. It is also rude, you know, Mr Grims, that you expect this; given that your client could, because she has sometimes been very serious about things for which we are not honoured in this country; these courts have judged, not only the Constitutional Court, but the European Court of Human Rights. I suggest that you become actively involved in the debate itself, as regards the package of legislation; however, a little less politicisation, and it will be much better.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Dr. Jasna Murgel has the word to prepare Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec. Here you go, Dr. Murgel.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u122	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Why did we decide to amend the legislation? Let me stress, it is not a proposal to amend the ad persona package, but it is a matter of amending the ad rem legislation. So we want to settle this matter once and no matter what one person does, I'm not even going to mention that name again. Why? Because it's obvious that the matter needs to be settled. There were already two proposals for the regulation of the matter in the National Assembly which were not adopted; 2013 already had the proposal of the first-signed Richard Branislj and then the proposal of the ZaAB, which had not been adopted. And now this one. Clearly, it is also in the light of the decisions of the Constitutional Court concerning this subject that this matter should be regulated, in particular as regards the election run for the National Assembly – who, in what way, and whether or not it can be a restricted passive electoral right. In the Modern Centre Party, we still stand in the position that someone who is convicted of a crime must not perform a more important public function, that is, not a member of the National Assembly and other functions that we are dealing with. Otherwise, according to the position of the Constitutional Court, which is now in force, and if these laws governing elections to the National Assembly and other laws, they would not change, for example, the Prisoners of the Age would establish a party to the Age – and run for elections. Now, no one prevents them from doing so by decision of the Constitutional Court. This, of course, is fraught with common sense. Yeah, that's not funny to me, but it's possible now. I believe that this country cannot and must not be a prisoner of conviction, because those who are not convicted are not condemned and cannot be held prisoner. I'm asking you, do we really want such electoral legislation? No, we don't want it. No, we don't want it. That is why we have also proposed a package of laws along with the other parties because we want to settle this matter. Above all, it is important that the legislation will not and must not be applied back, must not have a retroactive effect; it is a constitutional norm and, of course, will apply to the next regular elections. There's something else that matters. It is important that in the Law on Members, a new one to be discussed, we propose that it be removed, which is necessary to ensure that the person to whom the mandate of the Member ceases has adequate judicial protection. This will go away if the law is adopted, a legal void because the Constitutional Court imposed it. The proposal, which is the subject of this Law on Members, will be decided by the Constitutional Court within a short period of time. We have an obligation imposed on us by the Constitutional Court to abolish unconstitutionality. It is more than necessary to regulate this area; this requires the upgrade proposed by the SDS. I wonder if there's one question, but who's going to find out and how we're going to figure out who was a security intelligence associate. Will we have any new crime in this area? And who will that be? If this is a crime, please. If this is a crime, the case is settled, then the court will find out. But if it isn't, who will find out? Will we be here? Will colleague Vinko Gorenak determine who he is? If I can be a bit tricky, the committee debate also raises the question why, if we are so arbitrary, we set new conditions and then extend it to foreign co-workers of foreign intelligence services. Tell me if we have a crime involving intelligence. If we have one, it's nice – it's covered by the arrangement we're proposing. Further, trouble with justice. I suggest that we rather malign some persons directly, including from the whole judiciary, and that we do not conclude on the basis of one case or cases relating to policies; we can look at the statistics of criminal courts to see how many confirmed judgments they have, how many convictions of district courts have been abolished at a higher level, how many Supreme Court judgments have been annulled in the Constitutional Court, in criminal matters. We will find that the vast majority of the cases have been confirmed. Here, look at the statistics, Slovenian courts have most of the cases confirmed. Look at the statistics. I would suggest and point out what I have always found unacceptable is the defamation of courts and the raising of suspicion of their legitimate work simply because of a few cases which have been politicised. I always repeat, yes, there is a lot wrong in justice, a lot of things need to be corrected; but we must not use this to raise suspicion that justice is absolutely not working and that we can't trust it at all now, in no case. If it finds that criminal responsibility has been imposed, it is now even doubtful whether this can be the basis for finding that someone cannot run the elections. With this, respected colleagues and colleagues, we challenge the credibility of the entire branch of power, one branch of authority on which our country stands. And if we challenge one branch, we challenge the entire country. I can't say that, and I'll keep reminding myself, because I think it's imperative that we be aware of it. Therefore, in the SMC party, we will follow this proposal, confirm the proposals of these laws before us, we will trust the courts that they will pronounce, if they can legally condemn someone to a crime, if they pass a sentence; and then we will find that such a person cannot run for election; or if the conditions of the Law on Members are met, that he can no longer be a Member. I'll support these laws myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Gorenak, I can't give you a replica because you didn't discuss it. I allowed you earlier because you had some explanation that seemed quite interim to me; now please wait for the debate, please. Good. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec has the floor to prepare Mr. Jan Škobrne.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u124	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. For the next six hours of this debate, there has been some kind of controversy as to whether it is a package of electoral legislation dealing with one person by solving one case; or whether it is a more systemic solution than has been said lately. I think it also comes from some minor narcissism of those who oppose this package of proposals. I think that the world is not just about this man; let us move on and actually discuss also what this package of legislation brings. It is clear that we have this debate that, for the third time, these laws have been put into the legislative process for the third time now, so that we have a problem. And this problem is clearly visible not only in the case of this one Member, but it is evident from a number of decisions of the KPK, which clearly shows that public officials are in a very unenviable position, as far as their moral integrity is concerned; and that we also have a purely legal and administrative hole that does not allow them to deal with such matters. We have a whole bunch of plagiarisms that have come together through this National Assembly and other public institutions that cast a bad shadow on the work of these institutions. And even in these cases, we have seen that these individuals are not capable or capable of being self - critical enough to simply step away from this function that they have come to with such plagiarisms or in spite of their corrupt actions. That's why we have a piece of the solution here. There's a piece of this solution in these proposals. Above all, I aim at this possibility that the convicted persons cannot run. I think this should be healthy now, as we've already heard today, but it's not, of course not. However, I also object to the fact that legislation is very specific and determines every detail of human life, but obviously there is no other way at this point. We must also legislate by rearming these or future generations of public officials in the absence of such cases. At this point, I don't think we can say that it's a personal matter or I don't know what. We have a whole bunch of Member States of the European Union if this is to be seen as some kind of legitimacy that knows similar arrangements – Germany, France, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and other Baltic countries. I think that there is no serious threat to democracy, not to constitutionality, not to anything; but that someone who is a corrupt person or who has committed any other crime cannot be a representative of the people who would equally judge how the state will lead. If I do a little caricature or if I might add a little cynically, it is also one share of the population, that is, those who are prisoners; but I do not think that this is the goal of democracy that we are pursuing in this institution. In short, it follows that changes are necessary. I think that's clear. Changes are necessary, but certainly not in such a fast way. However, I appeal here that in this legislative process, even with regard to this package of laws, we slow down a little bit to think seriously. I don't think you're in a hurry. Maybe if someone's worried about early elections, it won't be that soon. Let us take time, give important stakeholders, or let those who can co-create this package of laws take part in this; and let us wait a little longer. These are very important laws, laws that regulate essential things; and we also need to think about them thoroughly. As a result, we supported these laws in the United Left, but we did not sign them because there were still many shortcomings at this point. We saw comments from the Legal and Legislative Service, and we also received a decision from the Constitutional Court last week. I think we need to take this matter very seriously and take very carefully into account in the second reading and also with the amendments to implement all these aspects that have already been exposed. In particular, I would like to draw attention to this provision, which states that the law will enter into force for the next regular elections. The last regular elections were held in Slovenia in 2008, according to seven years ago. Perhaps we could also fix it for the extraordinary ones, it is called 'for the first next election', because political stability may not yet take place as quickly as possible. This will certainly not be the last or should not be the last of the changes to electoral legislation. Surely we will have to think soon about changing or amending the electoral system, introducing e-elections, the possibility of introducing a participatory budget institution at local level. So at this point, let us make some good basis for further changes that may also occur in a single law covering all kinds of elections. I think that, at this point in the first reading of this law, it is necessary to give them a green light, because I simply think that it has proved necessary, that we need them, and that we can now or in this term – or I hope that in the fall – we will come up with some solution that will be the most neurological point that has emerged in the current reference, and with this matter, which in fact also hampers the work of the National Assembly, we will be able to move on to more important topics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u125	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor. Prepare Mr Jan Škoberne and Mrs Eva Irgl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u126	Thank you very much, President. I'm going to be brief, but because of the record, because then later some people really like to take advantage of each other and then refer to each other, and who said something and who didn't. The package hasn't been processed three times, just twice. But it's probably a little confusing because once the Government Act was dealt with in August, it fell. Then we went 30. 4. 2015, sorry, sorry, 7. 11. 2014 with package, which was recently reintroduced – 30. 4. 2015 to be able to extend certain articles and corrections. And that's the whole story. There's no other story. I don't know where you got your third hearing. I don't take this lightly, but it's more than a warning, because tomorrow some journalist will write that it was already the third hearing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u127	Mrs. Eva Irgle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u128	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Today’s debate – since 9 a.m. I have been accompanying it in the Chamber – has shown one key point that we have been talking about since the beginning of this period after the early elections. And that is to do everything in order to eliminate one person from the political scene, this is Janez Janša. You always prove that in the coalition. If I start again, I will say that I am more naive to believe in the well-intention of a number of proposals that came from this side, and today, especially after the discussion by my colleague Matić, I can say that this is certainly not the case. In his debate, Mr Matić allowed himself to be slandered personally, as well as other fellow Members and Members. And I want, as the leader of the parliamentary group said earlier in the procedural proposal, but the Vice-President did not want to take into account that colleague Matić apologized. And secondly, it is difficult for his slanders, which he uttered in his twenty - minute reading performance, to provide evidence, because it is otherwise difficult to work truthfully and honestly in such a place if some can say what they think. That's not what you do. The coalition, together with the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek and the United Left, does nothing but deal with the mandate of Janez Janša. Then you even managed to take him away, you voted like that, but of course no one takes political responsibility, even though the Constitutional Court has only told you that you have acted in an unconstitutional manner. And here I seriously ask you, in particular the main actors, from the President of the National Assembly, the President of the Mandate-Election Commission and the others who have made this term of office in the National Assembly, will take political responsibility for everything you have done. This would be politically responsible, correct and also represent those higher ethical, political standards that you are talking about and which actually put you in power and gave you as many votes as you have in the form of parliamentary seats in the Modern Centre Party. The fact is, even if some make fun of it, John Janša won the highest number of votes in the elections. No one can deny it, and that also means that people trust him and believe that he will work for their sake and for their sake. Undoubtedly, he has proved this several times, even as the two-time Prime Minister of the Government. Very good projects have been made, especially in the period 2004-2008, although John Janša is never recognised. But he is very maligned, defamed, and is also slandered by the Slovenian Democratic Party and by us personally, even by me personally – and I no longer allow myself to do so. I want people who say such things to know that they must take responsibility for such sayings and that such actions must be held accountable for unwise decisions, for unconstitutional decisions. That's the only thing right. And once again, in the SDS, we are not opposed to the package of laws you tabled in the National Assembly. I hope that you do not oppose in the coalition the work that builds on this electoral legislation that you have put in place; this is that individuals who have previously worked in the State Security Service or Udba cannot run into the National Assembly are called secret political police. It's something completely normal elsewhere in the world. Perfectly normal. Unfortunately, we have not yet been able to ensure and achieve this. The fact is that these individuals in the previous system have gravely violated human rights and fundamental freedoms and have influenced people at all possible levels. Today, they are talking about democracy, and they are even conducting meetings of the National Assembly. Even meetings of the National Assembly are held by individuals who have worked in these institutions! But this is not of interest to you, even though it is some not only ethical standards, but also to the European standards set by Europe, which we are part of. You don't care. And just last, because I'm running out of time, because my colleagues still have to talk to me, I'm really asking each and every one of you. Will you also support the fact that persons who in the previous system have in any way violated human rights and have participated in the Udba or the State Security Service cannot run into the National Assembly? This is the only question and I ask you to answer it clearly – both of you. Both proposers, too. Then we will see how well - intentioned there really is after things have been put in place in this national assembly as well. Only then will I believe when you say: yes, you are right, it is also necessary to support what you have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Ambassador Eva Irgle has said a number of things to her that she would like to hear for the first time through this door to Parliament today, even applaud and say that this is something so beautiful and that some things really need to be arranged and cleaned up in return. Yet it is unworthy to ask someone to do something that he has not yet done. You know, every year we have the Ombudsman's report – not just on any commission; it's on a committee run by even Mrs Eva Irgle. It points to the constant violation of human rights that threaten human dignity and survival. Let's just take one case so I don't get too open. For example, Romi, we have never experienced any excuses, no serious matters in these matters, so that we can say that this was very sincere. The other thing that seems very important to me today is that I mentioned it when another Member informed me that I should apologize; and now I will take the opportunity to say - I have nothing to apologize for, because you will have to first tell the facts that we will know what we are talking about. Because it's kind of a fancy thing, but I'm not going to explain it to you and so on, and it happened. Come out with evidence and facts, then we'll talk. Just a little bit out of the vine, I'll say, it's so flattened from that side. We have experienced this in the previous term, when Member Breznik has just handed down a sentence because they like to deal with this Judgment and with this so-called winter lustration theme, which they have in all their mandates and are renewing and reviving it, because it is the only topic they can do. The problem is not whether this proposal you are proposing would be incorporated into this legislation. The problem is that then we don't even know what criteria we'd still be following, which evidence would be valid. Indeed, in the previous term, Mr Breznik mentioned and referred to some of the documents that Mr Čehovin, a Member of Parliament later obtained because he was involved in all of these, I will say the charges. Also at the Commission of the National Intelligence and Security Board, where it was a member, it has submitted a document from the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency, from which it appears that it was never a member, not in any way linked to the Owl or its predecessors, in order to be clear as to what we are talking about. That's what you call the Ascension and the criminal organization. And since he never received an apology, of course, he is now suing and has decided on a lawsuit that he has also extended to the entire party. But what I'm saying is that the problem is that, over time, you want to bring so-called lustration through every law. Look, it's twenty-five years old. The people you want to persecute are probably 70 years old today. My grade. Because I can't imagine, because personally, if you want to accuse me of being in an organization, for the first time, you're going to have to find some serious documents for this, and you're going to have to look after me a little longer because I couldn't take part in such services. Physically not, even if I wanted to, because they were gone then, since we're on it. For this reason, it seems to me today that in some way your only mission, which I understand from this multi-hour implementation, is simply a reminder of your basic character and the personality cult you have in your client. And that's all you know. But you haven't gone with concrete suggestions on what to change, where you see any changes. I have seen these concrete proposals from New Slovenia, but not from the SDS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u131	Thank you. Mr. Franz Breznik has the replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u132	Thank you very much. I've been mentioned quite a few times today. I abstained because the debate remained on some point, but now I will have to react. For the first time, my friend, please put this paper on Twitter today and show it to the Slovenian public to see exactly what the director of the Archive mag is. Bojan Cvelfar wrote to Mr Jerk Chekovin. He wrote it exactly like that. I'll try to quote it. "We have, there is, all the co-workers of the Udba, all that hasn't been destroyed, we have three types of microfilms. On the two that the archive currently owns, this was last year, you're not up there, but what was the problem. The problem was the third kind of microfilm that is now in the Archive. And on that microfilm, he's right below the number that Cvelfar wrote. Since he doesn't have one, he can't confirm it, and this number is between 50 and 60 thousand, which is the case with the state security department's dismissed co-workers. This microfilm is now in the Archive and you can all watch it. Mag. Cvelfar made it clear in this letter that this is not a vacation because he does not own this microfilm. Next thing you know, you were talking about chasing people who are seventy years old. The last workers or those, as a colleague of Desus who signed to work for the Udba earlier said, are even the years 1968. 1969 is the last, youngest associate of the Udba. That means that today they're my age, about 45 years old, which I would say is people who are in some most fertile period. You don't hold both cases, but this letter can, because you think they fired your colleague, and I don't want to accuse him; but put him on Twitter so that the Slovenian public will see exactly what is mag. Cvelfar wrote to him as director of the Archives. All right, you got a deal? Let's get up there and let the Slovenian public see it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u133	Thank you. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u134	Comrade Breznik, I hope you really don't think I'm going to hang something on Twitter and give it away. But I suggest you explain this to the court, not to me, fine. You'd better talk where you finish your story.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u135	Thank you. The text shall be by the proposer of the Magi. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u136	Thank you, Madam President. I would only respond to what has been specifically said. At the United Left, it was said to slow down the fact that many irregularities or inconsistencies have been identified, but we have heard very few comments today, and there is much political debate. I hope that then, at a second stage, when we coordinate, we will really get to these comments. Once again, I say what I have said, the transitional provisions state that the law enters into force fifteen days after the publication of the Official Journal; not only in regular elections. As far as what Eva Irgle is concerned, I'm not laughing at the result, as I said before. He was misinterpreted. What we said in the introduction was that if people wanted someone and if it was a prisoner, they should have one, and if they chose one. And here was just a comparison made that out of a million 700s, only 0.3% wanted one. No, it's not about smiling or anything; but here I just wanted to point out that we have an active electoral right on one side, so most people who want this to be settled; and by no means ad person, as you try to attribute and display it all the time. Because if these things were settled a long time ago, I don't think there would be any such drastic cases. But if someone is wrongly convicted, he also regrets that this has happened; but we will see if there are still certain matters in the process. As far as your amendment is concerned, I define it, say what you're proposing or suggest that if someone killed someone, if someone did something like this, I don't have a problem, but it falls under the punishment, under what we do. [[…]] So if there's someone in the previous system, you have to convict him, someone has to judge him for it. [[…]] How are we gonna prove someone killed someone? Just like that, you just told him, I can't imagine. I'm sure you'll explain that in your amendment. You're going to explain this and say it because I think everyone who used to be a co-worker, and I don't know that much of this system, certainly not everyone has done such acts to limit his electoral rights. You will explain this matter, and in particular you will probably have to, as with any restrictions on electoral law, be required in terms of the comparative regime, in particular by the principle of proportionality, whether this measure is appropriate and can be restricted to electoral law. [[…]] In principle, I have no problem on these sides if these things, as in the case of criminality itself, are proved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u137	Thank you. Mrs. Xenia Krenjak Kramar has the floor. Ms Andreja Potočnik, Mr Jani Möderndorfer, should be prepared for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u138	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President, Your Honourable Fellow Members and Fellow Members! The central issue of the proposed amendments to electoral legislation is the limitation of passive electoral rights, i.e. the right to be elected and the right to exercise the mandate obtained in elections. Two institutes have been proposed, namely the Institute for Early Cessation and another, a completely new institute, the Institute of Institution. These proposed amendments also eliminate the legal void to which the Constitutional Court has also pointed, namely special legal protection in cases where the termination of the mandate has been found. Unfortunately, the legislator has so far not acted in the direction and has decided on the legal arrangements for this institution of insurmountability. However, since the recent deterioration of the political culture that undermines the foundations of the country in Slovenia has undermined the fundamental confidence of citizens and citizens in the rule of law, as well as in the legislative and executive branch of power, it is necessary to act decisively – and therefore to act in the direction of legislative change. In developed democratic societies and societies where the rule of law counts the most and in fact this regulation is not likely to be necessary. [[Incomprehensible]] With us, however, the social situation and, above all, political life have shown that unfortunately, this issue must be regulated by law. I think it is unacceptable that there is even the slightest possibility of a candidate running for public office who is legally sentenced to unconditional imprisonment for an offence that is being prosecuted under official duty, and therefore it is imperative that this be prevented. And the only way to do that is to change the law. I believe, however, that today is the right time to support the proposed laws in the first reading and in the second chapter, to complete and find further solutions, which will in particular be in the direction of improving the legislation that we are discussing today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mrs Andreja Potočnik has the floor to prepare Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u140	Thank you, Madam President. We've been in the hall for a while. We listen to the technical aspect, the legal aspect, especially the political aspect, and I will also touch on a little of my previous discussions. First of all, I was very excited at Mr Gorenjak's statement that the SDS Group would not oppose the package of electoral legislation. I consider this to be a positive signal to most of Parliament's work that we actually want to settle this legal void. On the other hand, I wonder if the second largest parliamentary party actually supports the proposed legislation, if, for example, we adopt their amendment proposal, or just says that it wants to follow European practice; in fact, it thinks otherwise and will only benefit from the amendment table – in the event that we do not support it – just as an excuse that these practices will not be confirmed by European practices in Slovenia. It is said that they will only have their amendment as an excuse to support this change of electoral legislation, but because of the non-adoption of the amendment they will not support it, they will only abstain – a rhetorical issue. I would also like to refer to Mr Tonin, who said that people would not elect a person who is legally convicted if they believed that it was a just judgment. In this context, people do not believe that the judgment was just. If we were to identify ourselves at this institute and make up the National Assembly, which is the legislative branch of the Authority, and actually decide at the Institute to believe or not to believe the judgment of the Court. – I do not want such a composition of the National Assembly, such an electoral body, which will actually be based on this institute to believe or not to believe the judgment of the court. A legal conviction is in fact based on knowledge of the law, which is extremely complex, and is not based on the principle of believing or not believing. It is another matter, as already mentioned by my colleague Lilliana, if there has been a mistake in the trial or if the judgment has not been fair, it has been a criminal issue, but it is another legal issue. And it does not seem right to me that we would not have adopted this legislation for this reason, because we have other cases where people can be wrongly convicted, but we have to solve this in a different way; but not in order to say right because there is a possibility of a criminal conviction, but let the convicted persons be allowed to run for office because there is a possibility that this legal conviction is criminal. Personally, I never have, and in the future, I will not stand for more and more detailed regulation of our relationship. My colleague Ferlug has repeatedly illustrated that we sometimes go to such extremes that we need a law that tells us to turn on the light when we get to the dark basement. But sometimes the situation, the anomalies in society in certain cases, in fact, forces us to deal more in detail with these social relationships because the values of a given period are different over a period. Twenty or twenty years later, we came into such a social relationship that this should be regulated. I agree with my colleague Breznik, who says that we are not a normal country, but I understand that in another direction, it is said that we are not a normal country if I am legally condemned not to run and realize this; but that we must write this down in law. If I'm a legally convicted citizen, I can't run for public office. I would also like to replicate or explain to Mrs Eva Irgle, who is not currently in the Chamber, that this legislation is not intended for one person. So maybe she understands, our purpose absolutely wasn't that. As has been mentioned several times, legislation does not work retroactively, i.e. for those or those who have already been convicted before the adoption of new legislation, but will have an effect on this legislation from the date of adoption. Unless he fears himself or any other fellow Member that he may not be able to act politically if he is subsequently convicted by another conviction. And that's another question again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Beznik, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u142	I have to answer my colleague Potočnikov because she misunderstood, which makes me think that we are not a normal country. I was talking about the abnormal functioning of democracy in Slovenia. I was talking about everyone having to have the same baseline choices before the elections. I don't know how you would feel – and I would also defend you, colleague – if you came before a judge; or the first time that the prosecutor made an indictment, the wife of someone who arrested you in 1988 when you were first convicted. The next time you see that the same judge in the High Court is talking about you, that you're naked, that you're the same as in North Korea. Not to say that it was not a minor error in the judicial system, that it was a procedural error, that it was a matter of appearance, as the Constitutional Court said, of impartiality. I spoke several times in Parliament about the complete declaration, the Bordeaux Declaration; in the end, the incorrect application of material law. This means that you have been convicted under a legal article that does not exist; for a crime that does not exist. And it was a systemic error in justice, and they warned about it. Before the face of the Slovenian public came people from abroad who warned. People who have nothing to do with the Slovenian Democratic Party, not with the Slovenian Spring, even on the left have risen. This means that this is the environment where democracy works, where when they see that there are extraordinary proposals that have nothing to do with politics, people rise up, academics, intellectuals, people rise up and demand correction. And in Slovenia all of this happened before these elections. All of this has happened, and we don't have an organ to react to it. Look, I'm sure I'm on this side that someone can't run; but under such conditions, under such an abnormal functioning of democracy in Slovenia, look, this is exactly the public, and it's those voters who gave the non-trust not to Mr. Janša – the non-trust of democracy and the mistrust of the justice system in particular. And what happened to this infidelity? Nothing. But you continued this crime, what was happening. You voted together to take the man's mandate. Now the Constitutional Court tells you again that you were wrong. Do you know what happens in an institution, like the English Parliament? We would take all the towers, bring them to this table, where John Janša writes, and say, "We forgive, we have been misled, we have spread some interpretation of the law article about Members, where we have all been warned that we cannot spread. I warned you, too, you can't spread. Dr. Toplak totally hit what the Constitutional Court said. My friend Gorenak quoted him at that session. All of this happened. It's an abnormal state of that democracy. I also talked about the media reporting about us before the elections, colleague Potočnikov, who we are, what we are. Do you think the media would report that you have a doctor of historical science who doesn't know when this country's state of affairs is to elect such an expert to Parliament? Do you think he would?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u143	Mr. Beznik, three minutes are up.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u144	Do you think my grandmother would vote for your colleague who doesn't know when the day of state is?Oh, my God! I wouldn't. It's all the information people need. And all of this is information that can make this country democratic or non-democratic. My friend Janš didn't have the chance.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u145	Mr. Beznik, the replica is three minutes. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u146	I know, I know. I'm sorry, too. I hope you will understand why democracy does not work in Slovenia; and it is also the basis for why transition in Slovenia was not a successful, respected colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor to prepare Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u148	Dear colleagues and colleagues! With this debate we are at the very beginning – not because of the opposition, but I hope to say that this time, thanks to an extended coalition – we have completely gone. And we are talking about a Member or a Group of Members instead of discussing the content of laws. But if I understand correctly at the beginning of your debate, there are such heated debates coming from this side. For the introduction, I will first touch on the democratic system and understanding democracy. In the democratic system, citizens and citizens, voters and voters are always right, however you turn. Always good. And they need to be trusted, entrusted with their judgment, and even after the elections, to say to them, "You were right, because you have made this decision." The voters and voters were also right to elect SMC. I can't agree with that, or I'll say you got the electorate and the electorate wrong here. But they were right. And you don't understand this; that this law is basically about reducing democracy. Yeah, it's also abroad, they're comparable practices, but I'll talk about it later. In fact, it is now a matter of a certain sense of underestimation of the elective body. To underestimate the voter's judgment that they are not capable of saying: But we will not elect the convicts. I believe that voters are capable of saying this and that, for example, criminals would not be elected to this Parliament. I'm pretty sure that's the way it is. But the problem is what is happening with our democratic order, with our justice system, which is possible in one case. My fellow Member, Tonin, spoke very well about this at first. Regrettably, even in a democracy where the people have power, there is no law for a healthy farm. It doesn't exist. You won't find such a marriage anywhere. You were also talking about public trust. Public confidence is assessed if someone gets enough votes to be elected to this National Assembly. He's got public confidence. That's the foundation. People trusted him. Yeah, what's more democratic? And I don't understand those of you who are advocates, I think that there are a lack of direct democracy in the Chamber; at the same time, you want to delete certain people in order to receive direct democracy. I don't understand that. If I move forward, in New Slovenia we agree that there is no place for convicted persons in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. But why? Since they cannot perform their parliamentary functions, they cannot actually perform them. Diplomatic passport. Can a prisoner be granted a diplomatic passport? It's hard. A journey abroad, a business trip abroad. Can he go abroad at any time on business? It's hard. This is why they also know abroad such restrictions, but that in Slovenia we had problems – this problem, or there was no problem, which turned out subsequently, is the problem of mistrust or failure of our judicial system, poor functioning. The problem with this whole legislation is that I have a lot of mistrust in our justice system on the basis of the fact, not on the basis of this case that you've been talking about for six hours today. But especially in relation to this in the procedures of citizens and citizens, ordinary citizens and citizens, the economy. Consider examples of the duration of bankruptcy proceedings. How can economists believe in such a justice system? The amount of time involved in individual judgments, trials, judicial backlogs, is also pointed out by the foreign. As a result, confidence in justice in Slovenia is at a very low level. If I go any further, limit passive electoral rights. The problem, as I said earlier, will mainly be before the Constitutional Court or the constitutional problem. Let me quote that in the past, the Constitutional Court has already referred in its judgments to the Code of Good Practice in Election Matters adopted by the Venice Commission. This code, as one of the reasons for the seizure of electoral rights, lays down a criminal conviction for worse crimes. So in this case, we're only talking about presumptive crimes, which you said was out of the question. I'm warning you, he may have a problem if you don't change that further. I also call on you to respect the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service in this case, so that you will not overtake this opinion, as it has been in the past, even though we have warned you. Respect the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly that we have, which is available to us here, and take into account their opinions; this is why we have it. But not to take it into account when it suits us when it does not suit us, but to stumble; but then the Constitutional Court shall establish its opinion. If I go further to the rise of political culture. If I understand you correctly, the basis for this law is mainly that you are aware of the need to raise political culture in Slovenia. It's a matter of the parties. First of all, this is a matter of customers and individuals in the parties concerned. But first, you have to start with yourself, a respected colleague and a colleague who is running for office in the constituencies. In fact, here you are the candidates or part of the proposed amendments to the legislation that you have completely failed the exam if I mention a few things. Your three ministers, this is not an example of some political culture. Keep your eyes open if you want to be so-called Purgatory, who you are proposing for such important functions as ministerial office. Even when you're running for office, be careful who you're running for office. And here you have the problem of a new client because you don't even know your candidates. And unfortunately, one of your colleagues is no longer with you. Political culture is also a matter of illegal action, for example in the removal of one parliamentary mandate in this reference to Parliament. This is where we fell on the political culture exam. Not us - you. We have to start with ourselves first. If I go further to the very law and the problems that will arise. You mentioned comparisons from abroad and you mentioned France. You mentioned France, a declaration of property that the one who does not report the property is deprived of his right to be elected. He's restricted to passive electoral rights. Colleagues and colleagues, this is your President and one of your Members, because they've been a few days late to report their assets. Let's talk about the facts. Furthermore, what is causing us a problem here, I think we should ask the proposer how we are going to solve this. Mrs Kozlovich, who is having an argument in this kind of debate, I must commend you so that we will not only criticize you. Case, the Supreme Court changes the length of the sentence. What's up-to-date in this case? For example, someone was sentenced to eight months, the Supreme Court changed the sentence for the fifth month. Will the criminal record be changed on the same day? Will it, or can you guarantee it? For if it is not that day, this person is violated by a fundamental human right – passive electoral right. Further, what about foreign convictions? That's not the law. Put this on, otherwise we will be amendments; but I hope we will receive support. Do convicts abroad have the right to run in the Republic of Slovenia or not? Slovenian citizens convicted abroad. As far as criminal records are concerned. The Criminal Procedure Act also has a series of provisions on the procedure for acquittal; if the court does not do so on an official basis, how in this case? These are specific questions I would like to answer. With regard to convictions abroad, we do not have this in this legislation, I hope that we will agree on a further one. But as for our support for Aha, one more thing about criminal records, who will have the right to look into criminal records? [[…]] It won't be the State Election Commission. Now you can imagine, if the State Election Commission is going to have to review all these nominations in that month, it's too small, it has too little human capacity. The candidate lists confirm the electoral commissions in the electoral units. Will they have the right to have a look; or will who have the right to have a look at the criminal record? There are not so many simple things going on here that someone after the constituency or electoral unit can look at criminal records, penalties and so on. This needs to be answered, because I am sure that the National Election Commission does not have enough human capacity to be able to verify all of this in that month. With regard to our position, we will not oppose this law; even more, if we come together somehow, we will adopt a package of legislation because we are aware of this problem. But the condition is six months for premeditated crimes. What I have already said in the introduction, let us follow the Constitutional Court and the Venice Commission, or we will have problems. The problems before the Constitutional Court again, you'll get your slaps back. If we do not write down six months for alleged crimes, unfortunately we will not be able to support this because we will not do or support something contrary to the Constitution or the constitutional issue. And what I have already said is a restriction on running for former Slovenian Union of Communists. If we come here together, then we'll support it. Looks like you'll have broad enough support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u149	Thank you. The text shall be delivered by the proposer, Mrs Mag. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u150	Thank you, Comrade Vrtovec, for the specific questions. I'll probably be able to answer some of them right away, and some of them will probably be later when we complete these things and sort them out. You asked how you would act if the Supreme Court were to extend the sentence to someone. Here I see a solution in such a way that these legal consequences apply even after the sentence has ceased. If someone is serving a sentence and this sentence is extended, he is proposed until the end of the sentence plus another year. In this case, I don't see any problems here, unless I understand you correctly, but I don't see you here. Since we propose to suspend the sentence for another year, this is reflected in the record of when someone has passed the sentence. With regard to criminality abroad – we will examine this matter, your question is on the table. As far as deletion is concerned, the CAP actually regulates judicial and legal rehabilitation. In this case, the Ministry of Justice should ensure that this is up to date. If such a case were to occur in order to prevent a candidate, but he himself knows that this is not settled, he would have legal protection, he has legal protection. At the same time, in addition to the requirement to delete it, legal protection could be provided that it is not supported by the application or not confirmed. With regard to right of view; it may not be clear enough in the ZVDZ, but let me explain that the District Election Commissions are asking the Ministry of Justice here. They are the ones who ensure that the 48-hour deadline is the one in which they will transmit all the data. In this regard, it is also in line with the information officer, who also cooperated here. All these provisions, this Article 29, is in line with the Ministry of Justice, the Information Commissioner and the State Election Commission. As for the rest of your amendments, as I said, I hope we will coordinate further and also find some consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u152	Thank you very much. It's been eight months, so my last name could be figured out by Mrs. Potočnikov and everyone else. My last name is "J." I don't know what it would be like for me to say to your deputy head of the parliamentary group instead of "o" to say "u". And I won't, because I have a lot of respect for her as an ex-partner and today's co-worker. Let's go in one order. I have to respond to some statements. Mrs Potočnikova, no; Mrs Jenko, Master of Law says that Janez Janša was not legally forgiven. Do you imagine, those who are lawyers, what does that mean?Oh, my God! He wasn't legally forgiven! Last time, the new SD Member Skoberne spoke about having the opportunity to prove that he was innocent. Who's crazy here? The one with the law master's degree is talking about someone not being legally absolved. Yeah, for God's sake, who gave you a diploma? Let's move on. I would like to point out that you have always, especially in the SMC, stressed and spoke as if we were opposed to this law. We do not oppose this law, I stress in particular, we do not oppose it. It will be necessary to study very well what Nova Slovenija says, these crimes, six months and more; but we are not fundamentally opposed. And now a few answers from Mrs Kozlovich, who says why Uda and so on to be crimes. That's not the question. That's not the question. If someone is convicted, then all the general rules apply to him anyway. How many of these people are in Slovenia, we don't know, employees in the Udba were around 700 at the end, but we don't know how many co-workers they had, because they didn't publish this data either; of course they didn't. It is a provision that these people, because of their undemocratic actions, because of the human rights violations that have resulted in human rights, including the deaths of dead people — the mob has planned the killings and if someone has provided such information as Hanzi — so these people cannot cooperate. That's what this is about, and it's nothing else. I'm a stranger to drag her in without a connection. Foreigners won't run for election with us, that's one thing. Secondly, if they do something with us from the point of view of security and intelligence, they're still in a crime, then things are going to fall in anyway. I was very disturbed by the debate because many of you spoke, and also Mrs Potočnikov's Mrs Murglov: "Yes, if a mistake has been made, we will correct it because you have seen that the Constitutional Court has now been corrected." Ladies and gentlemen, that is not true! Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a mistake! That's not a mistake. The Constitutional Court said that Article 28 of the Constitution had been violated and Article 28 of the Constitution said that no one could be convicted of an offence other than an offence. Which isn't a crime! This means that someone, so John Janša, was convicted of something that was not a crime, ladies and gentlemen. And it's not a mistake of the judiciary, it's a systematic abuse of the judiciary, which has abused the system, which has abused the law to send someone to prison. You know, there are no mistakes we can make in one way or another. Also on those contributors to the State Security Service that bring some kind of certificate. One month ago, this archive was more perfect, and now it won't be possible for anyone to say, I wasn't, but it was. Then there was a lot of talk – time will run out – about the fact that it is a political culture, said Mr Kopmajer, the one who should order the individual not to run if he is convicted. Okay. Or will you agree that political culture is, for example, someone who was a co-worker of KOS and will not run? I hope you agree that that will not be the case, and that you will then undermine that when we prepare and table these amendments. Thank you very much. More if there's a time-sharing.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Replica, Mrs. Potočnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u154	Thank you. Mr. Gorenak, I apologize for mispronouncing your last name. I'll be very careful in the future. But I would ask you not to address me as Mrs. Potočnikov because I am no one's property, but I am Mrs. Potočnik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u155	Thank you. The text shall be delivered by the proposer, Mrs Mag. Lilliana Kozlovich. No, no, no. Even Mr. Jani Möderndorfer as a proponent, would you like a word? Not at all. All the advertised debaters you wanted got your word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? If representatives of the bill's proposer would also like to discuss it, Mrs Mag. Mr Lilliana Kozlovich and Mr Jani Möderndorfer and the representative of the Government, please apply with a raise of hands. And now I'm going through the log-in sheet. Each debater has five minutes of time available. Mr. Magg has the word. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u156	Thanks again for saying that. It is very interesting that the fact that the right hand is a prisoner of one person appears again and again in this debate. In Slovenia, in fact, the left prisoner is her proven inability to run the economy. This is followed by that manic obsession with one person, and in reality the transition left deals with one person all the time. Look at this term. Initially, they work to shut someone down, then the same persons illegally take a mandate; after everything has been abolished, there is a genius who says he is not legally declared innocent. Coincidentally, in positive law in Europe, anyone who is not legally convicted is innocent, but this is the case in the first year of law. I'm very interested in how someone came to not know what kind of title, but it could be very much debated. What is the problem that opens up to us is that we face the same proposals over and over again on this basis. Why? Because, as it is said, the transitional left is the prisoner of her perfect developmental impotence, the total inability to run this country. And then what does he do? Nothing else — this is a great case for the last two terms and Mrs Alenka Bratušek for the present — as if he was trying to obstruct in every way possible the power of those who could take this country forward so that no one could happen to notice how incompetent she is herself. And in doing so, he abuses institutions long and long. Now it's not like anybody's going to say any more, some idea, it's now confirmed by the Constitutional Court. What did the Constitutional Court say? That some process was entirely illegal, that the person who filed such a complaint failed to comply, if I quote from memory, with the "minimum conditions required by the normative law and the Slovenian Constitution"; and that the person who so decided had been convicted of an act which was not a crime at all. Interesting. And then the question is, what is the responsibility of all these people? Nobody wants to hear about it. And when we discussed the withdrawal of the mandate here, I said what are the European Court's judgments and what are the judgments of the Slovenian Constitutional Court. This wasn't about plowing the ice, like maybe someone naively thought. It was here that he knew he was knowingly violating human rights. And when the question of personal responsibility is asked, nothing is heard again. The President of the National Assembly said he would take responsibility if it turned out that the withdrawal of the term of office was illegal. Turns out it was. And what does the same President of Parliament do? Declare Urbi et Orbi that those who say we should discuss how to remedy the consequences of all proven illegalities in this process and what followed is that they share Slovenian society. And so let me say again; the one who knowingly violates the Constitution, whether that excuses it or not, is willing to accept responsibility, is in fact sharing a Slovenian society. It's sad that it's nothing new. Ladies and gentlemen, as long as it is to abuse the institution and share the Slovenian society with falsified processes, with illegal decisions, through the introduction of laws whose only purpose is to prevent an equal election match between individuals and political parties, the time of such legislation as you propose cannot be exactly supported because it is necessary to go in the right order. I have no objection to such legislation, then, ladies and gentlemen, when we have a European comparable justice system. Exactly what the European Union refers to as a fundamental development issue with its institutions, which has been warning us for years now that we do not have a judicial system that works in a European comparable way. We should talk about this, and we open up here all the time, but no one wants to talk about it, because you have this problem of being prisoners of incompetence, of your own incompetence. Just make sure that those who are more capable than you do not take responsibility for running this country. Ladies and gentlemen, as long as this is the case, this does not have anything to do with democracy, nor with the Slovenian constitutional order and even less with the constitutional legal standards of the European Union. And if you want to with ethics [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u157	Thank you. The word has Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u158	Thank you very much, I will continue with Mrs Murgel's answers, which is not here again. She asked who would determine who was a member of the Judgment. We have already written clearly in previous amendments to the previous package of laws that an individual has signed a declaration that he has not been. However, if it is later found that it was, this is the reason for leaving Parliament or from those functions. I'm not gonna check it out. Everyone will be able to verify this, any citizen, in fact, who will have access to the archives. But it's probably up to the individual to make that statement. Mr Trček spoke this morning about how they voted that the law was not disputed. That's not true at all. At that time, we warned you that the law speaks of a Member who is already a Member and who is condemned. This is also stated by the Constitutional Court that the law refers to a Member who is already a Member and who has been sentenced during the term of his term of office; not to someone who has been convicted before. At this point, the Constitutional Court also dropped the case, as you know. So it's not the law that wasn't at issue. Of course, there was a disputed way of voting according to the law and this was confirmed by the Constitutional Court. It was also wrong to interpret that the Constitutional Court gave Kangler his mandate, not true. He was given it because they didn't give it to him illegally in the State Council. Mr. Wilphan, you were talking about five lawyers, how you believe them. I gave you 18 lawyers, top-notch, those who teach in the United States, American future judges, those who teach at European universities and so on. I counted 18 of them who said what I said before – the mandate cannot be taken. And you leaned on five lawyers, Mr Möderndorfer said I insulted them, and I'll still say they're quasi-advisors. Some columnists say that "chigums are lawyers," and you can read it; but the joke is that they wrote something you wanted, because it's the same blood; and it's the left blood that just goes together. And they wrote what they wrote. And Mr Wilfan still says: Janez Janša – "if human rights were violated for him". He's still saying that. He sells stupid things. Head of the parliamentary group, read him a constitutional decision or tell him to give him a homework assignment. Not "we should be" – human rights and constitutional rights have been violated; twice. For the first time in the case of Patria, where he was convicted of a crime that was not a crime because he was absent; and for the second time, his mandate was taken in such a way that you violated his constitutional rights and freedoms. That's what it says. Let's put the future down. Let's get him back to his place. Let's just let it go. Let it go. Let it go. They were broken. Mrs Kozlovich, the 0.8% was not correct because we all know that each of us is running in one constituency. If Janez Janša or any of us were to run across Slovenia, this percentage would be quite different. We know that, so that's a little awkward. Mr Zorčič said that the court had found an unconstitutional law and therefore had his mandate back. That's not true! Don't you read that? I don't even hope in front of the camera, I don't hope in front of the camera without reading things. Now it's been two months in one case and 14 days in the other, and you haven't read it yet. The Constitutional Court said: A, the mandate was taken unlawfully; and B, you must also regulate the possibility of a complaint in the Law on Members. That's what he said. Not as you comment on it, as you do. To conclude with Mrs. Slug. You were a 14-year-old girl, you know where; when someone fought for this country and this country was created. Even so that you live in this country today, in the way you live. So much better than we were then, in 19 [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] That someone went to an illegal prison. That someone was creating this country. You respect him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u159	Thank you. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u160	Madam Vice President, thank you very much. In those five minutes that I have, I might even have thought about electoral legislation. The first is how it is with those who have passive electoral rights soldiers, police officers. If I speak, say, on my own account, because I also worked for several years at the Ministry of Defence, in the logistics service, I resigned here in Parliament, went to the economy and later ran as a member of the National Assembly. It's very interesting that cops and soldiers don't have it. It is also interesting that those who are members of the public administration, who are also judges, can run for office. It's interesting how to do this during an election campaign. You're at work, you're in public administration, you're doing some important job where you have to make decisions, and what are you doing there?Oh, my God! So you're into politics, you're walking around political events in your free time, and you're running for election. This question of inter-space should also be open. Then you're here, like, as a school representative, running for office, fighting for as much budget as you can for a college, finishing up, going back, looking forward to getting more money for yourself. All kinds of questions open, mini questions. The next thing I would like to remind you of is one more comment from my colleagues — the Union of Communists, the Ascension and everything else, all in one basket. Look, it's not like that. Things aren't black and white. Someone who was in the Communist Union today can't accuse him of knowing of some crimes committed by Ubba at home and abroad. Someone who was in a low position in the Communist Union did not today know exactly how this service worked and who was in charge. [[…]] There were republican beliefs that were relatively independent. All those who knew about these events were members of the Central Committee of the Union of Communists, and they were getting information, they were getting reports, and they were also deciding, including political murders. The next thing that kind of surprised me, I think colleague Zorman was explaining electoral legislation, like in France. He also spoke of a case where someone who had submitted a property report too late could not even enter the elections. See the news on September 10, 2014; I think that two have not submitted a timely report on the property situation, this is Dr. Miro Cerar, current President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the man who teaches me and all of you what is right, what is wrong, what is moral, what is immoral. A man who is tens of thousands of euros can be said to have advised the National Assembly in all the legislation of the last 15 years and who went to the elections because he said that this legislation was not right. It's this story that kind of bothers me. I wouldn't say that, but because we're kind of locating and talking about one, two, three people today, we're going to have some morality, some moral science. I never said I was without mistakes, I never said I was. Maybe I'm not proud of some actions in the past. However, I have not made any major mistakes in my life, and I would like to point out this. Someone who somehow failed to reach French standards teaches us about morality today. Here too, fellows, I must remind you – those who teach us about some moral values, not to mention that in Germany, which we quote many times, it does not occur to anyone who was a member of Stasi to even run for office; nor does it occur to anyone to run for office. Here are these nuances that make the country democratic and that make it undemocratic. We will need a process that will bring us into a serious valuable Western European system to know what is right and what is wrong. At that time, we will not really need to change the laws; we will stick to these laws. The condition of all of this is democracy, as I have said in my previous speeches, that all the institutions of this country are operating under certain levers. I am convinced that it is Parliament that has at least these sins, that there are other institutions that you advocate, but that some minimum standards do not adhere to. I think that today has been the most talked about justice, which so far, at least in the last period, they have not been allowed to make any criticism. Now it's a little bit of a normal thing. So much for this extension of work, some of my concerns about running, including considering new electoral legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u161	Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u162	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues! On 29 June 2014, Mr Zoran Jankovic hosted the Croatian Radio Television programme. There the journalist Jankovic asked, "Are you afraid that one day you will be convicted and imprisoned?" Zoran Jankovic replied: "No way, all these years, when I was part of executive power, I was the biggest opponent in Janez Janša's policy. This is a political and judicial environment in which we have been operating for a relatively long time and in which this coalition proposes various legislative changes." This statement by Zoran Jankovic was not responded to by the current and current policies, and what implies that judicial proceedings are directed against a certain person, but not against everything, selectively, was intervened by no one from the NPU, no one from the Special Prosecutor's Office, no one from the judiciary. What we have before us today is, in fact, the continuation of justice, state policy and legislative policy, when everything concentrates on this maxim – I am against Janez Janša, a strong opponent of Janez Janša. This means that it is sufficient that I am not judicially tried if I have mistakes; and I am not politically suspended or penalised. I ask you, is this what I am talking about contributing to political culture? Is this a contribution to justice culture? Mr Jankovic is not who you are either, it was former President Alenka Bratušek and Jani Möderndofer, co-signers of these novels. That Janez Janša is the only reform that will somehow end this coalition is more than clear. Just sum up how many meetings of the National Assembly we had on Janez Janš on mandate issues, on the Commission for the Monitoring of Intelligence and Security Services, on the confirmation of the mandate, on the withdrawal or finding that he does not have a mandate, etc. This is the far-reaching and most important point for this coalition in this National Assembly. Neither with the budget, nor with the Government, nor with anyone in this national assembly, did we deal as much as with how to prevent Janez Janša from being a Member or once again being a Member. This suggests that you are all in one of the chains mentioned earlier by Zoran Jankovic on Croatian Radio Television. You're all working exactly on a scenario to make this happen. As for your claim that the Constitutional Court has found out. Before you went into the procedure of taking the mandate of Janez Janša, you were warned that you were acting unconstitutionally. Why, then, did you not make an assessment of the provisions of the Law on Members before initiating the procedure of unconstitutional, illegal taking, withdrawing the mandate? Why just now? What you've done now is just your reaction to not having to apologize or take any responsibility. You have done an unconstitutional act and instead of an apology or anything else you are now building up with a change of law so that you can justify what you have done. This is irresponsible, unfair, unfair and unethical. Let me just remind you that those who have submitted to the legislative procedure are the ethical code, that you will read there certain provisions, what you have written, what you have tabled and how you will proceed. Unfortunately, nothing, not a word in this national council, is about those who have caused such an unconstitutional situation — not in the field of justice, nor in the field of politics. There was a conscious procession, a conscious non-constitutional decision, but the principles of the legality of Article 28 of the Constitution were not known to the judiciary or to those Senate members who had tried; that is, they could not have a license as a judge. This is a basic provision, I suppose. I think that processes should be initiated, especially on the other hand, not in those [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr. Marko Ferruga has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u164	Thank you for your word. I must say, unfortunately, I see things differently than my predecessor. If it was Mr Janša, I have no problems, here I would also personally apologize to him if this is the biggest problem or gesture right now. I don't see any problem here. [[advertising from the hall]] How? I can apologize to him here if he's here. I don't have a problem, and I shake his hand if that's a personal problem right now. But I think it's something else more important. I'd rather turn here to what we're talking about today. The proposals for laws that we are considering today have the purpose, under point 1, of establishing an institution of inadmissibility, and point 2, of establishing the reasons for the early termination of the function for those officials for whom there is a lack of legal regulation in force, and point 3 of the legal protection regime in the event of termination of the mandate, which is essential in view of the recent findings in the Law on Members. Unfortunately, the legislation currently in force does not provide for restrictions on candidates for public-loved or appointed functions in cases where an individual is convicted of a crime. The constitutional basis for restricting electoral rights is explicitly given only as regards the election of Members. However, it follows from the Constitution's overall attitude that this constitutional power also applies to the elections of other state and local officials. And here, in all the laws governing the condition for the performance and termination of public functions, such an institution should also be uniformly regulated. A uniform or equal treatment of comparable functions is needed, on the one hand, of loved ones and on the other, of appointed officials. And, as has already been said, the purpose of the amendment of these laws is to restore the aspect of confidence in the institutions of public functions and, secondly, to strengthen the conditions for performing and running the latter. And let it be clear once again that if we normally, unwritten, self-evident rules of ethical and professional conduct were already within us, we would unfortunately not even be discussing this today. Here is some lack of self-reflexion or self-critique; or some bizarreness of our system in Slovenia, which has blurred aspects of political culture and political hygiene, if we talk about it. But the fact is, and I am very glad that we have everyone here, as I understand from the debate today, a unified view that changes are needed here, including colleagues from SDS. I think we're going along the right path to solve these things, to put them on some legal guidance and to go towards some common goal for which I personally stand, and probably most of us here to do better; and that we have rules of the game that are clear, and also responsibility that is clear. That is why I will support all these legal changes that have been presented and given today. And clearly, this is some process that is developing and needs to be complemented and complemented, it is like some living matter that will clearly need to be complemented in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u166	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Hello, Comrade Representative of the Government and colleague and fellow Members. To begin with, I am not here today to represent or to be burdened with left and right blood, as has been said many times today. With this I am really not burdened, and I went into politics with a clear goal of looking to do something in the future. That's why these things, the accusations of the left and the right are very disturbing to me today. From, if I look on my right side and my fellow Member of the racer's side to me, to a fellow Member of the Janša. I will say nothing that I have anything against this side; for as you fellow Members know me, you know that I have good relations with all Members. I will not say anything today because he is not here; he is not present; but because I have so much political culture. I wanted to say that today was mainly about the past, how it was, years ago, maybe 20 years ago, maybe even longer; but we should talk about the future, and therefore we also propose a change, we want to amend the Electoral Law to make these problems less difficult in the future. It doesn't bother me at all if you have to get a certificate of impunity. I was the principal of high school in four mandates, and I had to get this confirmation every time. I've never been burdened with it, and I've never told anyone why I need it. I think that's necessary. But when it comes to representatives of the country, let it be the Members, the President of the State, the Mayors, and I think it is so much more important because these people are representatives of the people. I think they need to be without stains. Personally, I'm not afraid of this law or these changes. But I would warn you here today because I have detected during these dialogues, and I would argue that elections are expensive. Clearly, elections are very expensive, even if they are often not regular, that they are still in between. However, I would also point out that it would be worth considering in the future also the electronic elections; we are likely to do something cheap. So much for once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr. Tillen Christmas has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u168	Thank you for your word. We already told the SMC that we'd settled this area. I think we're trying to sort it out in some meaningful way – not just on the SMC here, but on a wider scale. So far, this problem, at least in some part, has not been understandable, so it is growing more and more. These standards, if we look at what it's like inside this house, if I don't go into all the laws listed there, even when we look at public opinion, etc., unlike the financial or economic crisis that somehow reached the bottom, we bounced back and went up; in this house we sometimes feel like we're still sinking. And yet I also look at these laws in some way to set some bottom, some basic criteria on which we can lean, to make some bounce back up, so that this house will also eventually come to some respect and validity; also in society, wider among people, that we will not always test again how deep we can go, but rather how high or where we can get to. Throughout all this debate, we are trying to reach a broad consensus, because ultimately this package of laws provides that two thirds of the support should be obtained. This is not some niche solution; in the end we will definitely have to deal with it. A very broad team on these matters, which are always mentioned: in which case no one can be elected or becomes insufferable, how this mandate ends and how some legal protection will be provided; when we come up with such drastic measures that we can turn around or solve the problem. Not as it was in the past or last year that some of us, when we should be dealing with the budget, the economy, the people, the social sector, have hired us more timely and mentally than we would have wanted, because we had a lot of pressing problems. With such solutions as proposed, things are somehow becoming clearer, more automatic, without any major shocks, political and psychological, or anything like that. But you know what's expected of someone, and you also know what the sanctions are if they don't. In my opinion, all these proposals that we make solve this in some meaningful way. I would also like to point out that it is the first reading, that even what might have been given today may have been good ideas, and that in further discussions, I expect that we will talk about all this further, somehow come to something like what I said earlier, that we will come to this consensus, that indeed two thirds of them will also confirm the final version. And that part of the activity that once happened in the National Assembly, that we're doing a little too much of ourselves, gets out of our schedules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u169	Thank you very much. The word has Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u170	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Today we are discussing this package of so-called electoral laws again, because we are supposed to save some void that is supposed to be valid. And then you also talk about the fact that this package is not intended for ad persons. That's not true. I will tell you that this is not true, because if that were the case, then you would not first take someone's mandate away from them, would not prevent them from working with the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission; but would rather change this legislation, which would of course apply in the next elections. But first you did everything you could to get an answer from the Constitutional Court, you got into some awkward situation. Because I only believe that most of you have those values, such as moral and ethical principles, and of course you are now trying to bring this matter to an end in some way. But you can't. The blame was given to the individual and the Slovenian Democratic Party. She was. We have been without a Member for months. You can imagine that this vote would decide on some important decision for this country to make on its own. And that is also what the final decision of the Constitutional Court is talking about. Previously, it was also said that some of us did not discuss the very contents of the law. Of course we are. I was talking about the fact that when members of the Slovenian Army were on missions, they were prevented from holding elections, even though they were at home. I ran into the lowest level of any discourse, embarrassing me. And now I'm going to say, but it went through the next system. First of all, the answer was that these problems would solve the electronic elections, namely Mr Jani Möderndorfer. Then he remembered, stopped by in a few minutes and said that he had reviewed the matter and that there were some problems on the mission in Kosovo; but that they were then somehow resolved by elections at the embassy. But that didn't leave him alone, and then he mentioned me again and told me that I was lying, that I was telling the truth, and so on. Here, not because I will receive his apology, because the apology in this way means nothing to me; but because of the Slovenian public – I am talking about the 2004 elections, about members of the Slovenian Army who were then in the service of the country in Afghanistan. These soldiers couldn't vote, these soldiers couldn't vote. When I talked about the shortcomings of this marriage, I mentioned another one that seemed important to me and I didn’t understand it. In addition to the fact that quotas would now be comparable to other matters, you said that the law would also resolve the order by which candidates on the list should be allocated. I asked clearly what kind of order we have because we have elections in the National Assembly. One who knows at least part of it knows that there can be no order here according to the system that it is. I didn't get an answer for that either. I also talked about a bad proposal for an election solution that would allow people with disabilities to have easier access. I said that the majority of voters won't solve it, to the greater size of the electorate in terms of voting beneficiaries. And I didn't get any answers. However, I have heard that we were not able to say anything concrete in this debate. These are specific things! There are no laws that you have rejected in this National Assembly if you are ill-prepared and you are changing three articles here, and I have found in two very important shortcomings for you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u171	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposals for conclusions that the proposals for legislation are suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide in half an hour in the framework of the votes. I hereby terminate agenda items 15, 16, 17, 18 and 19. I also adjourn the 9th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by the vote at 17.05.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u172	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, this is with the first reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Elections to the National Assembly. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Elections to the National Assembly is appropriate for further consideration. In doing so, I inform you that in accordance with Article 80(4) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a two-thirds majority of the votes of all Members are necessary for the adoption of the draft decision, i.e. 60 or more. Dr Vinko Gorenak has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Not to be specific in every marriage, I'm going to try to say something about the whole so-called package. The SDS Group will not oppose the electoral legislation package, as I said before. However, for the second reading, or for the continuation of procedures, we will prepare amendments that will exclude the possibility of running for all these functions, for all the laws we are talking about, members of the former Udba, that is to say, those who were actively employed intelligence agents and those who were their co-workers. Their coworker doesn't mean the one who walked by or knew someone and was on coffee with them, that we're clear. These were people who actively cooperated with these services, actively gathered information and signed a statement that they would work for them. Some, I don't know, based on belonging to the system, others for money. How many of these people are, we don't even know; but we do know that around 750 people were employed at work at least in 1990. As many of their associates as we have, we don't have accurate data. We imagined that each candidate would sign a declaration that he had not cooperated with these services or that he had not been employed by them. Even then, even at that stage of the electoral commission, they cannot verify this, but if it is later found that it was, this is the reason why they leave the term of office or any mandate in all other functions, in all other laws. However, I must stress one more thing; we will try to show you how to say that there is a desire to adopt legislation that is European legislation. We therefore expect the coalition to seriously study and support those amendments that we will prepare. This would mean some approximation for Slovenia, some approximation for Slovenia to those countries that have done this a long time ago – the Czech Republic, Slovakia, the former Germany and East Germany, we will say, and so on. This would be one such contribution to Slovenia taking one good step in this direction; because if we prohibit those who are sentenced to six months in prison – this will have to be further worked out, as colleagues from New Slovenia have said – then someone who was a member, employee or co-worker, an informer, whatever we call him, a criminal organisation, can then be completely clear that we can also prevent him from doing so. [[sign for the end of the debate]] to such persons. I predict that we will not oppose the law and that we are preparing amendments for the next reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u174	The explanation for the vote on behalf of the SMC Group shall be mag. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u175	Thank you. Members of the SMC Group were among the proponents of this package, whose main objective is to set a standard for those who want to run for public office, in public elections; and also for those who already hold such functions, in terms of those acts which the company has assessed as the worst acts and which it has defined as crimes. With this, we feel a great responsibility to our constituents and to the level of political culture and confidence in these people they have chosen. At the same time, we will support this legislation, and this package will also be supported. At the same time, I would like to thank everyone who has debated today on behalf of you as a proponent. I accept all the debates that have been put forward in good faith, as well as all the proposals that have been made. At the same time, I invite all parliamentary groups to bring the whole subject together in a way that we will adopt legislation, finally close the topic and give it the opportunity to live and to create some legal practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u176	The United Left shall have an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u177	Thank you for your word, chairman. The United Left has come to Parliament with a very clear view of this area. Our ideological position is clear here as well. In the first reading, we will support this set, as Mr. Muscolo once said, the laws. Hereinafter, as I have explained in more detail on behalf of the United Left in the presentation of our position, we will commit our support to the removal of the set of whoremongers currently contained in this proposal; to harmonise the laws in order to amend them by going through a constitutional assessment. We're calling for no rush again. It's a subject where you have to rush in the way of "festina lane". Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u178	An explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats is given by Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u179	Dear colleagues and colleagues! In New Slovenia – we will not oppose the adoption of these laws by Christian Democrats. It is worth mentioning, as we have already said through the debate, that in this case it is an expression of distrust for voters and voters to decide for themselves who they will trust in their vote. To whom they will trust their voice in the elections, because in order to actually have them – citizens and citizens – somehow unable to separate grains from weeds. Although I have a different opinion on citizens and citizens with electoral rights, I am convinced that if a democratic state were fully involved, those convicted would not be elected to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. However, because they also know abroad that our Constitution can provide for this, in New Slovenia, as I have already said, we will not oppose this. Of course, we have a number of proposals to improve existing legislative proposals. Passive electoral rights are one of the fundamental constitutional rights and their limitation is extremely constitutionally sensitive. I wanted to draw your attention to this throughout the debate, and I hope that you have heard us – two suggestions. First, I have already said, punishing or banning candidates for those who are sentenced to imprisonment for more than six months for contrived crimes. Why this proposal? Because we will not come back into constitutionally contested acts. If you do not accept this, Nova Slovenija will not give you a vote because we will not vote for something which is constitutionally controversial. Just as we have not been in the past in this mandate. The second proposal, also known by the foreign and Germany, which you have already mentioned several times today, is the ban on running or restricting passive electoral rights for all officials of the former Union of Communists of Slovenia and Yugoslavia. We also know this abroad and it is a comparative regulation with the countries of Eastern Europe and, for example, with Germany. However, other matters need to be settled in the bills themselves. One of these is how it is with those convicted abroad, or then they can run in Slovenia. This proposal does not provide for this, nor does it provide for the up-to-dateness of criminal records, the validation of nominations and so on. The type of tasks is still ahead of us; if we somehow harmonise them, you will also receive the support of New Slovenia in the second reading. Today, we will not oppose this bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u180	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Alliance's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u181	In the Alliance, we also support the whole package as proponents. I have to say that I am pleased that after one year there has finally been this movement, thinking that it is time for things to settle in this area. It is of particular importance for us that all appointed and elected officials of the matter be treated in a consistent manner and that it is also appropriate to understand this. Not only to understand, because in the end we have a problem with our legislation when we adopt it, then each begins to interpret it in its own way. Very wrong, especially since it seems that in recent times the highest, those who judge what someone meant when they adopted a certain law, should explain in fact very precisely what he meant. As in some other cases we have already had to, here I am referring to the Constitutional Court, and to say where the restrictions are set, they will look also with this legislation very clearly to lay down the framework for things to be flawless and clear to all. As far as the proposals we have heard today are concerned, there have certainly been several proposals that make sense through the debate also later to implement in the form of amendments; and to improve the full legislation to a greater extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u182	Mr Jan Škoberne has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SD Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u183	Mr President, thank you very much! The very nature of today's debate has highlighted the root of the problem. In the community in which we want to live and live, it should be clear and self-evident that someone who is convicted of a crime cannot, at the same time, be the one who decides on legislation, the one who assesses what is good for the country, and the one who sets moral and other standards. Someone who has deliberately broken the law, someone who has repeatedly violated the most fundamental norms of the community in which we live cannot sit in the congregation that sets these standards, because in this case, when we agree to it, we can simply say that we are breaking all the rules, living in an anarchic world where everything is allowed to anyone. My freedom is no longer limited to the freedom of someone else, but my intervention in the freedom of someone else can only be subject to my arbitral judgment. That's not right. What is crucial in these laws is that this whole package should not be falsely shared by the ad person of the debate that has been taking place all day. If we all agree that legally condemned people in this national assembly cannot sit down, then we probably don't need a debate for five hours. However, if we need five hours of debate to confirm this, we probably have other problems. We will support the social democrats' package of these laws, and we believe that in the Republic of Slovenia it is necessary to consider not overriding everything and everything, because there should be a social consensus around fundamental morality and ethics; even for those who want to sit as lawfully condemned in the National Assembly. Comrade Rotovec, I agree, it may also be necessary to consider extending the circle of those who belong to this category. But this time I will give a personal opinion – we can also talk about the collaborators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u184	Mr Franc Jurša has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u185	It is clear from the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners and from all the discussions that we have had with the members of this Group in today's debate on the electoral package that we will also support this issue. I must say that we will devote ten votes in favour to this legislation. However, we would like to continue, in the further debate, that the legislation should be supplemented so that it can also withstand all constitutional judgements.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u186	Mr. Jernej Vrtovec has a procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u187	Mr. President, thank you very much. Today we have talked a lot about political culture in this national assembly. My colleague on the other hand, Mr Škoberne, has just shown what is not a political culture. For this reason, Mr President, I request an apology from Mr Škobernet for the words he has said.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u188	He said that the employees of the invader shouldn't be this part is the one who's troubled, I ask? [[…]] Or that he spoke in his own name, because he could have warned him, and I didn't. But most of the matter has been put on as the opinion of the parliamentary group, and so far I have not warned anyone about this, and I will not at this moment, because this last part is just another one of the enlargements that has been proposed and can be taken into account further or not? That's what I heard, so there's nothing I can do about it. [[advertising from the hall]] Please. That's why I'm not giving a reminder at this point. What is possible is whether someone has an explanation for the vote in their own name. Vote explanation in your own name, please log in. Mr Primož Hainz has an explanation of vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u189	Thank you so much for saying that. I will be in favour, as Mr Franz Jurša has said, of not corrupting discipline here, but I must say that we have set ourselves Members a rather low moral threshold. Nevertheless, I am surprised by these six months and even then, if six months is unconditional, then the Constitutional Court can exceptionally those who have been condemned for a long time; I think this is a bad sign for the National Assembly. [[…]] The MPs should probably start a little lower. This is what employees have for Members of Parliament and State officials, if I may say so, but we should put this a little bit on the table. There's no reason a car accident is the one that now determines where and where. For six months, it seems to me that you're too high apologising to be reelected after one year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u190	The explanation of the vote in its own name is mag. Margareta Guček Zakošek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u191	Thank you, Mr. President. I will support this package of electoral legislation. Although I have already said in one of the first discussions of this National Assembly that I do not agree that we must introduce basic moral, ethical and other social standards into the laws, because I believe that this can be disastrous for our Slovenian society in the final stage. And we'll never be able to put everything we can't into marriage. I would like to write in this National Assembly the frameworks in which we should work, but not, as the economists say, we put out fires, so we write laws based on certain actions. However, I think we all believe that this is the right way and that no one wants people who are legally convicted to sit here. And now I really speak here in such a way that it goes not to anyone in particular, but to all citizens and citizens or to those who could be loved in office or in office. And this definition of the institution of inequity, which we now define here, and in particular what the Constitutional Court has also determined that we must regulate legal protection, I think is the right way, so I will support this package. I certainly believe that we must all stand here for this path and follow what we have just said must be changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u192	Is there any other explanation in your own name? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Franz Breznik has an explanation of vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u193	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will not oppose this package of electoral legislation myself. However, I believe that in later reading we will examine various aspects of what colleague Gorenak said. I also agree with my colleague Škobernet's statement that the employees of the occupying party should not run. I believe you're referring to those in 1991 who participated in the takeover of the Territorial Defense. That is why I also welcome such an agreement. I would also like to warn the other groups how they will run. For example, I have here a paper from 1982 when colleague Hainz asks whether and how many have been nominated to the secretariat, i.e. in the parliamentary elections – the participation of priests and priests. And answer these questions. By Hainz in 1982 as a member of the SZDL. I think you are also interested in whether priests can run, say in the National Assembly or in the highest political functions, as you were interested in, say, 1982, and you have suggested that everyone investigates to determine by 25 April how many priests there are in the then delegation assembly, whether there is a minister in the then delegation assembly. I think we could figure that out. Comrade Hainz, you can open an investigative committee today, see if any of us are even a priest or a clergyman and may have run for office, but to eliminate them, as you did in 1982. We can also spread here, and you can also make an amendment, as Comrade Gorenak said today. I believe that you will do this because you are always the same, always looking at the same, from the same perspective, with the same values. Besides saying I am in favour, I also have two suggestions for the next reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u194	As you well know, colleague Hainz can no longer defend himself by wanting to [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Wait, wait! Can I please say to the end without you getting involved in the word? Comrade Hainz can't defend himself at this point, which is why I'm the only one who can protect him in the hall. [[advertising from the hall]] My friend Rotovec has an explanation in his own name still possible. My friend Hainz is gone. So I ask you to stop this kind of thing; I will not give you a reminder, but I ask you to stop these kind of spreads that will go to a personal level. As long as the debate is in principle, it is welcome in this National Assembly. But the moment it goes to the personal level, it absolutely does not and does not contribute to the First Piece was really an explanation of vote. [[…]] Would you please sign up now? If you're going to apply for an explanation of vote, please take this into account. I don't want you to point out names that won't be able to defend themselves anymore and that's why I'm going to defend them; that's what I have to do. Any other explanation for the voice? Yeah. Then please report. Mr Igor Zorčič has an explanation of vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u195	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I'll support this package of laws. I have no doubt about it. Maybe they'll be upgraded with such an amendment. But I want them to be accepted as wide as possible. We have heard, some will not object, and probably not vote in favour of this law, so I understand them. But I hope they change their minds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u196	Dr Dragan Matić has an explanation in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u197	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Of course I'll support the legislation. From today's debate, it is more than obvious that this is necessary. At the same time, since there has been a talk on personal attacks, I must take this opportunity to reject the insults or insinuations on behalf of my father, which have been done by young Mr Mahnič. These insults or false accusations were committed long ago when he was likely in primary school, and they were rejected at that time. Since the chairman of this session did not protect me at the time and did not remind him, I would also like to take this opportunity to invite you to somewhat unify the criteria when it comes to protecting someone here when it comes to personal level. Of course I'll support the legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u198	Or we can continue with the explanation of the voice, which will be half the explanation, and the other part will be the controversy. I propose that we stop and vote on this matter. [[advertising from the hall]] I've never given anyone a warning, and I'm not giving it to anyone. He's got Dr. McKinley on trial. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u199	Thank you for your word, chairman. My procedural proposal is to start using the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because this is already being transformed into scarves at first reading. If it goes that way, the United Left won't give support to such stunts. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u200	Any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. Then we vote. There are 82 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Members. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Members is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the core has adopted the proposed decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as its parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Council. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the State Council is suitable for further consideration. In doing so, I inform you that, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 98 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a two-thirds majority of the votes of all Members are necessary for the adoption of the draft decision, i.e. 60 or more. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 62 for whom there was a vote and no one opposed. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 18th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. 81 Members and Members are present. 62 were voted in favour and no one was against. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 19th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Elections Act of the President of the Republic. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Elections of the President of the Republic is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. 81 Members and Members are present. 62 were voted in favour and no one was against. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the question of Members and Members. A review of the draft conclusions of Members and Members for the debate on the replies of the President of the Government, ministers and ministers has been published on the e-club. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Jožet Tank, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to Mr Jožet Tank's question on system-wide investigations. Mr Jože Tanko has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Regardless of the fact that we have the National Investigation Office, that we have the Special Prosecutor's Office, that we have the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and the Commission of Inquiry in the National Assembly, which is already investigating TEC, the banks will probably still be, the government has decided to make a commission of inquiry from the former officials of these institutions. The problem is that all of these former officials who were employed in the NPU, KPK, the Special Prosecutor's Office, and elsewhere, could have done their job by the time this bank hole was created, investigated and processed; but that was not the case. The fact that the problem is in some way even greater shows that the government has decided to take full control of investigations and developments in the banking system, although in the vast majority of these institutions there is a congregation that can appoint its supervisors and these directors; it covers the entire vertical. Some members, former members of these independent institutions, such as former President of KPK Kos or former Vice-President of KPK Praprotnik, have already engaged in one way or another in the biggest bank hole that these commissions are supposed to investigate; on the other hand, a plaza of employees from the KPK has now entered the Ministry of Justice. In short, there's a system that's going to be run in a controlled way. Such an investigative commission will not be credible, that's for sure. And another issue is that one of the political parties who is no longer in the National Assembly and is involved in the TES and the bank hole in one way or another, has proposed to the former KPK President, who is now the Minister, the establishment of exactly such an investigative commission. This is an organised performance of those who, by 2014, have practically monitored the whole event in the banking system, in the TES and in other major projects of state importance. In this way, if I recall you, the Anti-Corruption Commission was also set up, because in 2003-2004, when much was said about corruption in Telekom, the reply of the government of Rope was the establishment of a Commission to prevent corruption. I suggest you support our request to discuss the Government's response, because this is the only way to further clarify these matters and [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u202	We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 15 for them and 55 for them. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 55.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Luke Mesca, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr. Mir Cerar, to the question of Mr Mesca on the sale of Telekom Slovenije d.d. An explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors shall be given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u203	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I asked Mr. Prime Minister yesterday about the sale of Telekom. I asked him four questions, the first of which was regarding the pre-election promises made by Mr Mir Cerar and his client regarding Telekom, which were quite clear, so that if he could get a chance to form a government, he would not sell. It was of interest to me in this light that the party, or he too, had eaten the personal pre-election promise in this respect and that he considered that he still had a democratic mandate for this act. Then I asked him a few more questions about the price, with the responsibility of the government, by calling on SDH supervisors to sell and so on. On the first question, as regards pre-election promises and later actions, I received a rather turbulent response. But there were no answers to other questions. As this is becoming increasingly suspicious, I think it would be time for us to discuss this in the National Assembly, because the Prime Minister will obviously not give himself any answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u204	We're voting. 62 Members and Members were present, with 10 votes against 51. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. A little peace! In accordance with the proposal of Mr Marijan Pojbič, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mr Zdravko Pojbilska, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, to Mr Marijan Pojbič's question on the requirements of Slovenian craft and entrepreneurship. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 8 votes against 55. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 55.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Miha Kordiša, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Culture mag. Juliane Bizjak Mlakar to Miha Kordiša's question on media legislation. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 50. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Mr Logar will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac, Minister for Foreign Affairs, to the question of mags. Anzeta Logar concerning the entry into the territory of the Russian Federation. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 8 votes against 56. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 56.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Ambassador Jani Möderndorfer, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Culture Mag. Juliane Bizjak Mlakar on Mr Jani Möderndorfer's question on the cooperation of the Ministry of Culture with the professional and interested public. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 48. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Franz Breznik, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Maje Makovec Brenčič to Mr Franz Breznik's question on vocational education. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 8 votes against 54. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 54.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Franz Trcko, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Mr Zdravek Třček, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, to the question of the mission of Dr Franc Trč in connection with the development of tourism. The United Left shall have an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u205	Thank you for your word, chairman. As you know, I have linked the issue of the development lagging behind of the good part of Slovenia and the debate on tourism as one of the key points of the so-called Smart Specialisation Strategy, with which I have spent more than half a year marinating the Minister. Since we are talking about this tourism on all sides, but not to pursue it thoroughly, we expect the United Left to support this proposal for a debate. At the same time, I asked the Minister twice specifically in my address to answer me on the issue of tourism in the region from which I come – the Maribor region. We have closed hotels on Pohorje, as you know. How will the stakeholders in the local, regional environment be dealt with by this Gordy knot? At the same time, I asked him twice about the decision of the former government, the government of Alenka Bratušek on the development aid to Maribor; but apparently Mr. Restovalšek did not hear. Usually in the White Land, when we say twice in the mill, it sounds. This is also why we would need this debate to get the answer from our side of the Trojan to these questions. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u206	We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 46. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Anja Bah Žibert, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Public Administration, Boris Koprivnik, to Mrs Anje Bah Žibert's question on the preparation and establishment of provincial legislation, in accordance with Article 143 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u207	Your Honor! When we talk about the provinces, we are talking about a constitutional category; the fact is that we still do not have a province. Minister Koprivnikar said in the media that a strategy for the further development of local self-government was being prepared. In your coalition agreement, you have stated that this strategy will also answer questions about provincial legislation or the establishment of landscapes. Of course, on the question of how far we are with this legislation, the Minister was still very unclear. As the strategy is being prepared and the shift from getting this provincial legislation is considerable, I propose that we have a broader debate on this issue, to see where we are in the country and when the landscapes will finally come to life.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u208	There are 64 Members and Members present, 10 votes in favour, 49 votes in favour. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Jožef Horvat, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr Anje Kopač Dark to the question of Mr Horvat's delegation concerning the abolition of the Erasmus + grant programme at the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for the development of staff and scholarships. We vote. 65 Members and Members present, 7 votes to 50. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Janko Webr, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Mumorr, to Mr Janko Webra's question on access to credits in state banks. Mr Janko Weber has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SD Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u209	Thank you for your word, President. I asked Dr. Marble's Minister of Finance whether he was aware of the European Commission's decisions imposing on Slovenian banks to offer substantially poorer conditions to borrowers than other business banks. As a result, many are borrowing loans from foreign banks and, on the other hand, the European Commission is always setting us back on a condition of balanced finance, which you cannot possibly achieve if we do not try to invest all the funds we have actually invested in the recapitalisation of banks in our economic development, in economic growth and thus in the balance of public finances. Although the Minister acknowledged that these two decisions existed, he did not explain the content of these two decisions. It is therefore right for the National Assembly to have these two decisions in mind, to have a debate, and thus to do our duty, to decide in advance on such important acts as the fiscal rule that we are aware of all the activities that the European Commission is taking, in this case even against Slovenia. I am convinced that this is also contrary to the fundamental principles of the functioning of the European Union, and I am sure that these two decisions are also contrary to the constitutional principles of the Republic of Slovenia. Such a situation is extremely worrying and it is right and necessary for the National Assembly to hold a debate on this subject. I propose that we allow this debate to be supported by this proposal for a debate that I have put forward; and the National Assembly is truly aware of such harmful decisions for the development of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u210	We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 41. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Ljub Žnidar, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšič, to the question of Mr Ljub Žnidar, on the State Spatial Plan for Portorož. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 5 votes against 51. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with Mr Andrej Couch's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for Dr Anje Kopač Dark to Mr Andrej Couch's question on volunteer traineeships. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 5 votes against 51. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Mahnič, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Defence, Mrs Andreja Katič, to Mr Jana Mahnič's question on the preparation of the new Defence Act. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 5 votes against 56. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 56.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Matjaž Hanžka, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mr Petar Gasperšič to the question of Mr Matjaž Hanžk on the implementation of the construction preparations II. A block of the Krusko Nuclear Power Plant. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 10 votes against 48. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with Mr Matjaž Germany's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Maje Makovec Brenčič to Mr Matjaž Germany's question on the envisaged amendments to the Law on Electronic Communications. Mr Matjaž Germany has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SD Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u211	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! In this privatisation nest, when we also touch on telecommunications and Telekom itself, we overlook one very important factor, and this is a security aspect. I have asked Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič a question regarding the publication on their website, which touches on the amendment of the Law on Electronic Communications. This debate will be just a matter of time before it is. My intention is to encourage her to open up as much as possible because she is too important and too difficult. In particular, I propose to consider amending Article 160, which speaks of lawful interception of communications, in paragraph 6, which speaks of interception of communication in international electronic communications networks; I apologize. The second part touches on thinking and to approach this very seriously and professionally, in particular by cooperating with the Office of the Information Commissioner of the text of the chapter of this Act which regulates the storage of data. [[Incomprehensible]] The debate is inevitable, but my main aim is to help the Minister with a joint debate to find a smart solution to the protection of our country, our national interests. We'll vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-09.ana.u212	We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. There were 17 votes in favour and 40 votes in favour. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm adjourning the ninth session of the National Assembly, which we'll resume tomorrow at 9 a.m.
