ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the seventh session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Tanja Zink, Mrs. Ksenija Korenjak Kramar, Violeta Tomić between 13 and 17:00, Mrs. Irena Grošelj Kosnik, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, Mrs. Ludmila Novak from 10.30 a.m. to 13 p.m. and from 2.30 p.m. to 16 p.m., Mrs. Iva Dimic to 10.30 p.m. and from 18 p.m. to 6 p.m., Dr. Milan Brglez from 17:00 p.m., Mr. Matjaž Germany, Matjaž Hanžek, mag. Andrej Šircelj, Mr Jan Mahnic, Mr Andrej Čuš, Mr Ljubo Žnidar by 3 p.m., Mr Janez Janša, Mr Jožef Horvat by 11.30 p.m. Matthew Tonin from 13 to 16:00. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 14. On the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Collections of Health Protection Data, the first defence. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, 51 Members and Members of Parliament, signed first by Dr Simono Kustec Lipicer, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u2	Good afternoon. Well-welcome, distinguished President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! You have before you the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Databases in the Field of Health Care; following a regular procedure. The substance of the amendments and additions relates to the provision of legal bases allowing the electronicisation of health processes such as eRecept, eProcurement, interoperable spine and many others; and thus the elimination of administrative barriers in healthcare providers and patients, as well as other minor changes. The amendments are from the partial transposition of Directive 2011/24/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 March 2011 on the exercise of patients' rights in cross-border healthcare as regards the transfer of the definition of health documentation; and the harmonisation of the law with the Law on Offences and the Law on Health Activities and the renaming of the Ministry responsible for health to the Ministry of Health. The use of eHealth electronic services should be extended to the national level as soon as possible in Slovenia in order to be used by all healthcare providers. The proposed law will make this possible by establishing legal bases, ensuring clearly defined data collection and processing in eHealth databases and allowing eHealth services to be provided electronically at national level as a normal way of working in healthcare. This will allow us to take a step forward with other European countries, which unfortunately are overcoming us in development in this area. The tasks of the database manager eHealth by this proposal are taken over by the National Institute for Public Health, thereby extending its tasks as one of the central managers of the personal data databases in the field of health. The Centre for Informatics in Health, which is already an organisational unit at the National Institute for Public Health, will start its tasks related to eHealth on 1 December of this year. On this date, he will take over all the documentation, archives, tasks and rights and obligations under the Treaties from the Ministry. By 1 December 2015, the Ministry of Health will carry out these tasks and competences of the Information Centre. While the bill introduces legal bases for eHealth in a way that introduces e-business in health at national level and nine new databases in the field of health. The key database of the bill is the so-called Central Patient Register, which contains two types of patient data that have permanent or temporary residence in the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. a summary of patient data and a database of patients' health and other documentation. This information will be used to allow access to and exchange of information for the provision of emergency medical care, for the provision of other medical care and for the provision of a mortuary transparent service. This database will then be updated on the basis of basic health documentation data and will also be used for analytical, statistical and research purposes. Data collection from the central registry is generally only allowed in the exercise of patient health care. Data acquisition in operators in the Republic of Slovenia is permitted without the consent of the patient, and the consent of the patient is required for operators abroad. The patient has the right to prohibit access to the summary of patient data by means of a written statement. At the same time, this bill will expose 6 additional databases containing clinical data such as eTip, eOrder, eRecept, eTriaža, TeleKap, Log of Teleradiological Investigations, eCommunications; and an additional two databases, this will be the User Registry of eHealth and User Records [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u3	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word shall be given by the Group of Social Democrats, in its name mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u4	Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleague, colleague! Today we are starting to consider the law, which is essential for the implementation of the eHealth project. This is a novelty of the Law on databases in the field of health care, whose key objective is to allow, as soon as possible, limited means to introduce tested eHealth solutions at national level. The proposed law will allow eHealth services to be extended to the national level by all healthcare providers, while ensuring clearly defined data collection and processing in eHealth databases. The exchange of data between different health care providers is still lacking in us and is practically entirely on paper and to a limited extent via compulsory health insurance systems; or is even transferred from the operator to the operator by patients themselves. As the proponents state, the daily experience and infirmity of patients and health personnel and some, unfortunately, unfortunate cases in practice have undoubtedly shown that the lack of modern procedures is clear and for all the foreseeable internal business arrangements involved and modern information support, particularly clinical tasks, one of the pressing problems of Slovenian health. A large number of different actors are involved in the health system, which is why we are talking about a complex system that needs the greatest possible measure of operationalisation and optimisation so that the data exchange process is as rational as possible. The eHealth project represents one of the major public service information projects. It brings together activities to implement the use of communication and information resources in the field of health, which will enable it to provide more effective public health services. The results of eHealth will allow health care to be better adapted to individuals, facilitate mobility and patient safety, reduce the cost of health services and support interoperability in the country and across borders. The eHealth project is not only a technological solution, but it is a new approach to the establishment of a public-centred health system. Health workers involved in the eHealth project expect that the results of the project will allow more comprehensive and quality treatment of patients and better cooperation with clinical specialists and other health professionals. Most importantly, they consider the active involvement of patients in the treatment process and their greater care for their own health. As stated, the eHealth project is one of the largest national information projects. The results of the sub-projects will enable the implementation of the key strategic objectives set by the Ministry of Health: to increase the quality and effectiveness of the health system, including better planning and implementation of the health organisation or health system as a whole, based on quality, credible, economic, administrative and clinical data of the health system; to mobilise appropriate information and comprehensive quality solutions in health care; to improve the availability of health services for those groups of individuals who would otherwise be excluded for their reduced abilities, such as age and other reasons; and to implement e-business as a normal way of working in Slovenian health. The novelty follows the principle of comprehensive treatment and quality healthcare. It will enable the electronic provision of eHealth services at national level as a normal way of working in health and will also provide a legal basis for quality, friendly and efficient healthcare. We believe that the proposed novels are appropriate, so we will support the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u5	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, in its name Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. In the Group of Members, the United Left is in principle in agreement with the content of the proposal and we will support the law at first reading. We will finally define ourselves after second reading on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the responses of the experts to be invited to the meeting of the home committee. For each large database of personal data, protection of privacy must be ensured and system abuse must be avoided. Remember the story of a former politician who had cancer; even before she was able to tell her family, the Romanian media wrote about it. Although this incident was not related to the use of the information system, this cautioned that the patient’s dignity should be maximized when handling the data. The law in this area provides, among other things, that the patient may prevent access to certain data. In the case of operators abroad, access is generally prohibited and can be explicitly permitted by the patient. In the case of performers, however, it is the other way around. Domestic operators have access if the patient does not explicitly prohibit it. We are certainly interested in how this right will be regulated so that patients will even know and enforce it. The explanation does not explain in more detail how patients can access the eHealth system and what can be managed through this system. We know that most orders are still on the phone, which is too late. Although some hospitals have an email ordering system; but it doesn't work. These services will, of course, develop, but it is possible to define the possibilities offered by the system, since this is the input data for the conclusion of contracts with hardware and software suppliers. We are in the United Left to develop a modern and useful information system that will also be user-friendly. However, it should be borne in mind that health services are most needed by the elderly and some other socially disadvantaged groups who do not have access to the Internet or who do not know how to use computer applications. Since it is not clearly defined which patient services will be performed under this project, it is not possible to assess the difficulties this could cause to these patients; however, priority should be given to and protection in the implementation of this vulnerable group. Further clarifications would be needed on the deadlines for data storage. The law provides that certain data are kept permanently while others are kept temporarily. In the new point 14b of Article 2.e provides that data on major medical interventions shall be kept without a time limit, while data on medical conditions and medical interventions shall be stored for the last six months in accordance with point 3.c. We're wondering what will be the criteria for separating major medical interventions from other interventions? If we have such a rich database and if it is adequately secured, it makes sense to store as much data as possible that may be useful for the patient or medical research. The transition to a new system always requires certain adjustments. Software should be installed and healthcare professionals should be taught to use it properly. It's not a banal thing. We know that a data exchange centre should already be established on the basis of the current law adopted in 2000. This has not happened; the Ministry of Health carries out these tasks to a certain extent. The proposal foresees that these tasks will be undertaken by the Centre for Informatics in Health at the National Institute for Public Health. The explanation states that the funds for this transfer are provided. This is about 14 million in the coming years, from 2015 to 2017. In view of the fact that 10 people are expected to be employed to maintain the system, one of them at the Ministry, staying at the NICU, these are quite high funds. In this regard, we would be interested in how health workers will be able to use the new system? We hear from health workers and other public officials, such as social workers, that administrative tasks take time to carry out their basic activities. The principles of the law also state that health workers must be as burdened as possible with administrative and financial tasks in order to devote most of the resources to the treatment and development of the profession. I couldn't agree more; but one is principles, and the other is practice. We have a lot of private concessionaires in health care, but we have a lot more in family medicine and specialists. According to the latest data, almost 14% of compulsory insurance funds are received by private operators. The Institute has concluded contracts with 219 public institutions and with as many as a thousand 560 private contractors. This is not economical in terms of reducing the costs of directing and decommissioning doctors. Instead of one person performing administrative work for 10 doctors in a health care institution, in private people this work often falls on one doctor and a nurse to avoid even talking about the costs of software and hardware if it is used by only one doctor. I want to say that the effectiveness of eHealth will also depend on the rationalisation of the health network and on the strengthening of healthcare homes and other public institutions. We would also expect an explanation as to whether the doctor and the nurse will have more work to do due to this new system. Recording all this information takes time. If the data are entered incorrectly or poorly, it is useless or harmful. What, then, does the new system in practice require of health workers? Article 14b also provides that insurance undertakings carrying out voluntary health insurance must send data to the Central Data Register. As long as supplementary health insurance is still available, such information is essential. Insurance companies are already running it and already health professionals have information on the patient’s additional insurance. Complementary health insurance is ineffective because too little insurance money comes into the health system. Complementary health insurance is not solidarity because premiums are the same regardless of whether you have a ministerial salary or a minimum wage. The Coalition has committed itself to making up for private insurance through public contributions, which we naturally support in the United Left. In view of the abolition of the supplementary insurance, it would make sense to maintain the existing reporting system for these insurance undertakings. It doesn't make sense for anyone to have extra expenses. The explanation does not indicate whether any additional investments are envisaged; if so, it would be reasonable to maintain the current system until the end. In the United Left, we will support the law at first reading. As you can see, we have a number of questions that are quite technical in nature. As it is not a matter of a secular law, we are surprised that the coalition has proposed a first hearing in plenary, and we do not understand what this is about. In our view, it would be more reasonable for the law to be dealt with by the Committee first. Experts and health professionals can answer all our practical questions on the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u7	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, on her behalf, Mr Jernej Vrtovec, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u8	Dear President, colleague and colleague, distinguished Madam Minister! The proposal for a health database law complements the existing law, which has already been adopted in 2000 and has never been amended before. This is yet another proof of how thorough health reform is needed for New Slovenia, including in dealing with sensitive personal data in health care. With the proposed amendment, the Government wants to establish a legal basis for databases in the eHealth pilot project so far and to identify their controller. It also wants to establish a health information centre as part of the National Institute for Public Health, which is intended to ensure the smooth, uniform and coordinated functioning of the health information and communication system. These tasks are expected to be proposed by 1. 12. This year, 2015, the Ministry of Health carried out this year and would then be fully transferred to the National Institute for Public Health. Legal bases are thus provided for the newly emerging eHealth databases, namely the Central Register of Patient Information and nine databases. In New Slovenia we would like to highlight the importance of the safety of the new communication system, which is established in health care. Above all, we are concerned about the way the data is secure or accessible. In New Slovenia, we support digital inclusion in more and more business and health processes; of course, with adequate legal bases and user safety. When we're in the health field, it's all the more sensitive. This is extremely sensitive data, where every minimum possibility of unauthorised access and access to it must be prevented. The establishment of such a new and mass database of sensitive personal data for eHealth is a major financial and organisational asset. This also raises the issue of the operation of the IT centre. Will this service be independent, with the employment of highly qualified personnel, or will it only take care of the coordination of the various implementing contracts with subcontractors of the establishment of eHealth collections? What is the financial framework for this big investment? We rightly fear that all these collections will not be established for much longer, let alone in use. For illustration, only one statement that the existing law provided for the establishment of a data exchange centre that had never lived in practice. Nor is the concept of health documentation defined anywhere in national legislation, but according to the applicant it is definitive. In New Slovenia, we believe that the founder must first decide how to arrange the information link between the operators, especially the 26 hospitals. If it does not want a single information system for all operators, it should at least require the integration of these systems on a single platform, so that, for example, a doctor at the University Clinical Centre Ljubljana will be able to verify where the individual patient is already a medicine whose investigations have been made and what the results of these investigations are. Otherwise, we will get another system that will not be connected to the National Institute for Public Health, not to the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, but to the Ministry of Health; it will not be available to operators or patients at all. The draft law further specifies eHealth users who are natural and legal persons. These are, for example, patients, health care providers and so on. They also specifically identify mandatory users, who are already health professionals after the proposal of the law, while other mandatory users are not yet definitive in view of the development of eHealth, so that they can be appointed by the Minister by means of a sub-law. However, we wonder whether this is what is a blank currency for the various additions and processing of yet indeterminate users of eHealth. Therefore, due to the operation of the eHealth project, new sets of sensitive personal data are created in most cases in a single way, which is of course desirable for paper operations to be kept as low as possible and hand-to-hand as possible; however, due to the huge amount of sensitive data, a high level of safety must also be ensured. In New Slovenia we also propose that the law itself define what will be the key to patient data, what will be the basis. Will it be an EMHO, a tax number or a ZZS number? After that, all users and contractors will agree with the software houses to adapt. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Minister! We will not support the first reading of the proposal by the Christian Democrats, nor will we oppose it. However, we believe in improvements to the existing law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u9	The text shall be given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, Mr Branko Zorman, on its behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u10	Dear President, Honourable Minister and other representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Databases in the Field of Health provides a legal basis for the creation of a better quality, friendly and effective, we can say modern healthcare business. This is one of the major public service information projects that will enable the eHealth project to remove administrative barriers in patients and healthcare providers. This will allow health care to be better adapted to individuals, facilitate mobility and patient safety, reduce the cost of health services, influence the efficiency of administration, allow for equal treatment of patients and introduce other significant improvements in the treatment of healthcare data. In Slovenia, we face problems of poor data exchange in health care, as this is often linked to the responsibility of individual patients; the exchange of important documentation is still in physical, paper form. With a view to regulating this area, the proposal lays down rules for the establishment of a single, comprehensive and harmonised system, which is closely linked to the further development of the eHealth project, which will be implemented at national level and can be applied by all healthcare providers, which will finally put us in line with more developed European countries. The law will clearly specify the collection and processing of data in databases and their administrator, the National Institute for Public Health, which will support and ensure smooth, secure, reliable and legally defined eHealth eHealth e-business. The eHealth project was envisaged for the first time in the 2006-2012 development programme plan, which was also adopted by the National Assembly with the 2008 and 2009 budget. In part, the eHealth project is financed by the European Social Fund, which means that its implementation and achievement will be verified by 2018. The pilot project has already shown positive responses from patients and health personnel and has shown good results following EU guidelines. Most of the concerns about the past implementation of the eHealth project were raised by the Court of Auditors' 2014 evaluations, which verified the period from 1 January 2004 to 26 September 2013. It concluded that the project did not reach substantive and staffing-organisational plans at the time, not financial and forward-looking plans. These findings of the audit report have raised questions about the transparency of business in the past and we expect that irregularities have also been properly addressed and investigated by the competent authorities. Nevertheless, the Ministry of Health has brought the project to a final stage, just before it is established at national level, so in the SMC Group we support the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Databases, which will finally enable the eHealth project to be launched. The proposed changes and the establishment of the eHealth project will allow a patient, as a basic member of healthcare, a more quality and effective health system, which includes better planning and management of the health organisation or healthcare system than the whole on the basis of quality and reliable economic, administrative and clinical data of the health system. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we believe that the bill contains the necessary changes in the direction of upgrading the information system in Slovenian health care, and we therefore support the proposal for further consideration of the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u11	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nada Brinovšek, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u12	President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to everyone else in the hall! One of the pressing problems of our poor health system is the exchange of information between different health care providers and patients. This exchange is lacking and currently takes place mostly in paper form; partly through compulsory health insurance systems or the documentation is transferred from the operator to the healthcare provider by patients themselves. The Ministry of Health carried out an e-project on the basis of the European funds allocated, in the test environment at the primary and secondary level and, of course, with the consent of patients. The project showed that patients and healthcare professionals have confirmed usability, reliability and, above all, self-accessibility to data and documents. Of course, it is among operators, real health professionals or more precisely among doctors, including some who oppose the introduction of information support. This was traced from the media, mainly from a number of elderly doctors who said they preferred to go to bed rather than to use a computer in their work. Given all the benefits of modern information technology, it is high time that eHealth is extended to the national level so that all healthcare providers and, of course, patients can use them. However, in order to ensure clearly defined data collection and processing and to enable the provision of eHealth services at national level, this should be regulated by amending legislation. While this is something new for the Ministry of Health, this is the first draft of a law or amendment that has come from the Ministry to the National Assembly in this mandate. As necessary as changes in this area. Here I have in mind, in particular, the Health Act, which has been in force since 1992, and which is still in need of verification. The existing law is called the Law on databases in the field of health care, which is still in force, regulates even a range of databases, but not independent databases and their administrators, which would primarily ensure safe and secure electronic operations. For this reason, legal bases for the newly emerging eHealth databases should also be laid down and delegated to the controller. The information system manager is supposed to be with this novel information centre in health, which already operates as an organisational unit at the National Institute for Public Health. In view of the amendment of this law, the Centre for Informatics in Health is expected to start carrying out its work 1. 12. This year, from the Ministry of Health, which is currently implementing the eHealth project in testing environments, it will take over equipment management and all unfinished matters, documentation and archives. It will also assume all the tasks, rights and obligations of the contracts relating to the eHealth project itself. The proposal for amendments to the law also provides for databases and 8 other eHealth databases. These databases are a central register of patient and database data such as eTip, eOrder, eRecept, eTriage and so on. The new law also provides that the Central Register of patient data may be obtained from the central register of residents, from the administrator of the home registry, the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia, from insurance companies and from the administrator of the register of spatial units. The amendment of the law also imposes on the Ministry of Health or, more precisely, the Ministry of Health a number of tasks such as the establishment of the tasks of the Centre for Informatics in Health, the identification of mandatory users of eHealth, the establishment of conditions, deadlines and the method of integration and use of eHealth, the establishment of conditions for the management of databases in electronic form and the conditions which the patient's medical and other documentation may contain a central patient registry. All these changes must be issued by the Minister within one month of the entry into force of this Act, in accordance with this amendment. We will closely monitor the implementation of these conclusions in the Slovenian Democratic Party. The eHealth project, which will be financed in the future by the state budget for 2015-2018, will be burdened by the state budget of €14.4 million. In view of the level of the funds invested, we can only hope that the eHealth project will be able to be acceptable to operators and patients and that it will also live in practice. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support the extension of the eHealth project to the national level and to all healthcare providers and patients, so we will also support the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u13	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Tomaž Gantar, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u14	Dear President, Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! There are several countries that deal with these sensitive health data in specific legislation, and our existing legislation does not allow the eHealth project to work, for which a number of European funds have been allocated so far, and which is generally important further to the effective functioning of the health system. We are looking ahead to the first review of the proposed amendment of the Health Information Databases Act, which introduces e-business in healthcare at national level and several new databases in the field of health, including the Central Register of Patient Information. Some of the services of the eHealth project have already been tested in the test environment, so the first essential objective of the amendment proposal is to enable the introduction of tested eHealth solutions to the national level. The law currently in force does not allow for secure, reliable and legally defined eHealth e-business. The existing law defines a data exchange centre that has never actually come to life. The new proposal provides for the establishment of a health information centre to ensure the functioning of a single and coordinated health information system at national level and to operate on a single information and communication infrastructure. Although the Centre for Informatics in Health is already an organisational unit of the National Institute for Public Health. The tasks of healthcare are transferred to this centre. The Centre will allow the transmission and processing of health data and services within eHealth, this is eRecept, eProcurement, eTriaža, TeleCap and other services. The novel will provide a basis for quality, friendly and efficient healthcare business through eHealth services. Particular attention is and must be paid to the protection of privacy, one of the fundamental human rights enshrined in the Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights. While European legislation itself does not specify exactly the individual forms of health data collection and processing, safety in health data is crucial. In addition to the legal basis necessary for the operation and establishment of eHealth, the law will enable operators to have professional, quality and effective services for the purpose of uniform and comparable processing and exchange of data and documents. There is also an urgent and meaningful legal regime that will ensure the connectivity and compatibility of health information systems and the compatibility of health data found in different databases. At the same time, in the Desus Group, we are concerned about the financial consequences of the law, which are described above all for the following years 2016 and 2017, for which the financial resources in the budget are yet to be provided. In view of the importance and content of the proposed law, both Members and Members of the Desus Group consider the proposal of the amendment to the law to be suitable for further consideration and, of course, we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u15	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor to prepare Mrs Erika Dekleva.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u16	Dear colleagues and colleagues! When we listened to the views of all the parliamentary groups, we could see that this was an extremely important law. The fact is that personal data are extremely sensitive and the legal regime itself must be appropriate. But I have another question — in addition to what I have already stressed in my position and the connection of the system with the hospitals themselves — but if I stay at the hospitals. It is essential that we do not have additional administrative problems. It is said that this database will be available to the National Institute for Public Health, then to the Ministry of Health and the ZZS. This system must actually be connected so that everyone involved will really know about the patient, for example XY, Janez Novak, whether he was already being treated, how he was being treated, what he had, etc. What's important is this information on all these levels that I've listed. Furthermore, Madam Minister and staff, I have one question. It follows from the bill that the National Institute for Health Protection for the Central Register of Patient Information, it is also said from insurance undertakings carrying out voluntary health insurance, will obtain free data on voluntary health insurance. The contracts, including those contained in the law, will agree on a procedure and a way of exchanging these data. My question is whether this means that insurance companies will have a certain obligation to provide data without payment of costs; or whether this will result in any costs. In the case of a rapid review, this was not the most consistent understanding. That's it. If there is any other matter, we will continue to contact you in Novi Slovenija. But I would point out that this law is necessary. It is also necessary to amend the bill itself if you want New Slovenia to contribute its votes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u17	Mrs. Erika Girl has the floor. Get Mr. Marijan Pojbič ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. As my colleague said, this marriage is really necessary, so we will support it and we will support it ourselves. I agree that at this point we are likely to face many more questions, but this is the first consideration of the law and I believe that in the end there will be no more open questions or dilemmas. At present, the bill provides only a legal basis for establishing, above all, an effective business in health care. It may not be necessary to point out that the exchange of important documents in Slovenia is still in physical form, which is at the moment at least inappropriate; it is, of course, an individual's responsibility to deal with these data, costs and other things. The bill before us lays down rules for the establishment of a data exchange system and this is closely linked to the development of the eHealth project, which, in my opinion, should already be implemented at national level. Notwithstanding all the funds that have been invested in this eHealth project so far, or precisely because of this large amount of funding, it is necessary to allow the already tested solutions to be put into practice as soon as possible. The eHealth project as a pilot project has been tested in some environments and praised by patients and healthcare professionals. The fact is that this will relieve the health business in order to reduce administrative obstacles for patients. We can also expect better quality, accessibility, but we can also mention the positive effects the project will have on the environment. Of course, it is high time we took a step with other European countries, which are far ahead of us in this area. It is also true that a great shadow has fallen on the project in the past, and I am talking about a negative assessment of the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors audited the project from 2004 to 2013. Unfortunately, many governments, many more ministers, have changed at this time, but at this point we can only say that the project may not have been carried out in a very transparent manner by this time. I only hope that the competent authorities will deal intensively with this and that in the end someone will be responsible for all mistakes, pointless and irresponsible spending of taxpayers' money. We can now say that the bill contains the necessary changes in the direction of upgrading the information system in Slovenian health; and I will therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u19	Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor. Get Mrs. Marusha Skopac ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I must say that in a situation like our health system, I am personally very happy with every solution that is within this system and that comes to the table in the National Assembly and improves the situation in this area. I think that the law that is under consideration today is one of the laws that go in the right direction. And today, if I have listened well to the views of the members of the groups, it is positive that you have drawn up a law that is practically not enough to add to it. And I think it is right that we support the good solutions proposed by the Government, whether we are in coalition or opposition. And, of course, I will support this marriage for two reasons. The first is that this law provides a legal basis for e-commerce at national level and in a uniform manner. Secondly, it removes administrative obstacles. This seems so much more important to me, because if we look at our systems and subsystems, we have an extremely large number of administrative obstacles, and that's why there are consequences that would otherwise not have happened if the matter were normally going on, along certain specific lines. I am confident that this law will reduce these administrative obstacles and thus ensure that staff working in the healthcare system and also patients are more satisfied. And if we are going this way, I think it is right that we support such proposals of law. Of course, I will support this bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u21	Mrs. Marusha Škopac has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Branko Zorman.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u22	Today, the exchange of information between different health service providers takes place practically on paper, except to a limited extent via health insurance systems. Given the age of technological development, such a system is very outdated, cost-effective and has many shortcomings. The law that we are considering today is a prerequisite for us to inform communication within the health system. It will enable and clearly define the collection and processing of data in eHealth databases and enable the electronic provision of services at national level as a normal way of working in health. The eHealth project is nothing new, since it has been dragged since 2005. He's finally supposed to be alive by the end of this year. It promises to improve accessibility to health care and improve efficiency and productivity in the healthcare system. The introduction of the eHealth service will have a major impact on the decommissioning of healthcare operations, as the bill pursues the objective of a quality, friendly and efficient healthcare business. It will significantly reduce administrative barriers to patients and the amount of administrative work for healthcare professionals, as the electronic management of health databases will affect the quality and equality of treatment. The bill establishes several collections that will work within the eHealth system. These are eTraža, eTraža and eCommunications, eRecept users' logs for remote access, eTriaža, TeleKap, eCommunications, Logs of teleradiological investigations of the Republic of Slovenia and accompanying database User records of eHealth solutions. And what does eRecept specifically mean, and how will it work? When visiting a patient with a chronic disease, your doctor may select medicines with all the necessary information and will take a look at the rules already prepared. This approach significantly accelerates the introduction of administrative data as they have already been completed and sometimes only need minor corrections. It is also important that the information system assists physicians in deciding whether to use each medicinal product in a particular risk group with controls and how individual medicinal products work in combination with other medicinal products. Your doctor will have a new look at all prescribed medicines from a specific patient and thus will not prescribe a medicine that has a negative effect on the functioning of the medicines already prescribed. In addition, the eRecept solution allows a doctor to implement the prescription without the patient being present and to place the prescription in the central part of the solution. The patient can visit the nearest pharmacy without a doctor’s visit, on the basis of a health insurance card it is identified with the pharmacist, and this eRecept solution from the central part reads all the recipes that are not yet published. The patient then receives the medicine, which is also visible on the part of the personal physician if he makes a inquiry for a particular patient. The introduction of eRecept for the patient represents quite a few changes. The first is for sure that after the national introduction of the solution, when all pharmacies are included in the eRecept, prescription medicines can only be picked up with their health insurance card. Another advantage is that it will be possible for it to obtain prescription medicines, such as for chronic therapy, in agreement with its personal physician, without a visit to the infirmary. The third advantage will be for the patient to experience when visiting a pharmacy, as the rapid procedure of issuing prescriptions will make him wait for much less than was necessary for the production of classic paper recipes, and the possibility of errors that can occur today in the case of unreadable prescriptions will also be addressed. The law under consideration contains the necessary changes for the use of the upgrading of the information system in health care, and we will therefore absolutely support the proposal in our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u23	Mr Branko Zorman has the floor to prepare himself for the mag. Margareta Guček Zakošek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u24	President, thank you for your word. As mentioned more than once, this bill provides some legal basis for the completion of the eHealth project. Above all, the implementation of this project will remove administrative obstacles for operators and patients. The law establishes e-business in healthcare at national level for all healthcare providers and introduces 9 new databases. All these databases will be managed by the National Institute for Public Health – or within it, the Centre for Informatics in Health, which will also be the custodian of eHealth and will take care of the smooth implementation of this. I would like to touch on these 9 introductions; some are already in pilot projects, that is to say in function. The rest will come in line when eHealth is fully operational. The most important and comprehensive collection is the so-called CRPP, which is the Central Register of Patient Information, which will cover all patient and patient parental data, medical and other documentation. All this data will come from different sources, from the central register of the population and from the home registry, from the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia and from all insurance companies offering voluntary additional health insurance. It is intended to enable operators of this central registry, operators at home and abroad to access and exchange data, in particular in the implementation of emergency medical care, other medical care, mortis-transparent services and to update data in the patient's health documentation. The patient is allowed or allowed to look into his or her data. It will also be allowed to prohibit access to certain data contained in this register. In principle, it is considered that a patient, unless declared in writing against this, is allowed in Slovenia to have access to his documentation by all healthcare providers for whom he will be treated. It's not like he's abroad. A patient's strict written consent is required abroad. Otherwise, a foreign operator cannot look into the patient’s data. Another very important collection is eTravel and eOrder. What will that do? eAccommodation and e-Procurement will enable electronic ordering; what has not been possible so far, and in particular the reduction of procurement procedures. At the same time, all information on the service providers will be collected in one place. What does that mean? A national waiting list and an exchange of information within this list will be established, which means that a patient who wishes to order a certain check on the basis of a travel authorisation will be able to choose the provider of this service, have a waiting list and will be able to decide on the basis of these waiting lines where to apply for this review. As an example, when we get a guide for a specialist examination, we need to go to a doctor by now, get a paper-based guide, send a guide to this contractor to a hospital or a tercian. Now that will no longer be necessary, now this will be all arranged electronically, there will be no sending, and at the same time the patient will be able to set an exact time limit for his examination in advance. The third collection is eRecept, which has also been piloted in some places. What does that mean? That means greater security. In the event of a drug interaction, the pharmacist or doctor will see automatically in the database that the patient is receiving another medicine, which may be interacting with a newly prescribed medicine, and will be able to react appropriately here. At the same time, your doctor will have the option of recording continuous therapy. In particular, there will be less administrative work for pharmacists in pharmacies. Again, when we needed a prescription, even if it was some kind of permanent therapy that could be life-threatening, we had to go after the prescription to the doctor, wait in the waiting room, burden the infirmary, of course. Recipes were limited or could only be ordered for a certain period. Then we had to wait in the pharmacy to process, scan all these recipes. All of this will go away with eRecept. The fourth database is eTriage. It is health care when conducting a triage procedure in healthcare homes and hospitals. This will reduce the clinical risk for patients and will guide the triage process with appropriate information support. For example, we all know what an emergency room is like, a large number of patients, a medical staff can't handle the opposite. Here this eTriage system will significantly facilitate the procedure. We also have a collection of TeleKap that allows for remote diagnosis of patients with stroke and the possibility of teleconsultation with a neurologist specialist in one of 12 hospitals across Slovenia. Again, in the case of some symptoms of the brain valve, diagnosis is carried out remotely and may then be taken in due time. The sixth record is the RS Teleradiological Survey Records, which means the possibility of remote reading of X-rays, i.e. remote diagnostics. Again with the case. Transfer of X-rays in case of transfer of a patient, all of these X-rays had to be transmitted physically so far, unless this was within an individual establishment. This will also allow for consultation of specialists in other institutions, i.e. distance consultation. And they're completely out of physical X-rays because everything will be in electronic form. The seventh record is a communication involving the integration of information systems for operators and the information system of the General Police Administration in the event of accidents, accidents, accidents, crimes and the like. In case the police have a case that has some medical consistency, they have so far been burdening the health care facility with questions. Now this will no longer be necessary, for they will only look inside the base and be able to connect and respond very quickly. In addition, there are two other databases which are not of a clinical nature, however – eHealth users' records, where data on eHealth users are managed; and User records for remote access. This is the management of user rights for remote access, in short, information resources in the so-called "NET Network". Most importantly in this project eHealth is that all these databases can be linked and can then be used positively. In short, the main task of eHealth is to remove administrative obstacles in operators and patients, which is why this law is more than necessary to make health finally come to life. For all these reasons, I will, of course, support this bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u25	The word has magic. Margareta Guček Zakošek, prepare the mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u26	Thank you, Madam President. A minister or a colleague or a colleague! Now we have heard an extensive explanation of what the first foundation of this law is for us. These are serious changes and I believe that this is the first step in what colleagues in New Slovenia are saying all the time – this is a reform of the health system. Therefore, I find it interesting that they will not support this at first reading. I believe that the law itself will see some changes, as technical things are likely to open up yet, but this is a matter of systemic change. It is that we have five key things that have not only been achieved by the developed European countries. We have a neighbouring Croatia across the border, which just in March introduced eProcurement and e-mail in essence. We have a case where HZZ and the Ministry of Health are successfully cooperating with the system itself. I would personally like our ZZZS to step in here with the Ministry of Health, because there is a power center and a financial centre there. This two-tier system, which was discussed by colleague Vrtovac, is also the primary centres where the founders of the municipality and where the information system is now set up on a second basis; to shrink species and move in the same direction. It should also be joined by JAZMP, because it is important information about medicines that can be found on the same basis in case of eRecept. I would conclude that this is the first time that it is a better and easier treatment of the patient, it is a better control and funding by the ZZS, it is a better safety for patients, I think the Agency for Medicinal Products; and, finally, it is a different division of the cake. Today, 13% of the ladies for medicines and medical devices, 10% of these 2.3 billion give for the rest of the equipment, and 75% of the money is on the organisation and system. This foundation today, which we are sending for further consideration, is one that I believe will change the organisation and the health system. Here you will see which stakeholders are able to take this path, where there will be the most resistance, certainly not in patients. The reasons why we don't have computers, we don't want to work with computers, they sure as hell aren't real. So I believe that this is the path to reforming the health system, and that is why I will also support this basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u27	The replica has Mr. Jernej Rotovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u28	Thank you very much. It is difficult to argue why Nova Slovenija will not support the law in question, but nevertheless, it seems that I was misunderstood, which is why this replica is very well founded. In the past, we have a lot of problems, in particular, with regard to databases and pooling these databases, etc. The whole public administration system has this problem and in the past we have not been able, for example, to combine one database centre together. That is why we are justified in our doubts about the link and regulation of the information link between operators, said mainly with 26 hospitals. Caution is the mother of wisdom. Because of this marriage, we will not support or oppose him. However, we have made it clear to our colleagues in the Ministry that we hope to get good answers as well. Mrs Guček, this is a long way from health reform, which is on the table. Far away. If you think this is part of a health reform, then let him have mercy on us above. I'm sorry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u29	Now he's got the word "magic." Bojana Muršič, prepare Mrs Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u30	Thank you very much, President, for your word. As we all know, we are living in the age of modern information and communication technology, which has already come to life with us in Slovenia. Unfortunately, in the field of health, this technology has not yet developed completely. While pilot projects have already been carried out, which have been partly co-financed by European funds, funding, as we know, is being completed at the end of the year. All too much today, patients face physical transmission, especially when you have a doctor’s check-up, and you don’t get an outpatient card right away. You might get it in a week, but at this time, you have a specialist checkup, and there's no ambulance. We urgently need these marriage solutions because access to and exchange of data is very sensitive, but there can be rapid abuses in its use. The legal changes we will adopt, or solutions, must be made possible in such a way as to allow for the exchange of new data in a centralised manner. I believe that this proposed law, which we have at our disposal, brings this. The proposed law establishes several collections – eTravel, eOrder, eRecept, eTriaža, eCommunication and more. All these collections represent a step forward in our health care. While we have been witnessing to some, including unfortunate, cases of practice that clearly demonstrate that the lack of modern procedures is clear and all predictable internal business arrangements and modern information support one of the pressing problems of Slovenian health care. So one more time. Today I am pleased to have in mind the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Collections Act which provides solutions to the eHealth project. I believe that by establishing the Central Register of Patient Data and other personal datasets, we will have positive effects in the conduct of health activities at home and abroad, as it will allow access to patient data for the purpose of carrying out emergency medical care, other health care, mortical screening services, updating of basic health documentation. Although a number of implementations have been carried out in the test environment in pilot health operators and also in those who wanted to participate. The results of the projects confirmed the usefulness, reliability, security of performance and, above all, the availability of data and those documents. It is essential that, at the shortest possible time, of course with limited means, we introduce tested eHealth solutions into the entire health system. Therefore, the proposed law is still important, as the principle of comprehensive treatment and quality healthcare requires that healthcare be carried out as a whole set of health services that effectively prevent diseases and also improve the health status of patients. With the use of modern information and communication technology, we will achieve quality, friendly and efficient healthcare business through the eHealth system. However, we must be particularly careful because this is a matter of exchanging sensitive information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u31	The word is Mrs. Jelka Godec. Mrs. Maria Antonija Kovacič should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that, President. I must say, if we are really saying today that these are health reforms, then I do not know why these reforms are known by doctors who today have a double sentence. It is also more than clear that we are being rushed by the European Union countries in all areas of health care. In order to allow health problems for the past few years, to increase waiting periods by 189% beyond the limit, it is also clear to everyone and it is not necessary to be employed in health care or to be a patient. In fact, every day we see these problems in the media, as well as in the general public, there is one health issue on the wallpaper every day. Today I would expect more to have on the table really systemic solutions in the health sector, so that we really have all the health reform on the table; and we would not now be talking about this as some major reform with this proposal to go to eHealth. I expect that today the media will write that our health care will suddenly be reformed and we will have better health care. I myself advocate this way, so, well, there is no problem with this view, because I am for the information society. I must say, thank God that this is on the table; I believe that this is not the first debate on this subject, because we have been dealing with this information system since almost 2006. This project should go somehow together, as I said, with the comprehensive development of the healthcare system in our country. However, as I said, we still have no better solutions, no better health care. We do not have standards and standards, and with this project we will only make a reduction in administration, which I believe will happen. So, here's one part of the change in health care is definitely detectable. However, I am interested because I did not see in the proposal – you say that waiting periods will also be reduced so that the system works better. At what percentage do you expect the waiting period to decrease due to the reduction of administrative barriers? The proposal also fails to identify exactly what safety standards or safety systems are. In the final form also this e-record, which the patient and the doctor have, in addition to the medical data I have observed, in other countries, and I think this is also foreseen in Slovenia, that in addition to the professional data, namely the patient’s health status, we also have other data from the social field, health care and so on. I therefore expect that further emphasis or preparation, presentation, should define the security of the data, as already pointed out by the predecessors. I hope that this bill will work in practice, as I said, because we have been working on this for ten years, that we have already put some 15 million euros into this project to plan more resources for this matter. However, as we have heard today, certain financial resources have not yet been provided in the budget, so I am very concerned whether this issue will even start to take place by 2018, as has been said; and I have also seen in the media that the matter is supposed to work by the end of 2015. From this point of view, the implementation of this law is questionable. Besides, it certainly does support that. However, I expect you to pay more attention in further readings – how much less waiting time you anticipate for the removal of administrative obstacles and what data security is like; we know that this is also a human factor. Even now that we are not yet so well-trained in health care, information is often leaked; then perhaps they will leak a little less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u33	Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič has the floor to prepare Mr Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. I will look into the bill with my debate, and the effectiveness of the one that has already been presented well, and I hope that we will see and feel, but I think it is positive. Modern information, communication technologies are well developed in the Republic of Slovenia. Mobile communications and content management ensure that different content is available to us — from work to entertainment — anywhere and at any time. Companies and public organisations shall manage all relevant content electronically and practically all their employees shall be kept in constant communication. Health care in the information age already carries out a number of projects whose successful results are tested electronic services that enable data collection and exchange and health documentation between different providers and various health-care activities in a modern, safe and efficient manner. The first objective is to ensure the functioning and application of the modern system of information technology and to ensure information security, integrity, security, accessibility and privacy of eHealth services, which need to be implemented at national level in a uniform manner. The current database law governs a whole range of databases, not their controller's databases, which would support, enable and ensure smooth, secure, reliable and legally defined eHealth eHealth e-business. It is therefore necessary to adapt and regulate the legal basis for new emerging eHealth databases and establish a health information technology centre that will ensure the functioning of a single and harmonised health information and communication system at national level, which will operate on a single information and communication infrastructure. Regulation of the eRecept electronic health record, eProcurement, e-change of data and documents and similarly requires some urgent specific provisions as well as clear rules of the game for all national institutions, health insurance companies, healthcare providers, suppliers, patients, non-governmental organisations and others. The second essential objective of the bill is to provide a legal basis for quality, friendly and efficient healthcare business through eHealth services. Operators, if they want to be effective and quality, must quickly start using eHealth services. The adoption of this law will enable operators and their processes to have legal, professional, quality and efficient electronic services for the purpose of uniform and comparable processing and exchange of data and documents. The Center for the Exchange of Information under Chapter 6 of the previous Act has never recovered, and a new information centre in health will be established in the amendment of the Law to establish and operate eHealth at the National Institute for Public Health, which will be a national, uniform and coordinated health information and communication system, which will operate on a single information and communication infrastructure. The bill provides for a database of eHealth, namely the Central Register of Patient Information, which contains two types of patient data – a summary of patient data and patient health and other documentation. However, the main purpose of the register is to provide access to and exchange of data at home and abroad in order to allow access to data for healthcare professionals involved in the treatment or health care of patients to ensure adequate, safe and quality health care and other care. Data for the central registry shall be obtained from the central register of the population, the home registry, health insurance, the insurance undertaking and others. The law also regulates high data security powers for all those authorised to provide and obtain data in and from the central register. And the data is stored until the patient dies. Sensitive personal data are kept in several collections – eTips, eOrders, eRecepts, zNET cards, eTriaži, TeleKap, eCommunications, Logs of teleradiological investigations; and accompanying collection of eHealth users. The new law provides, above all, a uniform information system at national level and therefore constitutes a necessary legal basis, which is the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u35	Mr Tomaž Gantar has the floor to prepare Mrs Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u36	Thank you very much. The eHealth project is undoubtedly an extremely important project for health care in terms of more rational work, better access to data and the like. It is of paramount importance for the country in terms of planning health services, planning health care, proper processing of analytical data and the like; and, of course, for the patient himself, in terms of easier access to his data, he is treated more effectively than for TeleKapa and similar projects. There is no doubt that this project should benefit everyone: the country, the contractors and, of course, the patients or we as potential patients. However, this project is inseparably linked to the treatment of sensitive data on the health status of the individual. And if more technical solutions such as appropriate hardware, connectivity and the like have been spoken or dealt with in the eHealth project so far; of course, it is now in another plan, which is even more important and more substantive in nature – there are questions about how to deal with data, who will have access to which data. I personally believe that the main definitions of all these issues must be laid down in the law itself. Some; we allow for the possibility of defining them also in sub-laws. But given the importance, of course, I think that the law is the first one to determine what and how and who will access this particular data. This is, of course, one aspect of the security of this data. Another aspect of security is the technical solutions of the information system itself. I think that it would also be necessary to define responsibility in the law itself to ensure this optimum security, as in some other systems, probably in banking or elsewhere; the possibility of intrusions and access to such sensitive data. The next issue, which is likely to be fairly open in substance, is the unification and compatibility of individual health data. How do we make the databases comparable? On what grounds do we not end up comparing apples to pears? Even so far, it has been very difficult to compare and coordinate these contents, and this has often led to different interpretations on the data obtained from different health institutions. A number of efforts have been made so far into the connectivity of information systems, which we know were adapted by the operators to their own needs, their own visions and to a large extent compatible with each other. I think it's more of an interoperable spine now. However, I think it would also make sense to make a commitment to the future when operators in the public health system agree on changes within the framework of applying certain rules so that not every story can play here in the way that it happened today. Another thing that seems quite important to me is the costs that have been mentioned and also mentioned in the material – they are quite high. We are talking about millions of dollars for the following years, but in the past these were European funds. Some justified criticism was based on their use and method of use. In the future, there will be a need to ensure, on the one hand, rational use and, on the other hand, that these resources do not become a permanent source or a good source of budgetary drawback for the next 10 years for those looking for solutions in the field of health information. I don't think it would be good if we discovered hot water in advance. Most of the solutions around the world already exist, and I fear that a number of solutions or services in the context of eHealth are still envisaged at a strong stage in the development of these services, which are supposed to be different from elsewhere in Slovenia. I don't think it makes much sense and it would be worth considering. About millions in the coming years – one problem I also see in the light of today's position I received under the reform programme on the level of resources to be allocated to health in providing these millions. And on the other hand, in terms of consumption, because we are already talking about $3.4 million at the annual level, which I think is at the stage when we are setting up and at the same time we are making this money for updates and development, I don't know what kind of programmes there is to think about, that it's worth thinking about again. Of course, we want this eHealth project to be successful, and in this context we will also support the substantive proposal of this law, which can still be harmonised in some details, to contribute to the implementation of this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u37	Ms Nada Brinovšek has the floor to prepare the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u38	Thank you again for your word, President. Here I would like to remind the Minister again, although he is no longer in the Chamber, of the tasks arising from Article 13 of these amendments to the law. In order to determine within one month the tasks of the Health Informatics Centre in order to determine the obligations of eHealth users, to determine the conditions, deadlines and method of integration into eHealth, to lay down the conditions for the management of the collection and the conditions which the patient’s medical and other documentation may contain a central patient registry. This is precisely what the law specifies within one month of the law being enacted. I would also like to say here that it is difficult for me to imagine the introduction of this computer business into life, even though this law and I support it. It will take a lot of time, and I also think there will be a lot of additional education for the performers. I would like to know whether in these 14.4 million, which is foreseen from the country's budget over the next 3 and 4 years, education and training are also covered by these operators. I'd rather ask, isn't that 14.4 million? I am also a little skeptical because the activities carried out at the Ministry of Health are, of course, slower to make this project really come to life with 1. This year's 12th. It is true, on the other hand, that this project does not depend solely on the Ministry; it certainly depends on the operators themselves. Since he had previously replicated in the debate colleague Vrtovac and also colleague Jelka to the statement of Mrs or colleague Guček that this change was a reform change of this law. I hope that the coalition here does not intend to reform health care or the whole country. And as a compliment to Comrade Zorman. On several occasions, on the Health Committees and even today in the National Assembly, we were able to listen to his debate, which could be said to be much better and more accurate than the Ministry's professional services or even the ministers. Too bad the secretary isn't here, I'd suggest she invite him into her line. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u39	The State Secretary at the Ministry of Health now has the floor. It's a replica. Yeah, of course it's a replica before. The replica has a mag. Margareta Guček Zakošek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u40	Thank you. Because it was flying on me for sure. I didn't say it was a reform of the health system and I was misunderstood. I said that this is the first step towards reform, which I support, because I am confident that when it comes to structural also looking at where something is going to lead to structural reform. But I didn't say it was reform. Step one, that's why I support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u41	Now Mrs Nina Pirnat, State Secretary, Ministry of Health, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! First of all, I thank you for the many constructive comments, observations and guidance you have given in today's debate. In particular, I would like to thank the Members of Mrs Maruša Škopac and Mr Brank Zorman for a very good presentation of the individual eHealth products in which I should be giving my own reasons, but they have already been given. In the beginning, I would like to say about the concept of health documentation that was set up to mean what it means. We have already said in the introduction that this law also partially transposes Directive 2011/24/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 March on the exercise of patients' rights in cross-border healthcare as regards the transfer of the definition of health documentation. This means that we also define health documentation by transposing this Directive and its contents. Our marriage, which is before you, follows this directly. There was a lot of debate on data protection, definition of security. Let me say that in Slovenia, as compared to other countries, data security is defined by the Personal Data Protection Act, where health data are particularly sensitive. Why am I explaining this? Because we are often compared to Croatia in the introduction of eHealth, where the protection of personal data is not as restrictive as it is with us; it is also not such a strong commitment and this has led to a faster introduction of personal data. However, as far as data protection in connection with this law is concerned, let me say that we have cooperated with the Information Officer, who has been directing the creation of this law at all times in the preparation of the novel. Active data protection is envisaged, followed by all access according to the most modern guidelines. As far as the collection of personal data, type, method, is concerned, as Dr Gantar's Member explicitly pointed out, is already mentioned in the law itself; and this is not a rule of law. As regards the comparability of the data to be collected, also set out in the same debate, the exact methodological instructions will be prepared by the National Institute for Public Health, which will ensure individual comparability. There was much discussion on the possibility of exchanging data, connecting individual databases, for this topic in terms of hardware and, in terms of possibility, a tool, so-called interoperable backbone, through which all these options for data exchange were provided. The discussion also raised the issue of the link to the JAZMP. Let me say that eRecept is already using the central drug base today. Furthermore, as regards the preparation of sub-legislative acts, which has also been exposed to the fact that we are obliged to prepare sub-laws within one month, let me say that we were obliged to make a proposal for a law, together with drafts, as part of the preparation of government material. The rules that should follow from this law and then apply to obligations, in the way of integration, to the conditions of governance, which was also stated in the debate, we have this in preparation and it is meant and committed to do so within one month. The question was whether the training of the operators had already been completed? Yes, the training of contractors is already covered in the financial structure you received or attached to the law. As regards overcoming administrative barriers – NIJZ, ZZZS and other operators will be covered and accessed through appropriate links. Individual key product issues have already been mentioned, as has been said. As far as waiting days are concerned. Of course, the establishment of a national waiting list will allow for better transparency where someone is waiting, the possibility of electronic ordering on an exact date, but it is not yet possible to say how much this will contribute to the reduction itself. However, this will certainly contribute to much better transparency, where waiting periods are at all. We will avoid duplication, friction, or even more – calculus, if you want, ordering to different places. This will also make it much easier for the patient to see where, who, and how long he will wait. This system will also provide us with an excellent connection or display for analysts, as casual processing of up-to-date data on waiting periods can also take place. And in this way, a national waiting list will be established. Maybe that's it for now. If there's anything essential I've let go of, I'll let you know.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u43	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? Okay. Then I'd like you to sign in when I give you a sign-in sign. If she also wishes to discuss the Government's proposal for a bill, please apply with a raise of hands. Now, if you'd like to sign up. Every debater has five minutes. First, he's discussing mag. Margareta Guček Zakošek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. As I may have been running out of time earlier, I would have continued and perhaps had some questions for government representatives. You said we could not compare with Croatia because of the different data protection. I understand that, although we have been employed in health care, for example, 3 years ago Croatia was presented as a good example of how they introduced eRecept in 2009. [[…]] And here's a possible question about eProcurement. I know a specific case where the same specialist, a concrete endocrinologist, deals with various types of disease. For example, a person is diabetic, and at the same time has potential erective dysfunction, such as hypogonadism, so he needs different treatments with the same specialist, even with the same person. What's going on today? Today, this man must come three times within eight months to one year to receive appropriate therapy for treatment. Finally, the question arises, why is there not 100 euros to further carry out an investigation that would accurately show a diagnosis? Will the eProcurement eliminate this anomaly of our health system, which is being used by hospitals to fund their own funds? The following thing: eRentgen or whatever it is already called. I know the case when a man was taken in a health care facility, he got a picture on the CD, he came to the hospital in an emergency, and there they had equipment that didn't know how to read this X-ray. Will this system eliminate such an anomaly, the link between the primary and secondary or tertiary systems? You know why I said reform? I said because we don't just want the papers to be and they won't be tolerated and the patients will be burdened with paperwork. We really want this system to work more effectively – and that is why this is the first step towards reform. I personally believe that all this time, 15 years since we decided to do this, we have spent a lot of European money to make it happen. Today we hardly have anything of any kind, and thank God that the ministry has brought this proposal to a final conclusion. Not to invest again in equipment, systems, to talk about eHealth; we will not take a step in e-digitalisation and eHealth, which the European Union is promoting, we will not do. If we don't eliminate these anomalies, then the cost of induction isn't worth it. I had not been able to get to this part of the reform before. I still think that this system should be the basis for reforming the way health care works, because 75% of money still goes into organisation and services or wages. Let's go with the ZZZ once and see where that money can be saved. Until today, we've been saving on what? At drug prices. We've put a number of pharmaceutical manufacturers on their knees that we don't even have innovative medicines today because they're too expensive. However, we do not know how to use such systems to see the ways of diagnosis. When we're looking for people where the diagnosis gets stuck, so they don't end up getting drugs that could save their lives, an example of pulmonary arterial hypertension, 100 patients. Where does it stop — in primary health care? That's what we need. We need a system that will reform, and I am stressing this once again. I think it doesn't make sense to throw money into technology if we don't think at the same time about where we're actually going to get it, so we would have this supplement here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u45	Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u46	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I believe that this law is a small step for us Members and a big step for health care. Although health care would need many more steps in the future, I remember the situation in this law. When I upgraded my phone, a week later I realized that this phone was measuring my steps. Now I find out that there are clocks that measure the heart rate, in short, a whole bunch of some health parameters that someone collects. With such parameters, when someone collects your data on how much heart rate you have in the day, how many steps you take, how many steps you move, I am surprised that we are only today, in 2015, where we try these data, similar to or comparable to that relating to human health, to link something together and extract something from them in our health system. If I say otherwise, today we might be able to write to a multinational company and ask them for an eTravel because they have more than enough information about us; we don't even wonder how they got them. There have been quite a few discussions about this today. I have no doubt that this law is being passed today. My only concern is why, in 2015 alone, why not 2003 or 2002, when technology was already available for this area. I have no doubt that I would adopt such a law. However, I hope that he will also live in the greatest and best light in practice; that he will make these paths significantly easier for us among personal doctors, specialists and the like; and at the same time make it easier for workers, all the workers involved in this healthcare system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u47	Ms Nina Pirnat, State Secretary, Ministry of Health, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u48	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to point out that most of the eHealth products we are talking about are already working at individual local levels on a local environment. By means of this law, we give the legal basis for taking them out on a national level. Why am I stressing this? Because someone may not imagine that now we will be developing some products again and starting from scratch, no. With this law, many of the local products that have already been produced will be established at the national level and given a basis. That's the first thing. Second thing. The question is, will eProcurement solve problems that are of a professional-clinical nature? No, it won't save them. The problem that you have highlighted is a matter of a clinical course and is a matter of clinical guidance. We'll work this out in a different way. Let me say that there are new guidelines for the preparation of treatment guidelines, the preparation of clinical guidelines; and this will resolve the profession – what types of interventions, how, when and how the patient is ordered. It's not a matter of health. eHealth is only a tool in this case to ensure better transparency. We also urgently need it to see these anomalies, which may indeed be anomalies. As far as the overall review of the data in radiology is concerned. In particular, reading radiological images will save the radiological portal, which will also solve the problem of the various entrances that exist so far. As far as the emergency centres are concerned, let me say that in the context of public procurement for these emergency centres that we are developing in Slovenia, we will also ensure that everyone is equipped equally with the same technology; and then there will be no more problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u49	Thank you. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Friday 24 in accordance with the meeting's timetable. 4. 2015, in the context of the votes This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. Period of the day, it's on the proposal for a law supplementing the Banking Act, the first defense. The draft law was tabled by a group of 21 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 20 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer to Mr Mag. Mark Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u50	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we again decided to submit a proposal for a law supplementing the Banking Act to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we estimate that there are several reasons for supplementing the Banking Act, namely, Slovenia is the only one of the transition countries that, for the second time, has saved the banking system at the expense of taxpayers. The last recovery of the banking system at the expense of tax money amounted to more than EUR 5 billion, but it should be noted that in 2013 we also saved two smaller private banks at the expense of taxpayers. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we assess and, at the same time, we believe that it would be fair for taxpayers to know for what purposes their money is spent. For this reason, we have also re-proposed a proposal for a law supplementing the Banking Act. The aim of this law is to obtain adequate data to enable the National Assembly to adopt effective banking legislation to prevent irregularities and inefficiency in the Slovenian banking system. The proposed law also seeks to disclose the liability of those who have participated in the granting of loans without adequate guarantees, in the event that the bank has received State aid or is subject to measures under the Act on Measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. The proposed solution will make bank data, which have so far been confidential, available for the purposes of the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and the working bodies and investigative commissions operating within the framework of the National Assembly, provided that the bank data relates to a bank that has received State aid or is subject to measures under the Act on Measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. This will give the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which takes important decisions regarding the resolution of problems in the banking system, the opportunity to obtain relevant information regarding the situation in the banking system, to identify who is responsible for the situation and, in particular, to adopt appropriate legislation that will effectively prevent future irregularities and inefficiency in the functioning of the Slovenian banking system. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware of the importance of the secrecy and confidentiality of bank data, but we are sure that, in the case where tax money is included, legislation should allow for a certain part of the data. As we have proposed to reopen the general debate on this law, we expect a constructive debate on this today in the Slovenian Democratic Party and that the first reading proposal is also supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u51	Thank you. For an introductory explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Mr Method Dragonji.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u52	Madam Vice-President, honourable motioner, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In opening, I would like to remind you that on 31 March 2015 the National Assembly adopted a new Banking Act, ZBan-2, which has already been published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. It shall enter into force on 13 May. Therefore, we must be aware that the changes you are deciding today would only apply if the draft law before us were applied before the date of entry into force of ZBan-2. The government has taken a position on the bill. The government does not support the proposal. The government considers that the existing regime is appropriate and allows detection and prosecution authorities to disclose the information they need to determine liability in the event of irregularities in banking operations. We also point out that ZBan-2, which will enter into force on 13 May, provides that the Bank of Slovenia may disclose confidential information to the National Assembly when it exercises control over the operation of the Bank of Slovenia in accordance with the statutory powers laid down by law in respect of the performance of its tasks and powers in the exercise of its control, provided that the provision of individual confidential information is necessary to exercise control over the functioning of the Bank of Slovenia. Indeed, the bill does not address exactly the same issue as ZBan-2. ZBan-2 regulates access to confidential information available to the Bank of Slovenia. However, the bill provides access to bank secrecy, which is the data available to individual banks. But that doesn't mean the National Assembly can't access the bank's classified data. Article 126 of ZBan-2 also allows access to classified information where otherwise provided for in the law. Such a law is also the Law on Parliamentary Investigation. As regards him, the Constitutional Court has already stated that investigative committees are the working bodies of Parliament, which differ from other parliamentary committees by having powers similar to those of the courts in criminal proceedings. This means, in particular, that under threat of sanctions witnesses and experts may be heard and required to submit documents. With regard to the bill, however, I stress that we are opposed to it mainly because the proposal for a law does not specify the conditions under which the National Assembly or its working body may require the transmission of information. Any intervention in banking secrecy should be subject to precise rules and conditions that should be met; and linked to the actual competences of the National Assembly. Thus, it is not enough to require that the National Assembly need some information. It should also be specified whether the purpose or purpose of the application justifies an intervention in banking secrecy. These are the basic reasons why the government has taken the position I have presented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u53	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the United Left Group will be presented by Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The stated purpose of the SDS Group is to enable the National Assembly to identify specific responsibilities for the creation of bad claims in banks that have received State aid; however, the proposal is written in such a way as to allow party manipulation of secret bank data. According to our assessment, we could achieve the same goal without that risk. As is known, the applicable Banking Act allows for access to confidential information from the prosecution, the police and the court on the basis of a decision of the investigating judge. In our view, this provision should be widely interpreted in such a way as to refer to parliamentary investigations. The Law on Parliamentary Investigation provides that a parliamentary inquiry shall be conducted in the most sensitive areas through a court which conducts specific investigations or carries out certain evidence. In our view, this is a sufficient basis for the parliamentary commission of inquiry to obtain certain data, which is protected by bank secrecy, if there is a legitimate reason. In our view, the intention of the applicant would be to propose a provision that, in addition to the prosecution, the police and the courts, the parliamentary commission may also obtain such information under the preliminary order of the investigating judge. I don't think anyone could object to such a proposal. However, the applicant did not propose this, but the following dictatorship: "The data referred to in Article 214 must be disclosed by the bank if the bank has received State aid or is subject to measures under the Act on the measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks and if the data provided for in Article 214 of this Act need to be disclosed by the National Assembly, the Labour Body of the National Assembly or the Investigation Commission of the National Assembly." The first criterion is that the bank was granted State aid. This criterion is discriminatory. For example, if an official received a bribe in an account with a private bank that was not granted State aid, this information to determine the liability of the holders of political functions is as relevant as data on who signed the credit agreement, which may not have been disputed at all. In short, the arrangements should apply to all banks or to none; provided that the acquisition of such data is essential for the work of the Commission of Inquiry. Otherwise, we place banks in which we invest public funds in an unequal position, which is unacceptable if we have previously supported the bank and is now a state-owned company. At this point in the United Left, we agree with the Government's position that the proponents misrepresent the causes of the banking crisis. In view of what they wrote in the request for the establishment of an investigative commission, we see that they are looking for reasons for the functioning of their ideological opponents, such as people who had nothing with commercial banks; they have dared to question various neoliberal mantras. It is obvious that the applicants have a very poor memory or would like to achieve through these manoeuvres that the public forgets who led the government and indirectly also state banks and state-owned companies in the years when the most bad claims have arisen. If anyone has forgotten, the most bad claims have arisen between 2004 and 2008, especially in the last two years of the first SDS government, Desus, NSI, SLS. Everyone is appalled at the Taiwanese acquisitions and credits that have been given for this purpose. The shares of the Republic of Slovenia Kad and the Court were not sold alone, but were sold by those who led the government, Kad and the Court, including those who proposed this law. But the key causes are not in the actions of these individuals, but in the structural errors of the euro area and in the wrong macroeconomic policies of the government. Allow me a longer quote by Professor Prašnik from Mladina, 20 February 2015, who said this most briefly. I quote."In the wake of the crisis, which has so far cost Slovenia about 30% of the potential GDP, we have contributed to a large extent ourselves. It was created by autonomous processes on the floating Slovenian financial market, triggering sudden events that led to changes in the existing rules of the game. Two such events are crucial. With the entry into the European Union and the euro area, national risks have been reduced, which has stimulated a large inflow of capital through the banking system. This was followed by a declaration in 2005 of the State’s rapid exit policy from the two key funds of the Court and Kad, which led to an investment mania, which was mainly carried out through corporate indebtedness. Economist Kindleberger, who has been studying the emergence of financial crises in the last 300 years, proves that such an investment mania cannot stop the moralization of swallowing, but only the prudent functioning of regulators, which has not happened in our case. The 45% increase in loans in construction at the transition from 2007 to 2008 is the best evidence for this. Thus, in 2004 to 2008, debt in the sector of non-financial corporations in Slovenia increased by as much as 13 billion. About 60% of this money was invested in the core business and 40% were invested in financial investments and real estate investments. Of these 40 % went a third, that is 1.7 billion, to purchase ownership shares in own or other companies. More than one fifth of companies whose ownership shares were sold in 2004-2008 are now bankrupt or in liquidation; almost a third are already deleted from the business register. In most of these cases, it was management buy-outs and construction." End of quote. In short, anyone who thinks that reviewing credit agreements will lead to the causes of this crisis is mistaken. The structural errors of the euro area and the EU in general and the macroeconomic policies of the then government are responsible. Everything else is throwing sand in your eyes and rejecting your own responsibility. The second criterion is that the data is required by the National Assembly and the Staff of the National Assembly or the Commission of Inquiry of the National Assembly. This, of course, is an overly broad definition. We agree that such information can be obtained by an investigative commission, of course, by adding that it should be previously approved by the court. What does it mean to get information into the National Assembly? This can only mean that all Members receive them. Imagine someone treating your personal data this way; you probably won't. In fact, legal interest must be demonstrated, the inevitability of disclosing this information; this can only be done within the framework of an investigative commission ordered by a court of law. With regard to access to work bodies, of course, the matter is clear. Who leads the Public Finance Supervisory Commission? The biggest opposition party. And something more beautiful than having a blank permission to search the bank records of political opponents. To avoid misinterpretation, banking secrecy is not an absolute sacrament for us. The absolute bank secrecy in force in Switzerland is an excuse to conceal the unfair origin of property. Bank secrecy should be treated as tax confidentiality. Authorised persons must have access to financial assets. In its opinion, the government mentioned that social work centres had an insight into the deposits of applicants for financial social assistance. This does not bother us, provided that these powers are not misused for undue control and that the censorship is not set so low that several thousand euros of savings do not result in social aid. But it bothers us that the Financial Administration doesn't have this information. The Financial Administration shall have information for each income resulting from the work. However, there is no data on how much an individual has earned with interest; this data is provided by the bank only to its client and then depends on the individual whether he will issue a forecast for the payment of the income. In this respect, banking secrecy is not warned by accident, but because information has emerged in the media that income from capital, i.e. dividends, interest and securities, should be taxed together with income from work. We support this solution because it is not fair for a pensioner who has 400 euros in pension and who earns 50 euros in dividends to pay a 25% tax; that is to say, the same as a manager who has 10,000 euros in salary and annually earns perhaps another 10,000 euros in securities. We already had this arrangement until Dr. Bayuk's late retirement ended with his reform, but at the time, the taxpayers themselves made their own income calculations, so it was up to them to be honest about whether they actually reported their incomes. In short, because of this, we will not support the draft law of the SDS Group Ambassador. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u55	Thank you. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be presented by Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u56	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! A different approach needs to be found in order to regulate the area of banking secrecy in modern times, since the old understanding of this institution has survived. This was the OECD communication at last year's session in Berlin, at the time of the signing of the Interstate Agreement on the Automatic Exchange of Information on Financial Accounts. This agreement has already been signed by our country, the Republic of Slovenia. Indeed, under banking secrecy, tax evasion is hidden in many countries, which is by no means and is never the purpose of the banking secrecy institute. According to some estimates, the European Union countries are expected to be reduced by around EUR thousand billion annually due to tax evasion. These are numbers that certainly require appropriate action in this area. The real area of banking secrecy is being intervened today in the proposed amendment to the Banking Act. 215. Article 215 of the Banking Act adequately lists situations where the obligation to protect confidential data does not apply. The Bank of Slovenia or other supervisory authorities shall have access to confidential information relating to the management of the supervisory function. However, there is no such access for the National Assembly or its working bodies, including investigative commissions, although it is essential that the National Assembly, as a legislative body, have comprehensive information on the functioning of the banking system, since it is only in this way that it can adopt appropriate legislation in the area of banking. The fact is, in the past, Banka Slovenije did not exercise its supervisory function over the banking system or performed it apparently insufficiently. With its reports, Banka Slovenije has even deceived the National Assembly that the banking system is strong and efficient. According to the data available to the National Assembly, it was not even able to act in a timely and appropriate manner in order to avoid the bank hole that we have faced in recent years. The final account for the poor and illegal management of banks and the inadequate supervisory function performed by the Bank of Slovenia has been issued to taxpayers who are least guilty of such a situation; neither they nor their elected representatives in the National Assembly have the right to know whose drink they are paying. And more. Recently, we have been informed by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance that banks, despite the possibility of transferring bad claims to the DUTB, have retained over EUR 4 billion in their balance sheets. So the story of bank recapitalisations is far from over. The only question is when are we going to burden taxpayers with new recapitalisations – or, rather, with new donations to our state banks. The National Assembly is therefore responsible for the good and appropriate legislation in the area of banking and for the use of tax money. As legislator, it must have access to all data relevant for the adoption of relevant banking legislation. As it is said, a new large bank hole is already a fact. And since we obviously do not intend to start immediately by privatising all banks in the majority state property, a new recapitalisation with tax money is clearly already at the door, or rather a new donation to banks. It is therefore of particular importance that the National Assembly, its working bodies and investigative commissions also have the possibility of accessing all data, in particular those banks that have already received recapitalisation by the State. In relation to investigations into liability for the situation, the National Assembly shall also have legal powers, which shall determine, through the Commissions of Inquiry, the political responsibility of those involved in the formation of the bank hole. The representative of the Special Prosecutor’s Office made it clear that a number of loans were granted just after the intervention of politicians. Without all the necessary bank data, investigative commissions cannot do their work with quality and well. Because of all of this, Members of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats of the Proposal for a Law on Complements of the Banking Act will also be very pleased to support us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u57	Thank you. The position of the Parliamentary Group The Alliance of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Mrs Mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u58	Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! As a kind of tradition of the current 7th Congress, we will also consider at this 7th regular session the proposed amendment to the Banking Act. Although we have discussed the Banking Act in the previous regular session, which has been in preparation for several months, coordinated with many stakeholders and implemented some important solutions that have been prepared at European level in the light of the last major global financial crisis, we have today at the table a new proposal for amendments and the amendment of the Banking Act. This time these proposals were prepared by the SDS Group of Members and are, of course, also prepared in the light of the needs of the SDS Group of Members. And let's just look at the bill that we're going to be considering today for about four and a half hours. The novel provides for the amendment of one single article and, with respect to your fellow Members, you have announced 4 and a half hours of time in the National Assembly for a single article. Again, as we have done several times in this National Assembly, we will discuss whether the bank or the savings facility that has received State aid is obliged to protect banking secrecy. I have already pointed out several times, but if the issue of banking secrecy in this House has already been addressed several times in a way to determine who in the law can and when it can be obtained, I stress that no country is aware of such specific treatment of banking secrecy, even though almost all European countries have been very supportive of their financial and banking systems in recent years. During attempts to regulate the area of banking secrecy, I should mention the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Access to Public Information. The Law on Access to Public Information, which was established in April 2014, identified as essential solutions, for example: a set of debtors, including banks that were or are receiving measures under the Bank's aid law if I reduce; the scope of information of a public nature, including information from credit maps that will or will be transferred to the so-called bad bank. The debate, which opened at the time of the opening of the novel, was mainly aimed at opening credit maps for the public remaining in state aid banks. Although the Bank of Slovenia and the Ministry of Finance pointed out that such a solution was not appropriate, the pressure of some parliamentary groups following the opening of credit maps was high. In the end, however, he took over his mind and ZDJZ-C opened only credit maps of those companies that were transferred to DUTB and only to the extent that the Bank of Slovenia assessed that it would not create competitive subordination in relation to other business entities. However, the time of the electoral campaign has reopened the debate, which was believed to have been concluded in April 2014. A bill was introduced into the legislative procedure by which banks receiving State aid committed themselves to disclosing the data which, throughout the international environment, are referred to as bank secrecy or business secrecy. At that time, the positive Slovenia Group and the Members of today's Alliance protected the position of banks, which we had previously saved with the money of all taxpayers, through discussions in Parliament. In our firm belief, such a proposed arrangement could contribute to the collapse of these same banks. The money we spent on their rehabilitation would be irreparably lost. There is no mention that we were also identified as tycoons and even worse as members of Parliament and individual Members at the time. The opinion of the section, the Bank of Slovenia, the ECB and others was overheared. The majority, however, passed a law which was repealed by the Constitutional Court in March 2015 and decided that it was unconstitutional. Today the same solution is supposed to be legalized, a counter-constitutional solution once again. Isn't this a bit of a bad world? In the Alliance, we believe that different working bodies and Members can obtain all the information we need in our work. In the case of investigative commissions, the required information can also be obtained through the courts. Because of all that I have said, and especially because the law has already been judged to be unconstitutional, we will not support this law in the Group of the Alliance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u59	Thank you. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u60	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Ambassadors and MPs, Secretary of State, nice greeting! The Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party notes that the drafter of the Banking Act, bearing the ZBan-1 code, has already submitted the same content to the National Assembly in December 2013, which was rejected. The question is immediately asked whether something has happened at this time in place, that we have an identical proposal ahead of us. First of all. We can find that activity has been activated to detect the perpetrators who caused the so-called bank hole through law enforcement authorities. Banks of Slovenia, Companies for the management of bank claims; in accordance with the coalition contract. Second, the National Assembly has recently adopted the Banking Act, which will be marked ZBan-2, which will enter into force at the beginning of the following month, is effective in May. The subject area will be sufficiently well regulated and allows the authorities to pursue a good basis for preventing and prosecuting all those who abuse their position in the bank. It's like a third. We must be aware that any access to confidential information from a bank, which is also justified, reduces confidence in the banking system, including those banks, which are mostly private owners in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a bill of motion provides that the obligation to protect confidential data provided for in Article 215 of this Law shall not apply if the bank has received State aid or is subject to measures under the Act on Measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. And this information is needed by the National Assembly, the National Assembly's working body, or the National Assembly's investigative committee. The proposed addition to Article 215 of the Banking Act, code 1, is also unacceptable for the reason that the disclosure of a criminal offence and the filing of an accusation with the competent authorities is the right and duty of each individual, i.e. Members, to lodge an appeal with the competent law enforcement authorities if they find out of circumstances which may give rise to suspicion of a criminal service. It is sufficient for the notifier to demonstrate the grounds for the suspicion of criminal services, and the competent authorities shall determine whether these reasons are justified or not, in accordance with the procedural rules and investigative powers. It is therefore not possible to establish the position that it is necessary to disclose confidential information for the work of the investigation committees of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in order to verify the circumstances concerning alleged offences of the holders of public powers. However, the Commission of Inquiry already has the legal basis for obtaining information through the court and only for the purposes of the investigation. However, in order for Members themselves to have access to all credit agreements, it is controversial. These data should be handled by relevant institutions, such as law enforcement, police, prosecution and the National Investigation Office. As already mentioned, the Banking Act-2, which enters into force at the beginning of the following month, will lay down the obligation to protect confidential data in its Article 126 of the Act. Thus, in the third point of this Article, the Banking Act-2 provides that the Bank must provide confidential information where such information is required in writing by the Commission to prevent corruption or is required in writing by the Court, the State Prosecutor or the police, unless the law expressly provides for the order of the investigating judge for the transmission of confidential data. Thus, the Banking Act-2 in Article 126(3) legitimizes the extent of access to confidential data in such a way that detection and prosecution authorities are always ensured their direct and rapid acquisition. This Article does not provide a basis for the request for data transmission provided that another law specifically requires the order of the investigating judge. It should be pointed out, however, that the Banking Act in paragraph 215 of Article 4a of the Law on Banking, which has been in force since the end of 2013, provides for a legal improvement in the prosecution of offences in the field of banking, which has been added in order to enable the detection and prosecution authority to exercise even more effectively their powers relating to the prosecution of offences committed in the field of banking. The Banking Act-1L also extended the general limitation period for criminal and compensation liability related to the performance of the functions of members of the Bank’s management or supervision body to a fourfold. However, it was incumbent upon the Bank of Slovenia, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and the Disclosure and Persecution Authorities to inform the Bank of Slovenia without delay of any suspected corrupt and criminal acts detected or reported in their work. On the basis of this explanation, we will vote in the Modern Centre Party against the Proposal for a Law supplementing Banking with the ZBan-1 Code, which we replace in the following month, as previously mentioned, with the Banking Act-2. We are also of the opinion that the adoption of this amendment would reduce confidence in the banking system. However, access to data must be made available by law enforcement authorities, the court and the Commission to prevent corruption investigating the crime and, as a consequence, to require substantive and compensation liability in state-owned banks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u61	Thank you. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mrs Suzanne Leup Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Members and honourable Members, distinguished Secretary of State! The rehabilitation of the Slovenian banking system has already cost us more than €5 billion, with this figure probably not yet complete, since we still have poor credits in Slovenian banks or again more than €4 billion. The reasons for the second resolution of the banking system are, in particular, the granting of loans on friendly lines at low interest rates with inadequate insurance. One of the reasons for the last rehabilitation of our banks certainly concerns also the lack of legislation regulating the operation of the banking system. The adoption of the relevant legislation, which will enable effective control, is the task and responsibility of the National Assembly. In order for Members and Members to adopt relevant legislation, we need to be informed in advance of relevant data and information, but most of the data and information relating to the operation of the banking system marked by bank secrecy is not available as such to Members and Members. It is understandable that banking secrecy is the basis of transactions between banks and their committees and that it is important for the trust of the commissioners, but it must also have an appropriate safeguard institution that prevents abuses. Under the current law, banking secrecy prevents competent institutions from effectively controlling the situation in the banking system and, as such, is often used as an excuse to conceal the wrong decisions of bank management. In the past, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has already requested certain information from the Bank of Slovenia on the situation in the banking system, but it has never been possible to establish the responsibilities of the Bank of Slovenia, as well as the responsibilities of members of the supervisory boards and members of the management boards of banks who signed and gave credits without adequate insurance. According to Article 152 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Bank of Slovenia is independent in its operation, but is directly responsible to the National Assembly. The commentary on the Constitution states in Article 152 in paragraph 12: "Parliament must be able to regularly analyse and control the implementation of monetary policy. The Governor of the Central Bank must always be prepared to explain to Parliament and inform him about all matters of monetary policy." One is the independence of the Bank of Slovenia in its operation and the other is the direct responsibility of the Bank of Slovenia to the National Assembly. The main reason for the adoption of this law is a change in the definition of banking secrecy, which will allow for the determination of liability for the situation in the banking system. This will help to identify who is responsible for the need to rehabilitate the banking system of EUR 5 billion, who is responsible for all errors and wrong decisions of the management of Slovenian banks and the insufficient supervision of the regulator of the Bank of Slovenia. The main objectives of the proposed law are, therefore, to obtain adequate data to enable the National Assembly to adopt effective banking legislation to prevent irregularities in the Slovenian banking system and, secondly, to disclose the responsibility of those who participated in the granting of credits without adequate guarantees, but only in cases where the Bank has received State aid or is subject to measures under the Act on Measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. The proposed solution will make bank data, which so far have been confidential, available for the purposes of the work of the National Assembly and of the working bodies and investigative commissions operating within the National Assembly, only if these bank data relate to the bank which has received State aid. This will enable the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which takes important decisions regarding the resolution of problems in the banking system, to obtain relevant data and identify who is responsible for the situation and, above all, to adopt appropriate legislation that will effectively prevent future irregularities and inefficiency in the functioning of the Slovenian banking system. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are constantly reminding ourselves of the contentious developments in the banking system and we are working to clear up possible irregularities and sanction them accordingly. We will therefore, of course, support the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u63	Thank you. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Mr Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! Allow me to brief you on the position of the Desus Group on the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Banking Act. In our parliamentary group, we will not support the draft law on the amendment of the Banking Act, because in our view the proposed disclosure would constitute a disproportionate intervention in banking secrecy. Why do we disagree with the State Assembly’s intervention in banking secrecy in the Desus Group? In Article 45 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is expressly stipulated that the labour force may, within its work area, require clarifications and data from the Government and other state authorities, public institutions, public undertakings and public funds of which the State is the founder. It follows that data can only be required from public entities, but not from private entities, which the banks certainly are. However, as regards the provision of access to confidential data by the investigating committee of the National Assembly, it is appropriate to recall the Law on Parliamentary Investigation, which provides that the parliamentary investigation of the most sensitive areas is carried out through a court carrying out specific investigations or carrying out certain evidence. Moreover, the bill was not best written. In our Group of Members, we point out that the proposal does not contain all the required elements, as set out in Article 115 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In the work relating to the presentation of the regime in at least three legal systems of EU Member States, the applicant has, in our opinion, failed, as for Spain, Cyprus and Greece it shows arrangements for burden-sharing due to the recapitalisation of banks and the handling of confidential bank data. Of course, it mentions Austria's legal regime on the handling of confidential bank data, but it only finds that the exceptions to the protection of bank secrecy are set out in Article 38(2) of the Banking Act, and not what these exceptions are, but even less, whether the regime in the Republic of Austria is similar to that proposed by itself. Even in the Desus Group, we want the story of the bank hole to be obtained as quickly as possible, the epilogue, the epilogue of the court, and that those who have done so legally, if this is proved to be true, are responsible for their actions. We are convinced that the reasons for the bank hole must be defined, that in the future this or anything like that will never and never happen again. It is also essential to define responsibility for multibillion-dollar recapitalisation or, if you wish, damage. Therefore, we insisted that all of this should be enshrined in the coalition contract. And that's what we wrote down. The definition of liability for the damage that plagues our country is ultimately crucial to restoring confidence in financial institutions, their supervisory authorities and, last but not least, in the institution of the rule of law, which we repeat over and over again. However, this task must be performed primarily by the competent authorities and institutions. In recent years, unfortunately, we have witnessed a strong, too strong belt tightening in the public financial field. The irresponsible behaviour of banks has created a spiral of debt that will not be resolved for quite some time. However, obtaining confidential information as such will not help to improve the situation. The disclosure of confidential data and individual bank committees would thus constitute, in our view, a disproportionate intervention in banking secrecy. Confidential bank data is the business secret of the bank and the committee, as it concerns sensitive data for business entities, and in particular for natural persons. Bank secrecy contributes to the Commissioner's confidence that the bank will protect the data on his assets, and this trust contributes not least or mainly to the greater stability of the banking system. Colleagues and colleagues! The last thing we want in the Desus Group is for the search for those responsible to lead to one more round of political accounting, finger-pointing to others, which the media are already full of every day. Rather, let us focus on the future, on how we will drive the boat forward, not on the spot, or even on the way back. Once again, the responsibility of those who have granted bad loans should be decided by the competent authorities, which will not be able to report dependence, bias, dependence on the next elections and the initiation of populism at the price of truth. And these competent authorities will have all the necessary information available. Because of the proposal listed in the Desus Group, we will not support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u65	Thank you. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u66	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to all on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! In the introduction, I should say that the proposal for a law supplementing the Banking Act, which was tabled in the legislative procedure by a group of Members, with the first-signed Jozet Tank, is irrelevant. It is a matter of the fact that the National Assembly adopted a new Banking Act at the end of March, and the changes we are witnessing today refer to an old law, a law that no longer applies by adopting a new law. This is why today's debate on this proposal is irrelevant. The answer to why we are discussing this law is certainly best known by the first-signed Mr Jože Tanko, who will be able to say whether it is a mistake or a conscious insistence to discuss for four hours and 30 minutes a law that is irrelevant. It would be much better if we spent 4 hours and 30 minutes at tomorrow's meeting when we discuss the establishment of a commission that is supposed to do a very difficult job relating to the operation of banks and the political responsibility of all involved in the banking hole in Slovenia. So we have four hours and 30 minutes tomorrow for this purpose at our disposal. At this point, I would just like to remind you of the experience of the Icelandic State in this area. In Iceland, the culprits were successfully detected for the collapse of the banking system. The Special Investigation Commission set up by Parliament is a case from which it is certainly worth learning in Slovenia. Instead of the political moves, the Commission of Inquiry has undertaken its investigations in an integrated and systematic manner and has formed working groups in specific areas of expertise, resulting in a communication on the basis of which the Icelandic Parliament adopted a resolution, through which it has also imposed measures that have gone towards amending the Constitution, amending the laws and the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, so that such financial manipulation and the collapse of the banking system can never happen again in Iceland's history. This is the right way, and it is right that we are not discussing the law that is irrelevant today and that we are holding this debate tomorrow within the framework of a point on the establishment of an investigative commission. In the Group of Social Democrats, we can say peacefully that if there is a vote, we will vote against this law because it is irrelevant, but I hope that in the meantime there will also be some procedural proposal in this direction so that we will not actually carry out this debate at all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u67	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. The text shall first be by the representative of the Magi's proposers. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u68	Madam President, thank you for the floor. As a candidate, I would like to go a little bit through the views expressed by individual parliamentary groups. However, I would now touch on the position of the Social Democrats, who claim that the proposal that we are considering today is a complement to ZBan-1 that it is irrelevant. Dear colleague Weber, ZBan-2 was adopted in the National Assembly. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Act shall enter into force after the Official Journal within 30 days. We have introduced this law, which we have tabled, at the time when ZBan-1 is in force, and we cannot refer to ZBan-2, which is not in force at all. So I think this is your position wrong. However, it could probably also be further interpreted by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. So much for that. I would like once again to present the reasons why the Slovenian Democratic Party has once again decided to propose this law. We believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that this law would be meaningful and fair to taxpayers in particular. I'd be honest with taxpayers for a number of reasons. We have repeatedly reiterated that Slovenian taxpayers have already been rehabilitated by the banking system for the second time. We're the only transition countries that's done this twice. And given the situation in the Slovenian banking system, we do not rule out the possibility that taxpayers will also have to recover the banking system for the third time. According to information provided by the Secretary of State some time ago, according to the percentage of bad loans that are still present in Slovenian state-owned banks. This law does not reveal some banking secrecy at all, and we do not talk about legal or private entities, but we have clearly defined that the law reveals the responsibility of those who have participated in lending without adequate guarantees in cases where the bank has received State aid or is subject to measures under the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. And this is a significant difference that some parliamentary groups in their positions are trying to interpret or present to the public. The fact is that even if this bill were to be passed, the National Assembly or the State Assembly body should still have such information as confidential, and it would not be possible to disclose certain information on an average basis. The Commission of Inquiry has also been mentioned several times, why I am investing this, because, under the Law on Parliamentary Investigation, the parliamentary commission has the possibility of accessing this data. I will tell you from my own experience, because I myself have led the parliamentary commission to disclose bank irregularities in the previous term. As a unanimous decision, we have requested certain data from banks. The banks have denied us this information. It hasn't been a surprise. We tried to get the data through the court, but the court also denied us access to this information. But more about this, I think it will be time on Friday when we consider the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party again to set up a parliamentary inquiry into the investigation of banking irregularities. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are surprised, on the one hand, and on the other hand, not that in particular the parties to the so-called left political field are trying to reject these laws in any way. Where are these reasons now for the parties to the left political field in this way to protect banks, you probably know most about yourself. It was also interesting to have a president who led the government in the period 2008-2011 to underestimate the situation in the Slovenian banking system and in some ways to take responsibility for the 5 billion-dollar rehabilitation of the banking system. I am personally sure that the then Borut Pahor's government and the then coalition would begin to resolve this banking system in their mandate, so that the effect on taxpayers would be significantly lower than EUR 5 billion, and that probably a number of other Slovenian companies would not go into bankruptcy or forced settlement. The United Left position was an interesting force. They said that the worst claims were created between 2004 and 2008. I would not expect this interpretation of the United Left because we know that our party or our President, Mr Janez Janša, was the leader of the government. After all the indicators and results so far, this was the most effective government in the history of the Republic of Slovenia and was the only government that did not give up prematurely. And if that were the case, then I really don't see why in the Slovenian Democratic Party we would suggest the disclosure of bank data. They'd probably resist me, not you. Now it's the other way around. The talk was also about the influence of Kad and Sod. The Court and the Court had no influence on the granting of bank loans. When and the Court sold their assets for their obligations and had no or no impact on the banks or even less on the granting of these loans. And as former Director of the Court, I absolutely reject this interpretation by the United Left. I have already mentioned that the court of inquiry has refused access to this information. I am convinced that the confidential document remains confidential and that even if this law was to be passed, the authorities of the National Assembly, which would have this information, should still have confidential powers. It was also mentioned about interest, I think about Furs. The United Left should be said that in Slovenia there is a law that holders of deposits that receive more than EUR 1000 interest must pay a tax in Slovenia or in the European Union. The presentation of views and the reading of confidential information by the Modern Centre Party was interesting. Dear colleague Verbič, you have stated that the Slovenian Democratic Party has already tabled this bill at the end of 2013 and that you do not see any changes in this period to date, which would require this law to be reinstated. We already regretted that the then coalition under the leadership of Alenka Bratušek decided to reject this law, but I personally believe that things have changed from the end of 2013 to today. A party came to Parliament, which today has 36 Members, the Mir Cerar Party, now called the Modern Centre Party. You are ahead of the elections and you are still discussing and talking about the fact that you are to reveal and determine the reasons for the bank hole, that you are ethical and moral, that you are advocating transparency. I think that this is a big difference since the end of 2013, and I was sure that you would follow this proposal, especially with regard to your programme and your words, which you often express in public. Above all, I also feel that it is fair for taxpayers to find out in some way what they have invested these €5 billion or any private owners we have saved at the expense of taxpayers. It should be pointed out that the two smaller private banks resolved in the summer of 2013 with a controlled liquidation instrument. With the help of the taxpayer's money, these two banks were getting rid of each other. That means we've been saving private owners. And in case the state didn't show up, these two banks would go bankrupt. Whatever the consequences, I would not dare to speak and whether this decision with controlled liquidation was appropriate or not. If you weigh in your personal opinion, it seems to me that any bankruptcy of the bank could have caused the domino reptiles, even at a time when there was a very high degree of mistrust in the Slovenian banking system. However, this intervention also saved all depositors over EUR 100,000. Because in the event of bankruptcy, natural persons would lose more than 100,000 euro in deposits and assets. For this reason alone, we believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that it would be fair for taxpayers to know who they were saving with this manoeuvre. Lately, you've been vehemently rejecting this matter. I agree that banking secrecy must be, and that is also an essential prerequisite for confidence in the banking system, and we do not interfere with a single letter in the private bank with this bill. But we're looking at banks that have been the subject of bailout money. And, Your Honor, these banks, which were free of tax money, are now in 100 percent ownership of the Republic of Slovenia. In Desus' position, we heard that we should forget this bank hole and focus further. Dear Members and Members of Desus, if this is what you say we should focus on, then I am sure that this week would not be the second regular meeting of the National Assembly, where the opposition proposes more laws than coalitions. And that's never happened, and it's never happened before. The fact of this government of Mir Cerar and the coalition of Social Democrats and Desus is that you speak one another, you do the other. Today is the first debate, you can make another suggestion to all Members and Members that this law, if you are disturbed, is still being corrected in certain segments. It's a possibility. However, I am sure that we will witness again that this proposal will be rejected in a vehement manner. And that's been going on for a while now. The banking sector is simply untouchable for left-wing political parties.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Mr Dragonja, dear colleagues and colleagues! I'm sorry about the slightly different introduction, but I may still be under the impression of yesterday's talks with General Dallair. Maybe some of the colleagues, too. This is a Canadian humanitarian worker, retired Canadian senator, including a writer, and in particular was the head of a mission in Rwanda, a mission of the United Nations during the 100-day genocide in 1993 and 1994, when about a million 100,000 people were slaughtered and some 2 million people were killed. And Sam deserves to save about 32,000 lives. We are talking about genocide and we are talking about the international community and also about the country of Slovenia, which always after every genocide, after every war says: Never again. Why such an introduction? Because I want to draw a parallel with the bank hole that was created and produced in state banks in the Republic of Slovenia. Our parliamentarians are full of mouths, when we say, it must never happen again. Of course, at this point, we must all agree. What are we gonna do about it?Oh, my God! I was a member of the previous mandate of the parliamentary investigative commission, who wanted to find out who was responsible for the bank hole or, more than once, wanted to find the names and surnames of the bank hole drillers. We failed because we did not get exactly any data on behalf of banking secrecy. More. The former Deputy Governor of Banka Slovenije, the current head of one of the branches of Nova Ljubljanska Banka abroad, told us to parliamentarians that we are not right to be stupid and that our approach is completely wrong, that this bank hole that happened is actually a natural disaster. And now, ladies and gentlemen, in a way, I am glad that banking supervision has also begun to be strengthened at the level of the European institutions. I recall in September 2012, when the European Parliament adopted a resolution on bank supervision at the plenary session, this was in fact the basis of a banking union. As you know, on 4 November last year, the supervisory mechanism within the banking union began to operate. At the time, the European Parliament was critical and Members said that the resolution on bank supervision was problematic because it provided for the role of the European Parliament only in a consultative role. Later, solutions improved precisely in this sense because it demanded that supervision of banks should have democratic credibility. I am pleased that this coalition has repeatedly said that we must restore credibility to the country of Slovenia. And this idea, which has now been opened by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, is certainly a good idea for discussion. Are these solutions, which are currently proposed, optimal, I don't know. But it is time for this second reading on the Committee on Finance that, if the true will were within the entire Parliament, especially the coalition, we could do something to improve banking supervision. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about the social state, I understand it a little bit wider, I understand it in such a way that people need to be raised in the social spirit. We're Slovenians. We're a social people. Let's take a look at the charity actions of Karitas, the Red Cross and so on. I know that the country has to come in, come in and help when it happens in the family, for example, that both parents are out of work one night at a time. This is where the state has to step in to help with its financial resources. Ladies and gentlemen, the social state is also a country with such arrangements that it does not unnecessarily take citizens. And we took the good $5 billion from the citizens. And I'm afraid we're going to take another 4 billion without asking them anything, because it's a new potential bank hole. God does not allow it to be realized, but somehow puts us into some uncertainty and this new bank hole can be realized. That is why additional supervision of the banking system is needed, and here we, colleagues and colleagues, have a very important duty. I will be proposing this law or decision to be proposed [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich, get Mr. Janko Weber ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Vice President for your word. Before I touch on the debate on today's item, I will allow myself, first of all, a few words to the comments of my distinguished colleague, who today represents the proposal of the Group of Members. First of all, let it be very clear and clear. I don't take the hard part that SMC doesn't want to get to the bottom of a bank hole. The difference between the SDS Group and SMC is mainly in the way to get there. The aim is to find responsibility and, as a result, material and criminal responsibility, and it is certainly the same on both sides. So much for the intro. I owe him a comment, because obviously I wasn't understanding enough to present my position, and I'll repeat it. When presented in the introduction by the SMC, what has been done from 2013 to today, given that an identical proposal has been made, it was my or our comment and I repeat it. I claim and claim that something has already happened at this time. First of all, activity has been activated to detect the perpetrators who caused the so-called bank hole, mainly through law enforcement agencies, the Claims Management Company, the Bank of Slovenia, all of this in line with the coalition contract. Secondly, even in this assembly, the new adoption of the Banking Act-2, which comes into force on 18 May next month, is a situation that needs to be faced and that we believe that such an area, which is the subject of today's debate, is sufficiently well-ordered and truly enabling the authorities to pursue a good basis to prevent and prosecute all potential perpetrators who have abused or even abuse the situation in banks. And what's very important, because I'm evaluating it myself, is that we all have to realize that any access to classified information that we know as bank secrecy, and I think we can agree here that they are also justified, access to this data, undermines confidence in the banking system. And here it is necessary to realize that in the Republic of Slovenia of twenty-two, twenty-three credit institutions are only four or five of them still in state ownership, and everyone else has private owners. We need to be aware that this is a serious situation. And if we're in a situation today, let's not blind ourselves to bank deposits leaving. So much for the intro. I would now like to go to my debate on a specific matter. I think we all agree that the financial sector of the country is very important for the economy. On the inside, they certainly have an important role to play. According to the new definition, as we see, there is a definition of a credit institution that we can say really has a specific role to play. If we take a closer or abstract look at the structure of the bank itself, we can find that the principle of the bank's operation is quite simple, understandable. On the one hand, we have a group or individuals who have money, on the other hand groups, individuals who need money. The fact is that among them comes this so-called institution of the bank, which must operate in accordance with the legal authority and conditions of the market. In principle, this does not present a problem if the regulator somehow regulates the legality of such an entity on the market. If I go back to the bank's institution, we simply do not understand enough that its operation is primarily based on the trust of its customers, which we normally call savers. Because the bank can operate if it has sufficient cash in addition to its core equity, which is usually owned by those who trust the bank with their savings. As a rule, they are citizens or so-called free money of legal persons. The fact is that without the said and equity, the bank’s own credit assets cannot function. Therefore, even more important is the confidence of these parties in the operation of the same bank as the banking system. However, when we talk about trust in money flows in banks, this is closely linked to the concept of bank secrecy, because without this rule the bank cannot operate on the market. Anyone who invests his savings or without so-called own funds, the bank cannot operate. Regarding savings in the form of deposits or various bonds, this same entity — a saver, a committee — does not want its information to be public or made known to the public in different ways. Nevertheless, I would mention that this is everyone's right. And that's why we have a bank secrecy institute. Today's proposal is procedural, we have already heard it from a fellow Member who mentioned that it is irrelevant. Personally, I believe that this moment is certainly not meaningless, because the Banking Act-1 is still in force and, as it is said, by 18 May. The question of the meaning of today's debate is indeed raised. However, despite the foregoing, I believe that a few words still need to be devoted to other facts, which are directly linked to this. In recent years, we have witnessed the incredible realization that in public-owned bank management and decision-making places, if I may say so, they are being abused in banking processes related to individuals and groups or could say borrowers. This kind of abuse is somehow getting closer to the notion of suspicions of crime, resulting in catastrophic undernutrition in state-owned banks and a bank hole with a dizzying amount of EUR 5 billion. The Coalition Treaty, which has already been mentioned today, also defines the chapter of past banking. In particular, it means an investigation of the bank hole and an actual definition of liability. It follows from the record that the liability of the bank hole investigation has been transferred from the Bank of Slovenia Claims Management Company and also to law enforcement authorities in the event of a suspected crime. As a result, and in a certain way, I am joining the optimism that compensation and substantive responsibility will also be established for both the presidents and the members of the administrations and also for the presidents and members of the supervisory boards. I would like to touch, I am talking about the social property of banks, including the content of the opposition party's proposal in one part. New Act on Access to Public Information, which was adopted 17. 4. In 2014, it contributed to the transparency of the bad loans transferred from Nova Ljubljanska Banka, New Credit Banks Maribor, Banka, Factor Banka and Probanka to the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. The Public Information Access Act-C constitutes the legal basis for the proactive online publication of certain data related to bad credits. In particular: value of credit, date of conclusion, borrower, name of the persons on the credit committee and final gross exposure of the non-payer on the day of transfer to the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. On its website, the same DUTB published information on non-payments on the day of transfer to DUTB by all state-owned banks whose claims have been transferred under Article 10a of the Law on Access to Public Information on the basis of Article 10a of the Public Information Act. They are also being carried out on suspicion of crimes by the police and along with the State Prosecutor's Office of the investigation. To this end, an agreement on cooperation between the police and the Bank of Slovenia was concluded to detect, prevent and investigate crimes. I am confident that the law enforcement authorities, together with the judicial authorities, will do their utmost to demonstrate and implement the rule of law. Here perhaps a little SMC differs in the approach, the attitude towards the party proposing. Here are some personal opinions on the proposal tabled below. I'm putting here a thesis that I've already exposed, but I'm going to do it again because of the weight of the matter. The so-called bank hole for which the main culprits and the most responsible are the authorities and individuals employed in the bank that are in state ownership who have performed the management and decision-making function. We know them as presidents and members of administrations and supervisory councils, and I would add level or sector-specific institutions, as provided for by the act on internal organisation and the systemisation of the bank. I think they're the primary culprits. The secondary culprit for the situation is the central banking regulator, the Bank of Slovenia. That's what I'm basing it on. Each natural and legal person shall have the full legitimate right to file an application in relation to the bank and apply for the amount of credit that is or may be unusually high. It shall be up to the bank or its staff to decide whether or not to accept or refuse. We must be aware that the financial institution, in this case the bank, always appears in a bond relationship as a physically or commercially stronger party in the process, because no one can force it to do so unless it so decides. However, such decisions must in fact be based on specific professional and procedural procedures or assumptions. It is generally known, as well as in the adopted Banking Act, that management and decision-making bodies are subject to a specific principle. Usually there was talk about the principle of a good master. As a rule, this principle applies in ordinary companies. For banks, the principle of a good expert is stricter, which means a higher level of operational responsibility and expertise. All of this leads us to realize that in order to identify all irregularities, it is not necessary for each case to have the so-called disputed loans of the entire individual credit card, but primarily the internal rules of the bank, which define in detail the processes of granting and concluding individual credit relations. According to these acts, it is necessary to examine who misused or exceeded the bank’s fundamental powers. Of course, the internal so-called credit rating of the borrowers of each business, value and subject should also be taken into account. All of this has obviously been consciously overlooked and, at the final stage, has been decided in contravention of the above-mentioned principle of good expert, which must apply to bankers. Therefore, I believe that we must be very considerate of the borrowers, the bank's committees in our views, rather than publish their data, because, as it is said, everyone has the right to apply for an unlimited amount of credit, and the possible realization as a positive decision is in the sole competence of the bank. Can we ask who led the banks to approve or extend so - called bad loans? The answer to this question is simple. If the bank's management were to comply with the Banking Act and internal rules, that would not be the case at all. This situation is certainly also the responsibility of the owner of the bank, and this is the country where we talk in cases of banks that are owned by the State, because the state appoints administrations and supervisory councils which must act with due care and law under law. It also raises the question whether the managers of management and decision-making in banks have done so knowingly. The answer is that it was an undisputed violation of the provisions of the Banking Act. In other countries, we know this as some kind of deliberate, pretentious blindness. He says that if someone knew about or should have known about a fact subjectively, at the same time with thoughtless conduct or with some thoughtless indifference he avoided taking account of a fact, in our case of law, he committed a premeditated crime. We can conclude from this that it was a deliberate and presumptive violation of the law, as the subject-matter of the decision-making of the bank's administration or of its authorised persons knew or knew individually that it was in violation of the banking law and that it was doing so thoughtfully. It is precisely on the basis of this that I personally am very reserved to disclose data from bond relations concluded in relation to the bank, and I believe that banking secrecy has a certain weight, especially when we touch this repeatedly expressed word "trust". I am confident that, in accordance with the Coalition Treaty, the Banks Management Company and the Group appointed by the Government will carry out all the necessary activities and the rule of law will be implemented to identify all the perpetrators who have been in the role of decision-makers in individual loans that have caused this huge bank hole. With regard to the current activities of the Bank of Slovenia Claims Management Company and law enforcement authorities, decisive and reasonable action is expected against all who are suspected of having committed a crime, which we also know as an abuse of responsibility. Here I would mention that we also need to follow the example of the neighbouring state of Austria, which has solved and practically resolved the Hypo case. Remember how much dust was also in the Slovenian space when the law enforcement authorities from the neighbouring country carried out activities in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Since the Banking Act applies to all credit institutions in the Republic of Slovenia – I mentioned number 23 earlier, it does not make sense for banks owned by the State that we have 4 and 5 whose equity shares have to be withdrawn in 2016, 2017 and 2019, it is therefore not appropriate to include the proposed amendments by the proposer in the law in question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Let's get Mr. Tillen Christmas ready. Excuse me! Mr Mag has the floor to propose. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u74	President, thank you for your word. On the basis of this 15-minute debate by a fellow Member of the SMC Group of Members, I will reiterate that we do not eliminate bank secrecy, confidential data in its entirety, because somehow it was understood. The banking system is certainly based on trust. And I will repeat: in a certain segment, we eliminate banking secrecy for the needs of the authorities of the National Assembly if the bank has received State aid or is subject to measures under the Act on Measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. If the bank is not in state ownership of 100 % and is not subject to these measures, this shall not apply to it. It was interesting to hear this discussion of how you would solve or try to get to the bottom of this five billion-euro bank hole. But I haven't heard from you or the President of the Government how you're going to get there. It's easy to say a sentence for that, and we'll stand up for that, and I'm interested in the content and the way. Regardless of everything you have mentioned, I should now take over the role of this body, which will deal with it, if I understand you correctly, Banka Slovenije. Dear colleague Verbič, given that you also have some work experience in important functions in two foreign-owned banks, you are probably familiar with these matters. You will doubtless find it difficult to convince me that responsibility lies solely with the management of banks. Then why do we have regulators? I think the Bank of Slovenia should also play an important role here. And now this same organ is going to go back to looking at the matter. I think this road is wrong. But the same thing is my opinion that a 5-billion-dollar hole is probably not just a criminal act. And we never said that in the Slovenian Democratic Party. But I personally believe that a large part of Banka Slovenije is responsible, and I have not heard this from you. You mentioned a violation of banking law. And if we have a bank regulator, we should find out who's in violation of banking law? It's a regulator. And this is the Bank of Slovenia. It is certainly incomprehensible to me that we allowed transitions from the management functions of banks to regulators and vice versa. The President of the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank then went to the vice-governor. Is that normal? I don't think so. So you can control yourself. I think there are a lot of things that should be done here in Slovenia if the interest was to establish an effective and responsible banking system. And I would say the opposite, crossings from the Bank of Slovenia down. But that's not that much of a problem to me. However, it is a controversial transition for me to become Vice-Governor of the Bank of Slovenia as President of the Supervisory Board, and then you are in charge of this supervision. The regulator Banka Slovenije must also be responsible for the situation. You highlighted the case of Hypo in Austria. Read your articles back a little. There are already certain judicial epilogues completed. I think there is no.And it is sad to mention the then intervention of the Austrian security authorities, if you can say so, on the daughter of Slovenia, that the Bank of Slovenia did not come to this realization, but that they had to initiate this initiative themselves. I am sure that in Slovenia a lack of control over the banking system has been made in the past.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u75	Thank you very much. He asked the mag for a replica. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. Don't make it look like you're somehow contradicting your friend anyway. Now I'm going to be very brief. The fact is that the SMC Group is a very short time in this House and any link or link with us has neither tail nor head. The fact is that we are in position and agree with the respect that the banking regulator has not done its job. In particular, that period, which has already been stated several times on the parental committee, is the period 2008-2013. Banka Slovenija has already filed over 100 criminal complaints, which means that there are movements and a direct agreement between [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Get Mr. Marijan Pojbič ready. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. Perhaps firstly, an explanation of why I stand very firmly in the position that today's debate is irrelevant. Even if this law is adopted by the National Assembly, it will also cease to apply as soon as this law is enforced. That's a fact. That is why I am saying that the treatment of today's law is irrelevant. Especially because on Friday we have the establishment of an investigative commission on the agenda, which will work in this direction in order to examine the need to amend legislation and other decisions of the National Assembly under its competence to determine the actual situation in banks and also political responsibility. At that time, we have another 4 hours and 30 minutes. However, this debate will have very great weight, very important importance, and Parliament's decision to set up this commission will be very important. As to today's fact, it is possible to have a general debate, but in fact you will have a problem with those who will support this law. We don't all have these problems. But the proponents and New Slovenia will have problems because you will support the law with the knowledge that this law will not apply even if you adopt it. It's just procedurally complicated. This processivity was resolved before this law was included in the meeting of the National Assembly. That could be solved. Therefore, I say that this is also why it is unnecessary today on the agenda. As to the conclusion of the Magi. Mark Pogačnik that we want to reject their proposals in any way. This is exactly why I reiterate that it is not a matter of rejecting your proposal, but that this law, if adopted by the National Assembly, will also cease to apply. And that's a fact we can't get past. So I cannot agree with your finding that we wish to reject your proposal. Your conclusion is correct, Mr Mag. Marko Pogačnik, that Mr Borut Pahor, President of the Government since 2011, publicly acknowledges that he has not correctly assessed the importance of the rehabilitation of banks in Slovenia. That's a fact. He said it publicly, admitted it, and he certainly would say, if someone confessed something, some kind of mitigating circumstance. But only a mitigating circumstance. I need to remind you of what happened in public at the time. At that time, however, a proposal was also made to recapitalise banks amounting to 150 million euros, at some point also 300 million euros, and – do you remember what the public pressure was then on the government, if you know how much taxpayers' money we would deposit in these state banks? We're going to throw 300 million euros away, they said if we recapitalise them then in this amount. Today we are talking about the 5 billion that have been invested in the Slovenian banking system. And more. But five billion was practically that first step. Does anyone have a serious problem with this decision? When the recapitalisation was carried out, I'll say, somehow by making it easier to accept it. Look, we've saved the banking system, we've invested $5 billion in it. However, when we proposed a recapitalisation of €300 million or €150 million in 2011 and those years, it was such a drive towards the then government, as if we were going to lose the country, as if we were going to spend all the money that people in Slovenia have, as if it were going to cease to function in fact all the activity in Slovenia and that we would literally fail. Such a dimension of pressure was then upon this government. I just want to show this fact somehow, which has also led to such proposals that have been falling during that period. And we can also read in the media that it is better to sell Slovenian banks for one euro than to recapitalise them. These were then proposals that we could read, proposals that were also made by eminent people, that one euro is the amount for which we should sell Slovenian banks. Such a relationship was in that period to state property, to Slovenian banks. Recognizing that Slovenians are one of the most cost-effective nations in the European Union, I estimate that bank deposits by Slovenian savers are close to 8 billion. See, at the time the proposal fell, despite the fact that Slovenians and Slovenians kept their money in banks of 8 billion, let us sell Slovenian banks for 1 euro. When you start comparing such data and when you face it, of course, you wonder what all this was about, that the then government was assessing that it was not actually hoping to recapitalize the bank. The fact is, however, that there is still a very large amount of Slovenian savings in Slovenian banks right now. And the fact is that even today, despite the money we have in Slovenia's banks, we have also committed ourselves abroad and invested in these banks of an additional 5 billion, we are still talking about how it is imperative to sell out Slovenian banks as soon as possible. And there'll be no mistake, because many times you think about banks once in a private life, then there's no problem in the banking system. The global economic and financial crisis was caused by the collapse of private banks, not by the collapse of state banks. The fact that Slovenia has been in the crisis since the financial crisis since 2008 is not a consequence of having a majority stake in the state bank, but is a consequence of the collapse of the world's private banks. Private capital has caused a global crisis, so we need to be very careful when we talk about how we will rehabilitate banks, how we will adopt the capital investment management strategy in the Republic of Slovenia, which is now in the final phase and is expected to be adopted by the government today. Do you also imagine the situation in which the National Assembly was when it met with the decision to sell 15 Slovenian companies without any analysis, without any grounds. And Parliament has just decided because the European Commission is supposed to charge us with this because the troika will come and because Slovenia is in such a situation that if we don't sell it all out, we will fail. These are some facts that we have to worry about. I am strongly inclined to follow the path Iceland has taken. In Iceland, a special investigative commission was set up and then reported to Parliament. I also imagine that the Commission of Inquiry, which I hope will be set up on Friday, will also report to Parliament. Parliament then decided in a resolution on the basis of this report that it would even change Iceland's Constitution, because the Constitution also allowed speculation and abuse of the banking system. They also decided to amend Parliament's Rules of Procedure. This one, too, was written in such a way that it allowed these speculations to happen. They decided to change the law on ministries and government offices. They found that ministries can also operate by allowing these speculations and the collapse of banks. They also decided to amend the financial market legislation. They decided to amend legislation in the field of compulsory pension insurance. That's where they found the abuse. They decided to amend legislation on the supervision of financial activities by the central bank. Yeah. In my opinion, our main financial regulator, Banka Slovenije, also did not play her role when the financial crisis took place. And even before the financial crisis occurred, the Bank of Slovenia allowed unlimited debt to the economies and Slovenian banks abroad. This is where the bank regulator didn't do his job. In addition, in Iceland, the central bank proposed to amend legislation on accounting, accounting and audit in a special government agency and so on. I am sure that people in Slovenia will also understand very well if we change the legislation governing tax procedures in the Republic of Slovenia in the way that SDK, the Social Accounting Service, once acted, I am sure that many of the problems that we are facing here today and which we are discussing will never again be possible to the extent that they occurred when the SDK system was abolished. The Social Accounting Service had a parallel review of how an economic company operates, whether all contributions to employees are paid. If not all contributions were paid, no other cases could be settled. First, all contributions had to be paid to people who were employed, only then could you resolve other obligations. And we have to go this way to Slovenia. If we are already discussing this today, I would nevertheless like to use the time available to me on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats to draw attention to these facts, which are not real, and I hope that we will be able in this House to follow the guidelines they set in Iceland and have successfully reached the end. They found those responsible for the situation and punished them. They passed legislation and created a new banking system, and today Iceland operates on completely different bases than Slovenia. It is true, however, that Iceland is not within the European Union and that I do not think at all that it is thinking about entering the framework of the European Union. What we should have done long ago in Slovenia is that this national reform programme, which is now being adopted by the government and the stability programme, is being adopted by the national assembly, not by the government. This is a document on which they will tell us back from the European Union, if you have promised to sell this, you have promised to reduce people's salaries, you have promised to become a country of cheap labour. This is what is not within the power of the government, it is within the power of Parliament. I would really like to hear two-thirds of this House passing a law on government cooperation, a national assembly on European Union matters, in order to take two-thirds of the decisions to make Slovenia a country of marginality and cheap labour. I am convinced that the Slovenian Parliament would never adopt such a national reform programme and a stability programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The drafter of mags has the floor. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your floor. I am pleased that colleague Weber has come to the realization that the formal law today is not a mere adoption of this law. But I can agree with him in one part, with those words that he said the ZBan law would enter into force somewhere in mid-May. However, if there was will and interest on your part, then the procedural procedure is such that a meeting of the Committee on Finance is convened quickly and ZBan-2 is complemented by this article, which would be adopted today in ZBan-1. This means that if there was a will or if there was an interest, this procedure could also be feasible. As this is a mitigating circumstance for the then Prime Minister Borut Pahor, who stated that they underestimated the banking system. It is possible, on the one hand, to say positive, that he admitted his mistake because this mistake or extenuating circumstance cost taxpayers dearly. We certainly need to be aware of that. However, I was struck by the fact that, at the last recapitalisation of banks at the expense of taxpayers of more than EUR 5 billion, no one at that time warned of this. Dear colleague Weber, you were then President of the National Assembly, and I think that you and Mr Jozet Tanke, the leader of the SDS Group, have sat with you many times, as he was also the caller of some extraordinary or urgent meetings of the National Assembly or the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy on this issue. However, I cannot help but overlook the fact that you were Social Democrats in the government at the time, and you have fully supported this rehabilitation and the way in which the banking system is being rehabilitated. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we then addressed a number of questions to both the Ministry of Finance and the President of the Government at the committee meeting, whether the rehabilitation carried out in this way is appropriate. We were already convinced that it would be significantly cheaper and more favourable for Slovenian taxpayers and for the Slovenian budget if the then government, in which you were also Social Democrats, had served the rescue of banks in the way Spain served, that is, through the ESM mechanism. Much cheaper money! However, your argument at the time was, no, the ESM money will not be used, because at that time they will require the conditions under which we need to remedy the banking system. Now we have come to realize that with Slovenian taxpayers' money we have saved the banking system and that the European Commission or a Brussels authority is setting us no conditions: that the New Maribor Credit Bank should be sold by 2016, that it was necessary to "obtain" the holders of subordinated bonds. I think your government made a bad deal at the time. And it was a bad deal in Brussels or with the authorities you were negotiating with. You have to take your responsibility for this. The Slovenian Democratic Party pointed out this, both as regards the way in which the resolution system and the resolution system were to be integrated into the ESM system. You were social democrats in this government at the time. I know that you will now say that you were the only one against the Social Democrats in the vote on the package of 15 companies. I do not know how your previous colleague Križanič has stated many times that the SD Presidency was against, but you were forced to do so. These are your problems, and I don't think anyone will believe that. But with regard to the commission of inquiry, I would like to draw your attention to another matter. In view of the early elections, the Commission of Inquiry concluded its mandate prematurely. The Commission of Inquiry then proposed to you, as President of the National Assembly, that its interim report be considered as early as June. And you, as president of the National Assembly, have rejected this for some unknown reason and transferred it to some time of summer. In this interim report prepared by the Commission of Inquiry, one of the proposals is also to consider that the Commission or the Icelandic State's model body should be used to identify the causes of the banking crisis and in particular its responsibilities. And I don't know why you turned this down at the time — whether you were afraid to consider this report before the elections — as President of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u82	Thank you. Mr. Mag. Marko Pogačnik, look, you are talking about the period when I was the President of the National Assembly, you are talking about the period when Prime Minister Borut Pahor was Prime Minister, and you are talking very little about the period when Mr Janez Janša led the government, 2004-2008, when the Slovenian Democratic Party was the strongest party in this government. You talk very little about this period. However, the consequences of the then rule had to do with the fact that the government, led by Borut Pahor, was in trouble in 2011, and that the country was not prepared for the economic and financial crisis at the time. The consequences of the 2004-2008 regime are still felt by the fact that we had to recapitalise banks in five billion euros. That's a fact. It is right that we discuss these problems honestly. In the 2004-2008 mandate, not only did unbridled debt in foreign economies and banks, indeed, unbridledly, then a mitigating circumstance for that government can indeed be that the Bank of Slovenia did not correctly and firmly warn the government that what it was doing was wrong and that it was working for the country. The damage was caused by the fact that banks and economies abroad had not actually stopped indebtedness before the economic crisis, and the damage was caused by the fact that, while you were allowing debt abroad, you also allowed a reduction in the tax burden on capital. You unloaded the capital by amending the legislation and thereby reduced the flow of money to the state treasury. After the 2004-2008 mandate, we were in a situation where the economy and the banks were in a bad debt, but at the same time the state budget did not have the flow of resources that it would urgently need to solve Slovenia's situation due to the global economic and financial crisis. This is the situation that the then government had to decide which measures to take first. The government of Borut Pahor and the government, which was run by Social Democracy to the greatest extent since we were the strongest party, decided on the following. As a result of the economic and financial crisis, we have given priority first to jobs and companies. We also paid contributions to people waiting at home for companies to regain their jobs in foreign markets. We've given priority to people and the economy. The next phase should be banks. But in fact, this mandate was also suspended prematurely, because you also failed a good measure of the pension system, you also blacked out the work measure, and this all contributed to the fact that the country then had to decide on such a difficult recapitalisation as we are talking about today and we will also, I hope, successfully investigate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The drafter of mags has the floor. It's a cakemaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u84	President, thank you for your word. Dear colleague Weber, now you've taken me out. I used to try to explain certain things that you were saying. That is why I did not expose the Janša government in the period 2004-2008. But now you've exposed her, and I'm gonna have to do that. In 2008, and the government of Janez Janša was one of the most stable governments, which has now concluded its mandate in history. During the period of this government in 2007, the Slovenian budget was the only surplus in history. During this period of government, we had the lowest unemployment, we had continued economic growth, and we were also somehow above average in many EU indicators. With the arrival of the next government so far, from 2008 to 2015, only cumulative GDP fell by more than 9%. This cumulative decline is highest among the countries of the European Union. However, I regret that, as President of the National Assembly, you have not decided to consider the interim report of the Commission of Inquiry, in which there are many disclosures, and also for this period 2004-2008, there are certain findings. I think that this mid-term report will be an opportunity, because as a proposaler, one part of it will also be proposed on Friday when it comes to this topic. On the other hand, I think a lot of people know, and also the EU, that the mandate of the government of Janez Janša was one of the best, because they speak of the same numbers. In particular, I would like to point out that the Government of Janez Janša did not have any impact on the indebtedness of individual economic operators or natural persons during the period 2004-2008. And here no government, not the government of Janez Janš, nor the current government, nor the government of Borut Pahor, has any influence or tool to stop it. And don't sell those stories, come on! However, since the resolution of the banking system was evident between 2009 and 2011, it was only that the administrations of some of Slovenia's largest banks were the supervisory council and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had to recapitalise the banks with a higher amount than they had actually been.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u85	Here you go, Mr. Janko Weber, but the timing will be awkward. All right, all right. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. This debate, which I have just heard, is really interesting, but I think it is less important under the circumstances and the current situation. Mr Weber, there have been many such interesting observations at the expense of the work of the government of Janez Janša, who has had a single mandate from 1990 to this day, and it appears that the only government of Janez Janša is the government that has ruled and worked in this country. If the government of Janez Janša is to blame in this country, then I estimate that other governments in this country did not exist or were themselves intended. Mr Weber, I think you should know very well, and you know that Janez Janša's government was not the one who was lending loans. The government of Janez Janša and no other government has these powers, has these opportunities, and has no influence on who has received credit, when it has received it, and why it has received it. And if you knew that, Mr Weber, and you would be as correct as you would be if you were once president of the National Assembly, you would expect not to mislead the Slovenian public, that you would operate with arguments and that is how you would debate. But what you're saying today, these are cubicle manipulations. You were talking about selling banks for one euro and so on. And you know what, Mr Weber, if the Slovenian banks were privately owned, believe me, they would not have been cured by Slovenian taxpayers, but the owners should have saved them, otherwise they would have to go into liquidation. Definitely. I'm sure it is. It's easy to have things owned by the state, when you screw it up, and then you turn to a poor nation, and you say, "My dear nation, who lives with 400, 500 or I don't know how many euros," but now that you've got a lot of money, you're gonna pay for all the shit we've done. And no one, in God's name, gets hurt. And such a way and such a relationship and such a relationship I, as a Member of the National Assembly and the Slovenian Democratic Party, will never and will never defend, because this is unacceptable, distasteful and extremely irresponsible and rude to my own people, my esteemed colleague and my colleagues. I will now return to the law, and once again I will make very clear the main reason, the objectives, principles and main solutions to the draft law that we have proposed for this debate in the National Assembly. The main reason for the adoption of this law is a change in the definition of bank secrecy, which will allow for the determination of liability for the situation in the banking system, which will determine who is responsible for paying more than EUR 5 billion by taxpayers, with this figure likely not yet complete, for all errors and wrong decisions by the management of Slovenian business banks and for the insufficient supervision of the Bank of Slovenia. Aims and principles. The proposed law aims to obtain adequate data to enable the National Assembly to adopt effective banking legislation to prevent irregularities and inefficiency in the Slovenian banking system. The proposed law also seeks to disclose the liability of those who have participated in lending without adequate guarantees in cases where the bank has accepted State aid or is subject to measures under the law on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. Main solutions. The proposed solution will make bank data, which have so far been confidential, available for the purposes of the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and of the working bodies and investigative commissions operating within the National Assembly, provided that the bank data relates to a bank that has accepted State aid or is subject to measures under the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. This will enable the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which also makes important decisions regarding the resolution of banking problems, to obtain relevant information regarding the situation in the banking system, to identify who is responsible for the situation and, in particular, to adopt appropriate legislation that will effectively prevent future irregularities and inefficiency in the functioning of the Slovenian banking system. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I hope you've listened to me very carefully. Those of you who have listened to me carefully, I am sure that you do not have the slightest chance of contradicting what I have read. All of you, all of you Members of Parliament, always say that those who are guilty, thieves, bankers who have harmed this Slovenian society must be brought to law in order to be covered by the time of justice. You all think the same, you all talk about it, but when it comes to a concrete proposal that you can get close to this goal, and then all of a sudden, your enthusiasm disappears, it's gone. When it came to voting on this law, I listened today to the leaders of the parliamentary groups who said their own words that they were opposed to this law. And look, as long as we live in a mold, I'm sorry to put it that way, but I don't want to insult anyone, and we're not going to look over the edge and find that what's in the law now, and even what's secret, it's not said that to that extent, it has to be kept secret. It's not said. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has all the options, this is the highest legislative branch of government that can change legislation. I wish we could start thinking this way in this country. Not that we're saying ahead of time that there's nothing that can't be done, because apparently some people find this super cool. In order to continue to steal that no one has been brought before the hand of justice, that the property that is abroad, I do not know where everywhere, remains in these thieves' hands, that even from prison they write notary records that their property cannot be taken away. Look at the system we live in. Is that normal for you, colleagues and colleagues? It's not for me. And I'm not talking about any politics. I'm talking purely about the facts. Once we're here two-thirds or, I don't know, find and say, look, we have enough of this, we know it's wrong, and we don't protect individual lobbying because that's the problem. In this country this network, the banking network is very problematic. And if you know this network, you know people, there are, say, 100 or 50 people who go from one position to another – today is in the Bank, tomorrow is in the Ljubljana Bank, tomorrow is in the Goren Bank, etc. And all these people have terrible connections, they have networks, I mean spiders, so spread out that second and third-class management then decides everything. All about everything that's going on. And when people look at us, they say, "Look, you're there, because that's why we sent you there to solve the problem that's in our interest, otherwise we don't need you." And what else do these people say? "Look, because you didn't do anything to get these people back this property or take it away, you're all the same, you're all the same bastards. Excuse the expression, that's what people say. And I, the Member of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Marjan Pojbič, have enough of this. I've had enough of this because I'm not guilty and I don't want to be blamed for what I don't have any influence on. And we want to create the conditions with this law, but we want to have an impact on certain things. But the impact in such a way that we can change legislation qualitatively. This can only be done if we also have adequate quality data. And then I will say, if we have all the relevant quality data here on the table, and we will not react, "Dear people, now I am the one and take me out, and throw me into the Mura because I have done nothing for you." I can't say these things in my life any more. I think that everyone sitting in this House is aware of this and that our common desire is very likely to be similar to the debate I am talking about here. I think we're very united here. Let's just make that jump and go over the fact that nothing can be done and nothing can be done. You can do anything. The law of this banking secrecy was also adopted by the National Assembly. Just as he accepted it, in time it turned out that it is no longer appropriate to provide a sufficiently good public service for citizens and citizens and that there is considerable potential for abuse and so on. Otherwise, there would be no problems in our banking system. You know, for such big scams that have happened here, and we all know who is to blame, and at the end of the day, look how long we've been talking about this, and I haven't seen one particular thing that would have come out to the public to say, look, but now we've got this bastard, who was a procurator and president there in Zagreb, and I don't know what. 10 million, 20, 30, 50 million went out of the bank, and the parent bank was the boss. And the vice of the world, where do we live?Oh, my God! We have to call this an end. To go back. In its opinion, the government wrote the following. At least I expected the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to say this time, see, you have prepared a proposal, we will examine it, we will sit together, we will do something that will be digestive, acceptable and that will move forward towards the goals that we are, I think, all of us are sworn to them, saying that we are looking for solutions that will be better, quality and more useful for our citizens and citizens. I think we're all committed to this, all of us sitting here in this national council. And the Government wrote: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Banking Act, EPA,0349-VII, tabled by a group of Members and Members, with the first-signed Jozet Tank, to supplement Article 215(2) of ZBan-1, which regulates the obligation to protect confidential bank data. Disclosure of confidential data on individual committee members of banks to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, its working bodies and investigative commissions of the National Assembly would constitute a disproportionate intervention in banking secrecy." The following sentence is added: " Confidential bank data is the business secret of the bank and the committee, because sensitive information is both for business entities and in particular for natural persons, because it is also sensitive personal data." I agree with this, which is written here, I have no problems, but the government, when I read the matter forward, did not tell me in any way where we might be able to take any steps. Where could we possibly take a step towards a more transparent, fair and responsible work and that we will also have Banka Slovenije on the other hand, which is still somehow responsible for this bank hole? How responsible! And look, nobody gets hurt. The former governor, I have not even heard that anyone in any context would react against him or against all those who were super-paid, super-paid at the expense of a poor nation. It is a shame that such people with such high incomes eventually allow them to rob the Slovenian banking system. And in the end, nothing happens to them. Nothing. And the same government wrote at the end of this opinion: "The Government of Mir Cerar in the coalition agreement on the investigation of the bank hole and the definition of liability stated that in order to ensure a return of confidence in the financial institutions, supervisory institutions and the legal institution, the responsibility for the bank hole must be defined and the compensation and liability of the members of the administrations and supervisory boards of the recapitalised banks required. The responsibility for carrying out the investigation of the bank hole shall be transferred from the Bank of Slovenia Claims Management Company to the Bank of Slovenia and, in the case of suspected criminal offences, to the competent law enforcement authorities." And, look, we're back! Someone who was responsible for creating a bank hole is now the one who should have found those who are responsible for this story. But he was alone. All these people, the whole system, should be replaced immediately! Set up completely new people who don't have spiders on their fingers. On the other hand, what we are proposing – a change of legislation could take a step further. Now, look, you're letting the sheep watch over the wolf. How long do you think it's gonna be? There's no way! Someone who has blamed and is guilty of a condition is the one who will now judge who needs to be handed over to prosecution and so on. It's not working, it's just not working! And the same people stayed in key positions. Or at the Bank or the Ljubljana Bank and so on. They just exchanged positions, but they're all there. And then those who investigated these acts on the anti-corruption commission are sitting on the bank today. This cannot happen in any country in the world – except Slovenia. I really don't. He can't. I don't think that can happen in North Korea. And when we see that everything is completely corrupt, this whole upper system, the layer, is connected, then it's logical that there are no changes and solutions. And it won't come that long. Mr Weber, you spoke today about Iceland, what measures have been taken in Iceland to remedy the banking problems they have had. They're the ones who fixed this thing. They caught those thieves, locked them up, took their property, and so on. But, Mr Weber, I would expect from you because you are a member of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, that you do not just say this in the National Assembly to do this in your government and act immediately. Now! Tomorrow! Mr. Weber, I'm sorry, that's no excuse. I'm sorry, I didn't mean to let myself down to a personal level, because you know, I don't mean to offend you because that's not my intention. But the things you've been saying, you have to practice in your own hands. Then you were talking to the wrong people here today. You must first address the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. If you think this approach is okay, then propose to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And do it now. We need to get ready right away. Look, this has to be one week in the National Assembly! We don't need any waiting, because it's too alarming. And I expect, Mr Weber, from your party, that you will carry out certain procedures and what is necessary for us to get the proper basis, legislation and so on at the table as soon as possible, so that we can resolve this situation in our country. However, what I have been monitoring lately is the work of this government, which deals mainly with its human resources problems, it is very difficult to expect any major shifts, any important legislation that might take place on our bench. I also see today at this meeting of the National Assembly that six laws have been tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party. One I think is New Slovenia, and one is the United Left. And practically the worker is full. Almost zero from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Here something will have to be changed if we want good for the Slovenian people. I will be very happy to support this law, which we have prepared in the Slovenian Democratic Party, because I am convinced that our intention is the right, the right direction, we must draw the line once with what was and organise ourselves so that we can also take a step through what we are always talking about, that something is impeding us. We have to get over that obstacle once. And we will have to do this sooner or later if we wish this Slovenian nation and our citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Ange Logar. Here you go, Mrs. Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Although I am not covering this area in the National Assembly, I am not a member of the Finance Committee, nor of the economy. But today we're talking about a subject that concerns each and every one of us. For this reason, I also expected the Minister of Finance to be with us today and to be clearly defined by the law that we have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Today we are not talking about anything other than transparency of procedures. And that citizens and citizens have the right to know where their funds go. Finally, the banking system has been rehabilitated twice since its independence. Today in the Slovenian Democratic Party, this law only advocates the fact that if it is the Parliament that decides on the recapitalisations and then confirms them, it is said that banks are recapitalised, then citizens and citizens have the right to know where their funds go and how they are spent. I think it's high time we stopped here by hiding the data. The Bank of Slovenia, I have already warned in the previous meeting, deliberately conceals certain data. And that's not what we're saying. They do this for the protection of certain individuals. And I'm gonna say it again. We're not talking. During the previous term of office, the Commission of Inquiry on Banking was led by colleague Pogačnik, and has been constantly confronted by Banka Slovenije, as well as some other banks, but the Central Bank of Slovenia did not wish to provide some data, but they were crucial to clarify some of the issues related to the bank hole. That is why we want the transparency of procedures to prevail in this area. In the coalition, you repeatedly repeat that transparency is important and must be ensured. But the problem is, you're just saying that and you're just defending it. However, when it comes to voting, we will vote on this Friday, and you will press the counter button vehemently and peacefully. And here I see it as a big problem. This means that you, as a coalition, are protecting those who have given bad credits that have caused a bank hole, because otherwise I can't imagine how you can vote against it on Friday. At least that's what your predictions are. As can be seen from the situation in the banking area, the banks' boards acted unsuspectingly and irresponsibly. And the supervisory authorities that were put there to do their job have not done it, so today we have a big problem. And you're resisting actually getting to the most responsible ones who have blamed a multibillion-dollar bank hole. This is why today we have extremely severe and inevitable consequences, particularly in the context of reduced economic growth, the downturn of businesses, the increase in unemployment, and not least the lower standards of each of us, especially our citizens and citizens, who are already in trouble from one month to the next. Many of the citizens and citizens. But the Party of the Modern Centre, which is the largest customer here, will vote against the transparency of procedures on Friday. And that's what I'm worried about, Sir Verbich. So far, I have not heard a concrete argument in this debate why you are against the transparency of the procedures, why do you not want Banka Slovenije to provide the data that, let's say, the investigative commission in the previous mandate has asked for. Not to say that on Friday we will also discuss the re-establishment of an investigative commission in relation to a bank hole, but as far as I know, neither of the members of the Modern Centre Party has signed under an investigative commission, even though you have individuals in your ranks who have been fighting corruption for many years and for having transparent procedures. But they weren't able to sign under the commission of inquiry. So the key problem we have is not legislation. The key problem is to say something and do something completely different, only to keep a beautiful face in front of voters and voters, or else it is done by liking those who have been under the control of the whole country and also the banking system for many years. And that's enough. In view of the fact that you will not vote on Friday for this law or perhaps for an investigative committee, I hope that this is also an appeal to the Modern Centre's Party to realize, however, that it is important if we want to ensure the continued good functioning of the banks, in particular to find those responsible for the multibillion-dollar bank hole that something needs to be done, not just to say. It is said that the investigative commission proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party must be supported. It is not necessary to reject everything the SDS proposes just because it is SDS. It is important that we step together in such projects, which are important for the country, and especially for citizens and citizens, and recognize that it is only by doing so that we can achieve some results. High ethical standards also show up or, in particular, in transparent functioning. I will therefore support the law that we have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party. I also signed it under the commission of inquiry. I'll confirm it on Friday. I hope it will be confirmed by the coalition's parties, even though they have not signed under the commission of inquiry. Mr Jurša, I hope for you, too, that you will support this investigative committee as Head of Desus and that you will be angry, that other Members will also take a responsible approach to this resolution on one side of the banking system and on the other hand to investigate the responsibility of those who have caused a multibillion-dollar bank hole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Ange Logar, get Mrs. Nada Brinovšek ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u90	Thank you, Chairman. The demand for tycoons, bankers and supervisory institutions cost Slovenian taxpayers EUR 5 billion. Given how many inks and media words have been shed on this subject, I would think I don't have to repeat those words. But when I'm listening to the ruling coalition today, and when I look at the timeboard, and I see that the government has left completely intact and intact all the time on the proposal to ensure greater transparency and better leverage for prosecution in some way of organised crime, I must stress once again that the rehabilitation of the banking system cost us each EUR 2 000 500. This may not seem to be such a high amount for officials, i.e. MPs and government representatives, but for citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, with an average salary, it is, believe me, a very high tax for the previously mentioned demand for tycoons, bankers and supervisory institutions. The Slovenian Democratic Party tabled a proposal to amend the Banking Act, which is very simple. We wanted to provide the National Assembly with a tool to enable it to actively engage in organised pursuits of these major frauds. We wonder if the bankers have done everything in their power to prevent such bad practices. They're not. Sometimes it feels like they've been encouraging it. Has the Bank of Slovenia done everything in its power? Probably not. Banka Slovenije explained three months before the historic recapitalisation of the public that the Slovenian banking system is solid. Has Parliament done everything? During his previous term of office, he worked hard, had an investigative committee on the subject, but unfortunately he had hit on the ignorance of supervisory institutions and failed to obtain relevant information for his further work. I think it is in everyone's interest that Parliament is carrying out its task and also exercising its supervisory function in a matter that cost all taxpayers EUR 5 billion. Before that, colleague Weber explained who was the main culprit for the bank hole and so on. These are almost born views of one of the political parties, which, as a winter argument, always puts on the table when the issue of the palm bank hole is at stake. However, given that colleague Weber is only here for a short period of time in this mandate, and probably does not have all the information, he would have reminded him of this report by Banka Slovenije, which was prepared for an extraordinary session on the state of banks, where in the fourth decision of Banka Slovenije, not the SDS Group or anyone else, Banka Slovenije stated that the system or situation in the banking sector further deteriorated the insufficient and late conduct in the banking sector in the period 2008-2011. We know who was at the head of the government from 2008 to 2011. Just for the intermezzo. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which has not yet announced today, explains its opposition to our novelty, among other things, by adding an article on banking secrecy to the Bank's Banking Act by the end of 2013 which says that banks can transmit data to the Court, the State Prosecutor's Office or the police in case of suspicion. We should all be concerned about this argument, the crisis took place at the end of 2008, and this provision, which is purely normal, which should already be in this law, came only five years later. And I'm afraid that what we're saying today and what the government says is unnecessary will be put into the banking law in five years' time, because this will prove necessary. How are you going to apologize for that then? And also this 4.a does not seem to work. We've had this in the Banking Act for a year and a half. Did they lock up any bankers? I don't think so. At least tell me, I don't think I see any special progress here. And if we move on. The government says that these changes that we are proposing are not necessary because the limitation deadlines for criminal and compensation liability are four times what is in the field legislation. So between 12 and 20 years old. If I translate this argument of the government into human language. The government says we still have time. We had time from 2008 to 2013 to put the matter into law, but nothing happened. It's been a year and a half, but nothing happened. And the government says we still have time. In 15 years, when a lot of people here will no longer exist, we will say, "Look, that period is already so far away, don't warm up history, just let it go and live." And in the Government's view, such an intervention in order to enable members of parliament to receive relevant documentation at closed meetings would constitute a disproportionate intervention in banking secrecy. Confidential bank data is the bank's and the commissioner's business secret because it's sensitive data and personal data. But it's not about a day-to-day commissioner who lives honestly, pays taxes fairly and gets paid for his work. This is about fraud, this is about criminal matters that, once again, cost each of us €2,500. And when I read this argument from the government, banking secrecy, among other things, contributes to the Commissioner's trust that the bank will protect the data on his assets. Look, this is very encouraging for the maggots. Even though they have violated and caused us five billion euros in expenses on our account, from our pocket – no, their personal data must be protected because otherwise this would constitute a disproportionate interference with their personal rights. I wonder who these tycoons are protecting from, the Bank of Slovenia, the government and also the coalition, which today says that this law is unnecessary. I can't believe this debate today and the Government's argument reminds me of another debate when we talked about the amendment of anti-terrorist legislation in the face of terrible attacks in Paris and ISIS fighters. At that time, the Minister of Justice here declared to the Council that it was not necessary to reform our penal code. A week ago, when an appropriate resolution was adopted at European level, he told us on the Committee on Foreign Policy that Articles 108 and 111 of the Penal Code would have to be amended. In two months, it's a complete conversion. It is not blinding or rejecting marriage proposals simply because they are proposed by the opposition. The government also says that it is not possible to adopt a position that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and its working bodies require data from a bank as a private entity, because we do not have the right to such data for private entities. But, respected, if these banks were maintained, almost 70% of the Slovenian banking system is in state hands. I wonder if the government has even read our proposal, says that if the bank has accepted state aid or is subject to measures under the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks, i.e. state banks. This is the bank of all of us. However, the government here is saying that we must not obtain data from private entities. We want data from state entities because we supported them because we paid 5 billion for these banks. Further, when it says that a parliamentary inquiry into the most sensitive areas is carried out through a court carrying out specific investigations or carrying out certain evidence. I ask again how many such proceedings we are witnessing. We only witness that every time we get information that the courts are violating human rights and that there is a corrupt person at the head of the Attorney General's Office. Our courts don't actually work. We are deep at the bottom of all international trust charts in the courts. The government therefore excuses non-reaction and inaction in this area. And it dictates to Members that if we find out here ourselves about circumstances that give rise to suspicions of the crime service, we can press charges. It is therefore not possible to establish the position that it is necessary to disclose confidential information for the work of the State Council’s Commissions of Inquiry. Your Honor! Should we therefore work as well as the supposed work of the OAS to produce reports on Telekom on the basis of publicly available information and newspaper articles? Probably not. If we want to get to the bottom of this matter and if we want an effective instrument to be together, along with the other institutions, found guilty of a 5-billion-dollar hole, then we need to act, because otherwise we will be laughed at again by those responsible for such a hole and all institutions will be held accountable to each other. And then it blossoms this government's explanation, it rejects why the government is against disclosure – because of Svetlik's social reform. It states that the recent amendment of the legislation on social transfers, which allowed social work centres direct access to bank data, has led to a significant outflow of deposits from Slovenian banks, and such disclosure would further increase the outflow of deposits. This one's barefoot. Lightening reform. The Minister of the Desus quota and in 2011 the SD candidate in the national elections, i.e. the representative of the two parties to the ruling coalition, is, in the opinion of the Government, the culprit or one of the main reasons his reform cannot accept these changes. But it's pure demagogy! The Commission of Inquiry would not review any committee of state banks, but those cases where suspicion is actually raised, and in those cases where bad credits have been transferred to a bad bank. And let me also grande the finals, why not the government. The first indent, since the previous government has publicly committed itself to making every effort to ensure that those responsible for the situation in the Slovenian banking system are accountable. So that's why I'm not going to change, because the previous government has committed itself. I'm asking again who answered. Furthermore, since the previous government has requested the management authorities of these banks to ensure that the bank actively and proactively cooperates with the Bank of Slovenia, etc. These administrations have not been replaced, except for the two private banks of Forum 21, which cost taxpayers €450 million, and saves an important part of those tycoons that have cooked this bank hole. So the authorities have not changed, but they demand and expect these banks and authorities to cooperate and raise suspicions. And after a year and a half, as I know, there's no result. Next, the next indent – since a coordination group led by Banka Slovenije was formed in early 2014, the emphasis on "formed", not what it did, but designed, and led by Banka Slovenije. So that body that had the task of overseeing it obviously failed to perform this task. And more. Previously mentioned, the vice-governor of this bank, who is now charged with this responsibility, was formerly President of the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank in the period when Nova Ljubljanska Banka received the most reminders from the Bank of Slovenia. And its successor, the President of the Bank of Slovenia Supervisory Board today or during this period becomes the principal supervisor of the DUTB to which these loans have been transferred. My colleague Verbic said that the effects of this accelerated role of Banka Slovenije were already showing that over 100 complaints were filed during this period. I would like once again to draw your attention to this report by the Bank of Slovenia, which says that 20 complaints have been filed between 2008 and 2015. 20 raids in seven years, 5 billion euros. No one will convince me that this is an effective exercise of the supervisory function. And, lastly, introduced in a coalition agreement, the matter is handed over to the Bank of Slovenia. When I asked the Director of the Central Bank about this, he said he didn't know anything about it, but if he did, he would take the appropriate action. I don't know where this change in the legal basis is. If I sum up the government's response, why not give Parliament additional powers to participate fully and actively in the pursuit and collection of information to prosecute this almost organised crime, which cost us 5 billion euros, it is: because the previous government has made a public commitment to the government's engagement, because the former government has called on the Bank of Slovenia to become a self-initiative because an interdepartmental group has been formed and because it is enshrined in the coalition agreement. Now, dear Members, dear Members, we can simply sit down, wait 10, 15 years, because it concerns the statute of limitations four times later, and we postpone this work and leave it to the professionals and those who know. I do not believe, honourable Members, that we were therefore elected to the National Assembly. I think it is an obligation for each of us to correct what has been imported in the past. Last but not least because of the oath of higher moral and ethical standards, a large majority, a record majority in this National Assembly received from one party, a newly established party, and avoiding this responsibility convinces me only that some are really connected in these networks, which cost us so much money, or that those who advocate status quo feel comfortable in this mud and are in their interest that we never get to the bottom of this bank hole as well. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we firmly believe that this time's story must not remain unpunished and that the culprits must be held accountable for the misdeeds and for the enormous costs that have been incurred by the Slovenian people and for the enormous economic downturn that has also arisen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mrs Nada Brinovšek has the floor to prepare Dr. Matej Tašner Vatovec. Mrs. Brinovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u92	President, thank you so much for your word. Look, today we're talking about the banking law, the banks. Probably not because we have a desire to discuss this subject, but because our legislation is extremely bad, it is about banks, about a bank hole. The Banking Act was passed, I believe in 1998, 1999 and covered 200 articles at the time. Throughout all these years, we've come to 408 over a period of 15, 16 years. In view of the fact that the law contains so many articles, I would expect that the more the law is being supplemented, the more the law is being amended, the better it will be. But all these additions and changes to the law, which you also confirmed at the previous meeting of the National Assembly, did not go exactly in the direction of improving the banking position itself. Here I mean that the law still does not allow the National Assembly to obtain relevant data from banks that could prevent irregularities and inefficiency in the Slovenian banking system. The situation, we note, can be increasingly poor, which is unfortunately also felt by our citizens in their pockets, Slovenia is falling on all the competition scales and in the media we are monitoring all the information that the country is spreading and is spending its money uneconomically. On the basis of this existing law, which was adopted or previously amended in 134 articles at the previous meeting of the National Assembly, we will still not eliminate the causes and dangers that have led Slovenia to the situation where the rehabilitation and recapitalisation of banks had to solve the so-called hole. This law still does not allow us to prevent the new banking gambling that we have witnessed in recent years and all the anomalies that have taken place in this regard. The law still does not provide penalties for those responsible, it is said for the regulator, that is, the Bank of Slovenia. We do not have a provision under which banks that have been recapitalised should be returned to the state budget in the event of a profit. The responsibility of Banka Slovenije until Parliament is also not determined. Therefore, I think it is still important that, in the event that the bank has received money from the State, data that has so far been confidential become available for the purposes of the work of the National Assembly and the Commission of Inquiry. What would be most important for detecting irregularities in banking over the past few years is certainly that the definition of banking secrecy should be changed to allow for the determination of responsibility for the situation in the banking system. This could determine who is responsible for paying more than €5 billion by taxpayers at the last recapitalisation, not to say from their pockets. The essence of everything is that the situation is as it is, but above all, the granting of friendly and political loans and the fact that those who signed these loans were convinced that nothing could happen to them. In view of the existing legislation, I must say that this is unfortunately true. But I think it's clear exactly who is preparing a contract, whether this contract is well prepared or not, whether it's prepared perfectly to be bypassed. The one who prepares this contract and does not finally sign it is still responsible for this money coming back to the bank, because the bank is meant to borrow money and make sure that this money is returned to the bank, of course with some profit. I think it's just an individual's banking culture and the responsibility of everyone. When the contract is concluded, there is no way back, and if the contract is not respected, all laws are in vain. In the coalition contract of the Government of Mir Cerar, you have a respected coalition written: "To ensure that confidence in financial institutions, supervisory institutions and the rule of law is restored, the coalition will investigate and determine responsibility for the bank hole." I'd like to know how you're going to conduct this investigation and determine the responsibility for the bank hole, but if you don't have a legal basis on which to access these files. If you're serious about what you wrote in the coalition contract, you'll need information, as I said before, that's still classified as bank secrecy. I therefore propose that you facilitate your work and support our proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec has the floor to prepare Mr. Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I would just like to further explain the position of the United Left. The proposer clearly believes that the banking crisis or the consequence of all these things that led to the bank hole is, in fact, a crime or a crime. It is not aware, however, that this is also due to one of the biggest crises of capitalism since 1929, the weaknesses of the euro area and, above all, the poor governance of the then government. The credit maps of the bad credits that have now agreed on the DUTB have been more or less disclosed, and of this there has been little effect, we have not reached any significant conclusions that would help us to identify the causes of this crisis. This opening of new folders would not significantly help anything. As regards the government's economic errors between 2004 and 2008, the Bank of Slovenia's report of 2 March this year, which came exactly at the request of the SDS, states: that government has not implemented countercyclical measures that would be necessary after taking over the euro, implemented a pro-cyclical tax reform, thus contributing to overheating the economy, halting the 2% structural deficit in only the last two years, contributing to inflating the prices of financial and real property, including by speeding up the construction of highways with Dars' debt. If I only mention between 2005 and 2006, this debt increased by 1.46 billion and 53%. It also contributed to the excess liquidity of banks by borrowing abroad to pay off domestic banks prematurely. So much for the government's performance indicators. The success of that government, as has already been heard many times today, is felt by the banks, felt by the companies that have landed at the DUTB, felt by the 120 thousand registered unemployed and, last but not least, by the incredible rate of those who live below or on the threshold of poverty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Jurša has the floor to prepare Mr Jože Tanko. I'm sorry, proposalant, I missed it. Mag. Marko Pogačni, here you go. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u96	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Short answer to that last question. I call on Members and Members of the United Left to be present at the meetings and to listen to what is happening. I have repeatedly mentioned the matter that I have a personal opinion that a 5-billion-dollar hole would probably be unfair if we said that it was just a crime. There must have been other causes. But I find it hard to believe that a five billion-billion-dollar hole is just the cause of, I would say, a financial or economic crisis, and that the regulator didn't do it either. You provide a report from the Bank of Slovenia. I suggest if you're saying something, then you're saying it in full. Once again, the government of Janez Janša in the period 2004-2008 had no possibility of influencing legal and physical entities in the policy of indebtedness. Not only the government of Janez Janša, but the current government and all other governments have no influence. And so many things have been said to this day, and there will be many more. But I don't understand that you're so vehemently rejecting all of our proposals. I also expect a different debate from you on Friday or also [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] concerning the Commission of Inquiry. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nice greetings to my friends and friends. I might start with some chronology, but I'm not going to explain it in too detail. We refer to those who were already sitting in these benches when this law was passed. You may also remember, quite a lot of you, how it was complemented, or how amendments were proposed, as well as certain amendments to these articles. I'm mentioning this because we're going to refresh our memory a little bit. All of you who were then probably remember that well. A number of observations were made to certain governments. I think that this does not lead us to the desired goal, to what we would like through this debate, through this change, and then perhaps through an investigation that should also be confirmed on Friday. One thing has encouraged me a little, and I will now answer it to Mr Logar. Mr Svetlik has never been proposed on our side as Minister. Perhaps someone has interpreted that he was of the Desus quota, but after his immediate election at the next State elections after the end of his post, it was clear which quota Mr Svetlik belonged to, even though I have a relatively good opinion on Dr Svetlik. But if we're talking about a coalition treaty, there are things written in the coalition contract. I personally, as well as the parliamentary group I belong to, take it very seriously. Also with this title, from this point of view, I think we are taking the matter seriously and that we want certain matters to be investigated. In all of this, we must respect what we have also recorded in certain acts of the National Assembly, especially in the Rules of Procedure. You know, with regard to the recognition of the investigative commission's institute, here I'm going to say relatively directly. I'm going to say it very directly. I have an opinion on this institute. You let me know, colleagues and colleagues, any of us, maybe other than those who were lawyers and judges, can lead the investigation. All of us, I'm sorry, but I'm not going to mention professions, but it's really very hard to lead this thing by reaching the desired goal. Now I'm going to go to the amendment of the law and explain why I won't support the change of law. Before that, I'm going to say that I'm going to support Friday's investigator. Disclosure of confidential data on individual committees could interfere with bank secrecy or would not be useful for individuals and not for the institution. Since the Law on Parliamentary Investigation — I mentioned earlier — explicitly states that a parliamentary inquiry into the most sensitive areas is carried out through courts dealing with specific investigations or carrying out certain evidence. This is said to be why we have a competent institution working in the interest of the investigation and of the most difficult matters also to investigate. Here I wonder if we are and how qualified we are to perform such acts. I simply and simply judge and evaluate – this is my personal position – which we are not capable of. Maybe some individual of us. I have said this, however, what kind of references, or what kind of profession, this Member or Member should have. Of course, in any case, we must determine the responsibility of those who have granted bad loans and have brought us into the trouble we are in, and we must replace these same people. However, if these people cannot be replaced or taken appropriate action against them, we need to amend our own legislation in the country and enable an effective investigation and, in the end, a successful judicial epilogue. The Banking Act was badly written. It does not contain all the elements which it should have in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The applicant misrepresents the legal arrangements of at least three European Union countries relating to this legal area. So you need to take a look at this. I have examined it with our professional service, and I evaluate it in the same way as my previous statement. I wish I could get rid of all the causes of the bank hole as soon as possible. It is likely that everyone in this room thinks similarly that all who caused this hole are brought before the hand of justice, and that all those who acted contrary to the law are also properly punished. This would be the conclusion of my debate, because there have been many words in this Chamber of the National Assembly at the expense of banking that are measured in hours, in days and even in weeks. In all these mandates, as far as I am sitting in the National Assembly, this is topic number one. We have also not resolved it with any parliamentary investigations. We need to resolve it by taking matters to the right place, so we have to grab the corners of those who have caused this hole to us.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Replica, mag. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u100	Thank you. I have to replicate the words that the law is badly written. The law is well written, the law is very short. Perhaps, Comrade Jurša, we should say that there is something missing in the explanation that the Government is warning about, not the law. The law is well written and believe that the SDS Group in two articles will not make any spectacular mistake so that the law can be described as bad. In fact, I am pleased to announce this message to the leaders of the Desus Group to support the establishment of an investigative commission on Friday. In this respect, I wonder why they did not contribute to the signatures and why this commission of inquiry could actually start its work. However, it is a slightly interesting position – namely this proposal for a law tabled by the SDS – which gives this investigative commission additional leverage to work effectively in the pursuit or investigation of bad practices in Slovenian banking. I also wonder what the message is to taxpayers and, in general, to those who participated in the elections if a member of the National Assembly says that he does not know if we are capable of conducting such an investigation and that there is no human being or only who could lead this investigative commission. If a group of Members does not see in its own kind a representative who could participate competently in this committee or lead this committee competently, I assure you that there are a lot of competent people in other groups of Members who could do so. Last but not least today we have heard some serious debates from various parties, not least one such investigator has already been led by Mr Pogačnik, a member of the Slovenian Democratic Party, and has led well, but unfortunately time has passed the conclusion of this Commission. However, I would appeal to this, I think that in the National Assembly there are quite a number of high-quality Members from various parliamentary groups, from different directions, and I am convinced that, with an appropriate legal basis, the National Assembly can make a very high-quality contribution and actively contribute to the detection of the frauds that have taken place in the banking sector. I therefore appeal once again to support our proposal for a law and thus to the investigators, who I hope will be set up on Friday, to provide an additional arsenal of measures that will enable them to participate effectively and actively in the search for culprits for the resulting bank hole and in some way also in the implementation of the commitments that you, the ruling coalition, have made in the coalition contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u101	Thank you very much. There's no replica on the replica, Mr. Jurša. Procedural? Here you go, Mr. Jursha.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u102	I will take this opportunity and the opportunity to actually apologize for the error I have made in my debate. In fact, I should have said what my colleague Logar said that you were not consistent in your explanation. I'd still say one thing. You know, one is to hold a debate and speak politically in these benches, and the other is to conduct a high-quality investigation. All those who have already been to the investigative commissions know how it is running and what results have usually been generated in the investigative commissions and what has happened after these discussions. I took advantage of this opportunity and the opportunity to say what I meant through this institute in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u103	Mr. Logar, procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Your colleague addressed you with a procedural question, although he was looking at me, and I'm going to address you procedurally, and I'm going to watch Comrade Jursha. See, precisely because you have found that in the past investigative commissions the results were not as expected, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group also tabled this change, as I said it provides the Commission with additional tools in this regard, but a key area that marks this period of economic recovery or non-recovery of the Republic of Slovenia. That is precisely why I think that this change should be supported but not rejected by the Priory simply because it is proposed by the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The last part of this first part of the majority work is Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that. It was very interesting to hear debates or very few debates by coalition members, who more or less all of them refer to how they would not extend their powers under this law in order to allow for an insight into that part of the bank's operations, when the bank needs a state intervention. This reference, and even more so, this silence of the remaining majority of the coalition or of the Turkish coalition, is spoken of, because in no way do these discussions reflect the link between transparency and responsibility and between what you intend to do. With no action in this mandate in these eight months since September, you have not shown any willingness to make any link between the transparency of the operation of any system and the responsibility for the situation in that system. The banking system is a key system. It was mentioned here that the recapitalisation of banks with 2 000 500 euros per capita was carried out. This simply says that it means 4 minimum wages. The annual 4 minimum wages were paid by every citizen of this Republic. So, now that you're talking about social, take 4 minimum wages for people or pensioners, and you'll see how much their contribution to recapitalisation was. This can be calculated very quickly. I must say, I am also somewhat disappointed with this argument. Mr. Jurša spoke here about the lack of explanation in our marriage. They're not! Every law goes over the board of the services of the National Assembly and, in the event that the law does not meet the conditions for inclusion in the system, this law is rejected and sent for supplementation. This law of this procedure has not been experienced by the National Assembly and I regret that Mr Jurša has read the full opinion of the Government, which refers to why this law is not necessary or why we oppose it. That's exactly what you did. I can read this opinion to you again, with all the emphasis that you've given me. The government does not – especially the government of Mira Cerar, which operates in these explanations so flawedly and which proposes laws in the legislative process that do not meet at all the criteria by means of a reduced or urgent procedure – that it assesses the value or quality of the law. That seems to me, to say the least, totally unnecessary. You now have the Foreign Affairs Act on the table, which is not related to any resolution to be adopted and proposed by the Government following an urgent procedure and refers to the resolution and costs of publication in the Official Journal. That's bullshit. It can't be any more. But the coalition MPs calmly raised your hand on the college and confirmed this proposal. That's ridiculous! If you, Mr. Jurša, are so consistent when you read government arguments, then you would also read some government law. Some have more amendments than articles, coalition editors and corrections, as well as substantive ones. But there's nothing bothering you, not integrity, not perfection, I don't know what. I must say that this government coalition of Mir Cerar, as well as the previous coalition of Alenka Bratušek and the previous coalition of Mr Pahor, are systematically defending any amendment of laws that would link transparency and responsibility. Systematic! Let me tell you in which act, such as the European Central Bank, says that in such cases, as we propose, responsibility cannot be required. We can even ask the governor. This is the position of the ECB. If you carefully read the opinion of our Act amending the Bank of Slovenia, you will see it. There is no institution in Europe, it is not to prevent responsibility for crimes committed! Even when it comes to banking, including insurance, social or other matters. She's not here! The European Central Bank does not prevent this, does not prevent GRECO, does not prevent the European Commission, nor does anyone. It is only in the National Assembly that obstacles are systematically accepted that this cannot be done. It is only the National Assembly within the EU that prevents the responsibility of those who have not done their tasks, as is expected or required of them. For what reason, say, are proceedings against certain bank officials, rather than against bank directors? For what reason?Oh, my God! Now I also ask you who were in the former coalition of Mrs Alenka Bratušek. Is the method of controlling the liquidation of Factor Bank and Probank related to the political links between the directors of these banks and the officials of that government? The director of the bank was Cyril Dragonja, an official of that government was Mr. Method Dragonja. He's sitting here with us today, too. I ask you whether there is any direct link between Alenka Bratušek's proposal and her financial minister in connection with the functional link between one cabinet official in the government of Alenka Bratušek and one of the directors in one of those banks that were supervised to be liquidated – but have previously been charged with deposits so that all those things could be transferred out and paid off dividends in the last two months before the imposition of the supervised liquidation, and I do not know what else. We're talking about simple things. I expect from all those who are here and have participated in those decisions and have been so vehemently supported in the National Assembly, a clear answer. I also expect an answer from Mr Dragonje. It is difficult to get rid of the impression that these two banks were released into controlled liquidation and previously recapitalised only because of some connections. Because it was about issuing national interests. I do not think it is in any national interest that two small banks, on the one hand the director, are thus being rehabilitated, and on the other hand the state official, who are related. Let's not talk about any other connections. Now you're saying that, if I understand correctly, you'll be supporting an investigative committee on Friday. All right! I believe you already have a chosen person to lead this commission of inquiry. This will probably be one of the coalition MPs. I hope that this is not someone who has been identified as a lawbreaker between Members and has been sanctioned in one way or another. That you'll give it to the investigative commission because you obviously don't trust us, someone who meets all the criteria in terms of legal integrity. That it would not be someone who was perhaps not even aware involved in certain procedures that were illegal and would then lead an investigative committee on banks. This is a total discreditation of the procedure that you will support by, in the same way as I previously spoke about controlled liquidation, leading the inquiry commission in the way that Mr Weber spoke about, and I do not know, Mr Vatovec and others, when everyone focused on the problem 2004-2008, when there were no problems in this country, and missed the period 2008 or 2009, 2011, when Mr Pahor, even when the Prime Minister of the Government, said that he had underestimated the problems of the banking system. He literally said that: we underestimated the problems of the banking system. And so he did, not only did he say that, but the conduct of the government of that time was: closing his eyes to all the problems that escalated at the time. Until then, probably more crimes have occurred within the banking system, and many of the bad investments in foreign markets that are now coming back to us, so that foreign, southern markets are buying our best brands, and so on. This has been the case with all this support of government instruments during this period. I think it's going to be a big problem if this is the way you go about these projects. I would like to remind you again of one Commission report on anti-corruption, the 2010 annual report. If you look at page 2, you will get a description of systemic corruption. This report was signed by the current Minister of Justice of the Magi. Goran Klemenčič and says that systemic corruption is any achievement or creation of normative, institutional, status or procedural conditions or circumstances in order to enable the benefit of official or natural and legal persons to the detriment of public funds. So if the solution that we are proposing, which is in the direction of impeding privileged positions in the direction of transparency, is transparency and the link between this transparency and responsibility, then this will be fine. However, if this proposal is rejected, you are an integral part of the definition of systemic corruption. An integral part of the definition of systemic corruption! This is because some individuals, some stakeholders, and so on, from the point of view of the interests of organised crime or capital, will have an exceptional situation, an exceptional circumstance. That in such a large recapitalisation, especially the latter, and that there are so many unsecured or poorly insured or untransferable bad bank claims to which they should be transferred is not just the emergence of a global banking crisis or a global banking crisis. That's not the result. This is also due to irresponsible conduct. I would like to remind you that this commission of inquiry, which we will talk about on Friday, will not be the first in the banking field. We already had an Ultra Commission of Inquiry, where it was blocked in every way possible to look at unsecured loans, which have been given several times under poor insurance and at low interest rates, you have this in your file. One of the investigative commissions was led by Mr Posedel – also covers a similar area. It was a series of take-over activities and so on. The former Mr Weber, as colleague Pogačnik has already identified, has not been included in the meeting of the National Assembly, but it could have been because there was enough time. There was enough time, but he didn't. And now, gentlemen who have made a procedural obstacle explain how and what should be done and what should be wisely supported. Fine, we missed the season, the mandate to come up with some conclusions, we missed a lot in this area. By the way, there have also been many procedural obstacles that your Member has put on an investigative committee with various complications regarding definitions and findings. Mr Frangež has been here for about a month, including the preparation of an interim report. And now you're going to prove to be the main fighters for this. I say that the setting up or abandoning of duties, including in the area of banking – one of the duties is what we have proposed with our legislation, that is, high treason. That's treason! If you abandon your duty, you do not accept what you should, in order to achieve a goal that we also need to achieve. I don't think it's an interest or us, probably not you, just that in two years we're gonna come up with three minimum wage extra burdens on taxpayers, that we're gonna fix the rest of the bad claims that aren't transferred to the banking system or to a bad bank. This may not be the imperative of any healthy, fair, right policies. It can't be. I'm surprised you're the one who's just saying some things that you're against. You have received the last election, especially the largest coalition party, by talking about ethics, about inclusive ethics in all areas, it is said that there will be no deviation from ethical conduct, from ethical rules and standards and codes and I do not know what; you have said that absolute respect for the rule of law – absolutely, there is no tolerance, there is no step away – and you have done everything else in practice already in the first step! For the Minister of Justice, you have given someone who has violated 8 laws, now that the Supreme Court has established or found a violation of the Constitution and human rights in the proceedings he conducted, something else is likely to happen in this area, because it is not the only procedure and so on. The inability of the government coalition to respond to everything that is going on in the field of the prosecution and the unequivocal conclusion that corruption was a matter for the Attorney-General's Office in the process, the finding that now or probably the Constitutional Court will cancel certain judicial procedures for the second time, but there is no response in the mainstream policy in this mandate. Everything points to something: we have already done, more than I can do, we expect a response and so on. If the Prime Minister, the Minister of Justice, who is directly responsible for this, or the President of the State cannot make clear words in cases of such screaming corruption and illegality, and I do not know what the conduct is, then something is wrong with this country and its officials. And the politicians of this work would then lead an investigative commission and investigate — their own. It's impossible that something clever will come out of this, except that something will be accepted and hidden from what was actually happening. If the governors who have not done their job are as expected and entrusted to them, and nothing has happened to any of these governors, then something in this country is wrong. Even in Italy, even about 10 years ago, the governor of the Italian central bank Fazia – there was no problem, but I am talking about Italy, which is not exactly a model of transparency, transparency or perhaps more. Some of us are completely untouchable. We are also talking about the last case of the ATVP when you were recruiting the director of a person who, in one way or another, has roots in the formation of parking spaces or has not seen parking spaces in some role or has his wife as a member of the institution that has overlooked it, means that it is a continuation of the system. If you are running such a human resources policy, where this is easily determined that the stock exchange did not work at the time, that at the time one director of the legal service was the wife of the gentleman you appointed, and then the main parking spaces were created, then something in this country is wrong. You give a pre-emptive signal as to what policy will be pursued. No responsibilities, no transparency, but just throw up the filling, something is accepted by mainstream, the media cover it and the wagon goes on. But the bill comes in 15 years or five years from now, just like the accounts came in for all these stories. Mr. Weber was talking about the former SDK. Do you know what happened to the former SDK? The moment Romana Logar and Bogomir Špiletic filed complaints against, I don't know, 770 directors in companies for damage to social property, Drnovskov's government, the Privatisation Secretary and Mr Rop abolished SDK. That moment! And threw them on the road. It established two institutions, none of which did what SDK did. That's when it happened. But it's not the only case that this happened. When the Systemic Technology affair took place during the time of the Robbery Government and that subterranean agreement signed and this corruption occurred in this government project, you succeeded in setting up the law of ZPKor and establishing the Commission to prevent corruption. Dear Hair for Chief, and Brother Dragos led administrative business in Systemic Engineering. From this came the affair of John Janša, and what is now happening in this court, with these trials. That's what you do. This is the technology of work that those who follow these matters a little bit more easily see. What happened to the bank hole? KPK reviewed the system, found that there were some grey eminences of the banking system, always the same when you asked for a name — no names! For the prize, the person who investigated this bank hole when he refused to say one name got a job at the bank he was reviewing as soon as he resigned. Did something happen? Did you respond to anything? Did you call a press conference, a state bank assembly, to replace the board of directors? Did you do something? Nothing at all. And now we are talking here about who will lead the Commission to investigate the hole in the banking system. Neither did you verbally condemn these and take no action at the level of the coalition in the National Assembly, but at the meetings we had, you blocked all the conclusions we proposed regarding the banking system and the government did not respond at all. She winked a little with her shoulders — and they say it's not their jurisdiction. Tell me, did someone — when Minister Weber was still Minister — respond? He didn't! and talk about how to protect national interest, capital in banks, shy birds, etc. Under this formula, under the direction of a shy bird, everything escaped, it was deposited in Cyprus, the Cayman Islands, etc. It's all a shy bird. Instead of reviewing, identifying and processing the matter. We're not helped by any Icelandic model while you're here as long as you're on the government one that doesn't respond to such excesses that happen. It doesn't help, Mr. Weber. Nothing. It doesn't help. Nothing. There is no guarantee that anything will happen, there is no confidence that anything will be done in this area. If you had, even in the National Assembly of Activities, if you tried to improve our conclusions, if they weren't good enough for you, you would understand, but if everything was blocked, if everything was declared unnecessary, if it was declared incomplete and I don't know what, if you didn't do anything and put your head away when those excesses showed up, then some confidence that anything would happen in this area could not be. That's impossible. I can just, I'll say, pianistly sold, paint a few hundred thousand people there for the next term and nothing else. And there's going to be a train going forward and there's going to be a new account behind this train that's going to be at least as much as it was at this last recapitalisation. I want to know what will happen in this area. What will the government do if government officials are directly related to those who are to be investigated? How is this going to work? Despite all the conclusions that are going on, let's say in the judiciary, in a court that in one way or another cancels certain things, nothing is done completely to try to improve the case. We have proposed to shame the amendment of five laws in the field of justice, with a focus on GRECO, to ethical standards in the judiciary, between prosecutors, judges and so on. You can't even enforce it with Fisher, and you don't want it! Not even at Maslesha! Both the chiefs, the state's attorney's office and the Supreme Court. What is the point of adopting such novel laws, after some very fast procedures, if now, when it is clear, the first among the ministers covering this area is that he has done everything. But he didn't suggest anything. He only wrote one letter to the State Attorney's Office. The amendment of the law should propose that, if the Council of State does not do so within 14 days, the Government will do so or the National Assembly. These are measures that help to resolve the situation quickly, not by misinterpreting and covering with some other stories, accusations, indictments of some people who have nothing to read and simply discredit and destroy in this way. This should be done, not this coalition debate, which is more or less unnecessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Dragonja, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have put forward the position of the Government, which was tabled by the Government in the parliamentary procedure on the proposal of the amendment of the law. I appreciate that this opinion has been prepared with sufficient care and that it is also duly justified. And I also gave something in the introduction. We believe that Article 126 of the new Banking Act, ZBan-2, makes it possible to access classified data, even in the case of parliamentary investigations, since Article 126 provides that this access is possible if it is provided by another law, and that law is the Law on Parliamentary Investigation. In this regard, the Constitutional Court has also been defined and it has been stated, as it has been said, that the investigating committees of the National Assembly and other working bodies can, in fact, operate in a manner similar to that of the courts in criminal proceedings. Furthermore, the Government has also taken into account in drawing up its opinion the concerns related to the legal regulation of the European Union, in particular the two Directives. The first is Directive 2013/36 on the exchange of information and business secrets, which, according to the Government, does not provide a legal basis for disclosure of confidential information to the National Assembly as such, and the second, under Directive 2014/59 on the exchange of confidential information on resolution with parliamentary investigation committees, where there is no limit to the exchange of information under the provisions of this Directive. This Directive provides that Member States may authorise the exchange of information with the parliamentary commission of inquiry in the Member State concerned, but only under appropriate conditions, this is to say that the provisions of such legislation must then take into account the general purpose of protecting business secrets, including ensuring that there are adequate mechanisms for maintaining confidentiality of information such as content, as well as the provision of content and detailed plans for the recovery and resolution of situations resulting from the possible disclosure of such confidential information. Finally, we must make sense of the Constitutional Court's decision to act on the Public Information Access Act in the part where there was talk about access to information about the bad credits that remained on banks. On this point, the constitutional provision has decided that this information is not information of a public nature, and by analogy, we can confirm here that the Constitutional Court's decision provides that banking secrecy has priority over access as regards public character. Once again, we believe that it is also possible to exchange information with business banks through the application of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation if appropriate mechanisms are provided to safeguard the confidentiality of this information.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u109	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the list of applicants who wanted to, and he's got his word. We have some time left, so I'm asking if there's still a desire for a debate. I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Vice President. In the first place, I'd still like to take the following few words. In the future, I would like to ask that, as the leader of this process in the National Assembly, in spite of everything, Members be reminded to limit themselves to the topic on the agenda in their debates. In opening, I would also like to explain to my colleagues and colleagues, when it came from the Member, the proposaler said that there were few debaters. I have to give an explanation that it simply happened that the time available, I somehow simply bought myself. What I wanted to explain now is just a few comments that I do not agree with, but I will not appoint them. I am myself firmly in the position that we must have Members in the first place, and this is about today's topic, respect for the Constitution, and one of the fundamental principles of the Constitution is the rule of law. Because there were quite a few words in this context, and I think that they have evolved into a completely different substance when the individual may have been discussing it. Here I will refer to the already answered by my distinguished colleague Pogačnik, and I will reiterate: the difference between the proposed group of Members and the SMC is mainly in the way of reaching the goal of defining responsibility and the related material and compensation liability in recapitalised banks. Since it has been a certain degree of provocation on the part of individuals who propose, I will allow myself to repeat very briefly what I have already mentioned today. 215. Article 1 of the Bank Act makes it very clear that: "The right and duty to declare a crime and file an accusation with the competent authorities is the right of each individual," specifically in the law, "also of Members, if they find out about circumstances which give rise to suspicion..." and so on. Here I ask whether any of the Members have taken this opportunity to date and filed a criminal complaint. Why not? If that wasn't the case, it's interesting why it didn't come in. Following up on the debate on the parliamentary commission of inquiry. I think we might be having a little bit of fun here at one point. According to the law and the rules of procedure of the parliamentary commission of inquiry, it is clear that this parliamentary commission of inquiry notes only the political responsibility of the most responsible in the individual places. This is precisely the difference, which, in a certain direction, I have previously pointed out that the SMC Group, or if I may say a coalition, has entered into a coalition contract, which has also been quoted by the members of the proposalrs as being very selective in which way and how this is done. And it has to be implemented. The talk was that I know or don't know how many of these activities are now being carried out or how and what. I must admit that the number 107 of criminal complaints filed by Banka Slovenije – this is the information that has been declared by representatives of Banka Slovenije on the working body as well. It is said that what I also mentioned by the SMC Group, we see here some real possibility that things will really start to move, because it is the agreement between the police and the Bank of Slovenia that makes this possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u112	Thank you again for saying so, and given that colleague Tanko has somehow tried to point out in the first place that we are some or some are dishonest, that only on this side, where the proposal comes from, or on its part when the proposal comes, is sincere. See, if we were to be honest with this bill today, then we would not be putting it into a law that would cease to apply practically at a time when this amendment of the law can even be adopted here today. That's the dishonesty. Thus, the time has been spent to not least draw attention to many things, many shortcomings, and to exchange many information not least. But to speak of honesty when you file a law that you know of, if the National Assembly accepts that it will cease to apply at the same time, then it is very unfair. I have pointed out this in both the position of the Group of Members and later that this law is in fact irrelevant because it will not, in practice, apply or be enforced. However, as far as all other matters are concerned, I must point out that the Social Democrats, in establishing a coalition agreement for this government, have also requested provisions to be entered into a coalition treaty talking about the initiation of an investigation, because a bank hole has been created, and also to define responsibilities and, of course, to restore confidence in financial institutions and so on. So, on the proposal of the Social Democrats, this is in the coalition treaty, which speaks of the fact that many of the experiences that we have had during this period really want to pass on to such a stage, to clear up this relationship, and not finally to do – I hope – order precisely because of this, if we do not solve this issue, we will again wonder from year to year where this money is, where these billions have left Slovenia. The figures were written in very high numbers in the media. If only part of these amounts could be returned legally to Slovenia, of course, it would be easy to repay the entire public debt of the Republic of Slovenia, there would be no problem. And yes, this is something that needs to be discussed very seriously in this Parliament and the experience of Iceland, which I have mentioned, shows that they have succeeded in this agreement in Parliament, they have been able even to have such a large, strong agreement that they have spoken and have also agreed to amend the Constitution, to amend the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In short, including acts for which a two-thirds majority is required. And this political consensus is, of course, essential if we are to close these issues and raise people's confidence in representative democracy, that is, in Parliament and in Members and Members. All too often, we are faced with finding that we are getting certain laws into the procedure and finally, when it is adopted in Parliament, it ends briefly: because Parliament has accepted this! So there is a very great responsibility in Parliament, and unfortunately many do not recognize these responsibilities in the way that many laws have been passed that have been removed from the mandate of the National Assembly. That's a big mistake. When I spoke about the need to change certain laws in Slovenia – yes, Parliament must regain greater weight, greater reputation also through having greater powers or having such powers as it had at the beginning of the independent route of the Republic of Slovenia. And in this direction, we need to think, and I just wanted to point out that this debate can, to a large extent, be held when we are discussing the establishment of a commission on Friday for this purpose. Today, however, has been spent, but for a law that cannot be enforced in practice, and I have therefore said that this law is in fact irrelevant.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Pogačnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u114	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues! I think it was well-intentioned on our part, even in December 2013, when we proposed this law. Even now, as a proposaler, I have said earlier that the reference to the fact that in about a bad month's time will come into force that there is no weight, if any good will has been shown here, or I would say, the possibility of some cooperation or agreement with the proposal to disclose bank secrecy for banks where we tax collectors have saved the matter could then, with some amendment, upgrade it in the Banking Act-2. However, the fact is that even this time a large part of the parliamentary groups, especially the political parties that somehow belong to the left-hand half, will not support this. The reasons are probably the most familiar to you, but no doubt banking is supposed to remain a taboo or a hidden topic. Today's debate, I think in some segments it has shown in particular where Slovenian banking in Slovenia is most vulnerable. Above all, I think that we should devote more time not to consequences, but mainly to the causes of this crisis. I expect Friday's darkness to go more this way. Again, the Slovenian Democratic Party is proposing that the National Assembly vote investigative committee on irregularities in the banking system. Many times today it has been mentioned by SMC's colleague, Mr Verbic, that the difference between SMC and SDS and, above all, that you see this path differently and the goal. This is your path or this goal I'd like to hear. You somehow closed this case, we have some kind of agreement between the police and the Bank of Slovenia. I have already said, Banka Slovenije is a regulator and in my personal opinion Banka Slovenije bears a great responsibility for the resulting banking crisis and banking system. How would someone responsible for the banking crisis be the one to pursue the matter? I think that the Bank of Slovenia and its decisions should also be taken under scrutiny; not only one year ago, but about ten years ago. Then you spoke a lot about material liability and criminal liability. All these matters are already covered by three laws: the Bank of Slovenia Act, the Bank of Slovenia Act and the Company Act. You asked whether any of the Members or any of the Members had filed a criminal complaint. Dear colleague, on what grounds do you not have access to documents? How are you going to put it? We do not work on indications and on similar matters and on structures, probably this is the practice of some others. And if you don't have a document, I think it's hard for you to decide to file a suspicion. The decision is yours, the vote will take place on Friday, but I think that it was already through today's debate that it was recognised that the amendment of the law and the amendment of the law proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, despite the fact that it was the first reading, would not be supported in this national assembly. But, of course, all those who vote against it also accept part of your responsibility in one way.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u115	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Friday in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes item 9 of the agenda. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Slovenian National Holding Act. The draft law was tabled by a group of six Members and Members with the first-signed Luke Moon. At its 8th session, on 7 April 2015, the draft law was considered by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as the parent working body. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after its final consideration, the second consideration of the draft law was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The management of state-owned capital investments has been the subject of many legislative changes in recent years, but none of these changes have come to life in practice. Consequences – poor governance, low yields, exhaustion of such companies and marked significant falls of Slovenia on the international scale of economic competitiveness. We may sometimes be too deluding about positive economic growth last year, in 2014, but everything depends on which year we measure gross domestic product growth in 2014. We think we should measure it from 2008, so it was in the year before the recession and then we see that after six years we are still behind. In other words, in 2015 we are still at the development stage in 2008. Why? Because in 2008, the gross domestic product was 37 000 305 million euros, in 2014, 37,000 246 million euros, which meant that last year's GDP was 0.16% lower compared to 2008. If we remember the last five years, the area of capital investment management has been regulated by as many as three laws: the Capital Investment Management Act was the basis for the establishment of the Capital Investment Management Agency, followed by the Slovenian State Holding Act, which would transfer all state-owned capital investments to the Slovenian State Holding. After a good year, the law was repealed and a new Act on Slovenian State Holding was adopted, version 1, which returned to the former Capital Investment Management Act as regards capital investment management concepts. However, the common denominator of all three laws was planned to adopt a capital investment management strategy. We do not have this strategy until today. Following the current law, the deadline for submitting a government proposal for a strategy expired on 12 July last year. We know that we had elections in the middle, but the current government is still late in preparing a capital investment management strategy. Thus, capital investment management is still subject to a transitional regime under which the National Assembly agrees to have capital investments over the value of EUR 20 million. In this light, the proposal to amend and supplement the law tabled by the United Left in the parliamentary procedure is not in fact necessary at this time. New Slovenia - Christian Democrats are convinced that the preparation of the strategy and its adoption with the widest possible consensus, professional and political, is one of the most important obligations of the current government. Then it is necessary to continue to privatise property owned by the State. The fact is that companies, of course, also have better private-owned banks, higher yields and more rational business. We believe that the country is not the one to lead and direct the economy and economic activities of individuals, but to provide only a regulatory framework for these activities, and the country is the one to take care of those public goods defined by the consensus as such. It's a social security system, a health system, an education system, a defense system. The proposal for amendments and the amendment of the Slovenian State Holding Act, which has been incorporated into the parliamentary procedure, is, in our opinion, unnecessary at this time. We add that Nova Slovenija opposes the constant change of legislation, as stability is also important in the business environment in addition to favourable tax conditions. Potential investors who decide to invest plan their business activities for a few years and expect that the current legislation will not constantly change, not in a direction that would significantly interfere with the situation of business operators on the market. Members of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats We did not support the draft amendments and additions to the Slovenian State Holding Act on the home labour body. The proposal for a law on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy was not supported, so the legislative process is closed.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mag. Alenka Bratušek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Alliance Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u118	Thank you, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are talking about the management of state property through the Slovenian State Holding. With regard to the management of capital investments, the existing law has four main objectives: to separate the function of the State as the owner of the property from its functions - first; second - to manage all investments – All in one place – from KAD, SOD, PDP and DSU; to reduce the impact of political and interest groups on the one hand; and, on the other, to prevent the kidnapping of a company by an individual or a lobby; and fourth, to reduce corruption risks and to prevent conflicts of interest. It is for these purposes that supervisory mechanisms have been introduced, such as: supervision by the Court of Auditors – the operation of SDH and its subsidiaries is under the jurisdiction of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, supervision of operations of course; the ESSO advisory body, that is, the Economic and Social Committee, which has the status of the consultative body of the SDH administration and therefore does not have managerial and management functions – the ESFO consists of seven representatives of trade unions or confederates, representing, at the level of the State that are members of the Economic and Social Council, but are not representatives of employees – 7 representatives of employees participate in some way in the management of SDH; the entire chapter on integrity, which includes the law, and not least the number and method of choice of supervisors. The Supervisory Board shall consist of five members who must or should meet certain conditions, such as working experience, the adequacy of education, non-conviction, non-conformity of functions — including with a function in a political party — in the last 6 months, expertise and competences. All members of the Supervisory Board in the package shall be appointed by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government. It is true that, unfortunately, we have waited too long for these overseers, and it is sad that, although I still hope that no, more than expertise will be the important political definition of new supervisors. This shows up after a ten-hour government meeting where you somehow failed to get 5 supervisors into formula 3+1+1. So it's time for you to find these five supervisors by professional standards. With regard to the Supervisory Board, it is also necessary to highlight proposals that are in law or solutions so that the meetings of the Supervisory Boards, in addition to the Minister of Finance, can be attended by the President of the Commission for the supervision of public finances. While the Minister and the President of the Commission do not have the right to decide at the meetings of the Supervisory Board, they exercise additional democratic control, control of the shareholder and supervision of key stakeholders over the functioning of SDH. Allow me a few more words about the very meaning of the word management. The main focus of the current law is not on the sale of state property but on the management of state property. Management, which means the decision-making, planning, design, guidance, allocation of organisational resources, management and monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of various activities. And it is in this light that the provisions of the law must be interpreted. It is in this light that the control mechanisms already laid down in the law must be understood. And in this light, it is necessary to understand the management strategy, which will be a key document with defined objectives that a particular undertaking must demonstrate. In the Alliance Group, we are convinced that, in addition to the reasons given or presented by the Government and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the purpose of the law, which I have presented in more detail, must also be taken into account. It is true that some of the proposed changes can be packaged well and even easier to sell to the public. But their actual acceptance at best would mean one big nothing. Regrettably, this would mean a departure from the four objectives set out in the introduction. We did not support all the proposed legislation in the Alliance.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u119	The text shall be given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, Mr Franc Laj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u120	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, we have a negative position and we do not support it until the proposed amendments to the SDH Act, which is proposed by the first-signed Members' Group with the first-signed Luke Mesec, because these amendments would interfere with the fundamental concept of legal regulation, which could result in the inoperability of SDH, the loss of independence and the deterioration of conditions for effective corporate governance, which is in fact contrary to the basic purpose of this law. Our definition of the proposed amendments to the Act is justified by the following. The Slovenian State Holding Act was adopted 26. 4. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The substance of the law is the separation of the function of the State as the owner of capital investments from other functions of the State, the concentrated management of investments owned by SDH, KAD and the investments of RS managed by SDH, and the establishment of a transparent investment management system. Given that the European Commission and the OECD have positively identified themselves to the prescribed system of corporate governance, we do not see the need for changes; even more, changing the law at such an important time that the practical system has not yet come to life, but the key processes of its establishment, such as the appointment of a five-member supervisory board and the preparation and adoption of the country's capital investment management strategy, would certainly have a negative impact on the effectiveness of the system itself. It is important that the Supervisory Board is appointed as soon as possible and that the capital investment management strategy of the country, which is a core and somehow strategic document for the operation of SDH, is adopted and that the results of the capital investment management of the country will give expected positive public financial effects instead of unexpected burdens. The proposal to amend the law requires that the National Council on Investments, as defined in the Capital Investment Management Strategy, decide once again before the sale. In our view, the proposed provision of a law that policy would decide once again before the sale is pointless and contrary to the OECD guidelines. The essence of the OECD Guidelines is that SDH is independent and is not bound by the guidance of the State authorities. SDH must act independently and independently. It must therefore decide on the sale of investments in accordance with the adopted strategy on the management of the country's capital investments prepared by the Government and approved by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The SDH therefore does not have the time limits set out above, which is further confirmed by the fact that it has to draw up an annual management and disposal plan with State assets approved by the Government for the purposes of its operation. The sale of investments is decided on the SDH Supervisory Board, where a member of the opposition can also participate in the role of the President of the Commission for the supervision of public finances, which certainly contributes to greater control over the functioning of the whole system. In accordance with the provisions laid down in Chapter 6 of the SDH Act, the Court of Auditors and the KPK shall exercise control, which shall also contribute to strengthening control. It is also important to mention the legal possibility that SDH may leave the decision to the Assembly or to the Government in certain cases. SDH is obliged to report quarterly and annually to the National Assembly and thereby monitor the effectiveness of the operation in the corporate management of the country's capital investments. However, let us not forget, Slovenia can only be successful through entrepreneurship and not economic politics.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u121	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u122	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian Democratic Party has not supported the amendment or addition of the Slovenian State Holding Act by the United Left to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. We didn't support it for a number of reasons. All these proposals and amendments proposed by the United Left are, according to the Slovenian Democratic Party, already included in the Slovenian State Holding Act. However, the problem of both the previous government and, above all, the current Government of Mira Cerar is that the legal obligations are not met. June 2014 was the deadline for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint a five-member Supervisory Board. In July 2014, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had to submit to the National Assembly a proposal for classification of investments and a strategy for the management of state assets. Neither the Supervisory Board nor the classification or strategy for the management of state investments has yet to be seen by the National Assembly. And all these proposals submitted by the United Left should be included in the capital investment management strategy of the Republic of Slovenia and, on the other hand, for the successful control and management of the Slovenian State holding company. A minimum of what could be expected should be provided to the Supervisory Board. To this end, we are also calling on the Government of Mir Cerar and the coalition to finally agree on a five-member Supervisory Council, send the proposal to the National Assembly. To send to the National Assembly a proposal for classification of investments and a strategy for managing capital investments. It's been a while, it's been a few months since your promises, what you're gonna send, what you're not gonna send. We believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that you have a lot of problems dealing with yourself, which is of course not in favour and is in negative management of capital investments as well as other situations in the Republic of Slovenia. We can monitor sales in the way they unfold, in our opinion, the technical leadership of the Slovenian State Holding Group is taking the matter properly, but the problem is that the government is inoperable. Finally, it is worrying that we can then use the media to find out that you were running out of time at the last coalition summit yesterday to focus on the classification and strategy of capital investment management. It is high time that you take your responsibility for this too, and it is also extremely irresponsible that those who have started all these sales procedures now speak against privatisation. Dear coalition, the government of Mira Cerar, I suggest you come to your senses and begin your work at last.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u123	Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, for her Mr Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u124	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! The consideration of the law was concluded on the working body, and we voted against both representatives of the Desus Group. If we have been constantly dealing with the causes of the bank hole so far, there are many times that are inadequate today, sometimes we are recklessly interfering with the area of privatisation. The fact is, the bank recovery caused a lot of damage earlier to just walk away. Similarly, the privatisation of state property is at stake. In both cases, it is a matter of public interest and our future, and it is a very sensitive subject. During our privatisation, we are very determined in the Desus Group: not to sell everything, in haste or immediately and not at any price. It is also necessary to continue the process of selling companies from the so-called package of fifteen companies, and this is also a point of view not at all. It is a matter of assessing what we want to achieve by selling and what will change with the new owner in the light of existing state ownership. A lot of work awaits us in the final preparation of a document, a strategic document called the Capital Investment Management Strategy of the Republic of Slovenia, including the corresponding classification. Once agreed and accepted, we in the Desus Group firmly believe that we must also respect urgently and consistently. Now that every time a mandatory agreement is proposed by the National Council for Higher Investments, even after the adoption of this long-awaited strategy, we literally overtake this document. The strategy is the basis for the operation of the whole SDH, so the law itself loses its meaning by such a provision. In our view, this would only open up a multi-annual debate in Parliament without a concrete effect. It is necessary to follow closely the decisions that will be enshrined in the strategy in which we have all had the opportunity to cooperate. However, the fact is that the strategy itself is a living document, and if the changed circumstances, the essential circumstances, dictate this change, is also made in due consideration, but not again without reason and for the needs of daily policy. The proposers also presented us with some of the security guards that are too rigorous. One such is the expansion of the SDH supervisory board with the possibility of working together in the management of SDH bodies. However, in the Desus Group we support the idea, summarised by the German model, to include workers' representatives in leadership functions. We believe that the representatives of the workers would be very helpful if they were part of the composition of the Supervisory Board, regardless of which body we are talking about. We have also shown the same support in the recent amendment to the Banking Act, and in this way we have tried to resolve the issue in a very sensitive and controversial area, such as the banking sector, but unfortunately we have failed. In the Desus Group we regret the decision that there was not enough will and obedience to extend the SDH Supervisory Board to employees or their representatives who would be subject to the same conditions, I stress the same conditions and the same criteria as the other members of the Supervisory Board. However, with representatives of the government, it was answered that this "inconsistentity" would be adequately corrected by the amendment of the SDH law, which will be in line with the difficult and long-awaited law on the demographic fund, of course, this year. The re-amendment announced by the Government will certainly open up additional questions on which we will be very careful in our Group. Remember, it is a position that when a separate legal person remains separate from SDH and that he fulfils his obligations to the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance and spends $50 million annually for the purposes of coordinating pensions – that is, in the past. This includes articles that will transform Kad into a demographic fund. However, we still insist that 10% of the purchases from the sale of SDH assets, i.e. state property, be transferred to the so-called demographic fund and we will continue to do so until the end. Therefore, because of the foregoing, the Desus Group does not support the proposed amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u125	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u126	Thank you for your word and once again a nice greeting to everyone! In view of the fact that a decision has been taken on the home labour body not to adopt or delete the articles of the law, the legislative procedure of this law is thus terminated. However, I think it is right to point out in this recital that the content of the law was one which gave back the power of the National Assembly to manage the assets of the Republic of Slovenia. And this is something that I also wanted to point out at the previous point, what will surely need to be changed in the future. The fact is that this law refers to the need to obtain additional consent from the National Assembly even after the adoption of a strategy on public investment management for every major sale. That's not what this law says right now. Another major change is to respect the principle of labour co-management and also the principle of limiting income for members of the administration. So, the fact is that Slovenian State Holding is currently being run by people who are very well paid for this, who have no strategy adopted and can decide for themselves what they will do with Slovenian property. Since we are at the time of the sale of Zito, the question really arises, who among us feels satisfied that Holding sold Zito without further asking or at least consulting the National Assembly. I do not think that the majority in the National Assembly are proud of this, but I am sure that some individuals are very happy about this. It is interesting when you monitor television broadcasting and the satisfaction of members of the management holding company; yes, they are satisfied that they are well paid because they are doing this work, those who have participated in the intervention for this sale are satisfied because they have also legally received rich commissions, but 99% of Slovenes and Slovenians, but I am sure that this is not satisfactory, especially the agricultural sector, which will obviously be without its own food processing industry. And if we add that Mercator, Laško, Aerodrome, Photona, Helios, Elan was sold – look from all these companies, anyone who bought them will actually be able to pay this purchase through the revenue generated by these companies. In fact, the new buyer will not invest his own money in this, otherwise he will be in debt, but this debt will be repaid through the revenues of these companies. It is therefore very important to note, however, that in all this process of acceptance of the Slovenian state holding company, the Social Democrats were very serious about the risk of receiving the Slovenian State holding company as an institution that can manage state property. We basically proposed the Capital Investment Management Agency, which managed these companies, and this agency was directly responsible to the National Assembly, was directly responsible to the Court of Auditors and all that is happening today could simply not have happened if the solution we have enacted by the Social Democrats were respected. Furthermore, because we did not have a majority in Parliament, because early elections took place, we were able at least to prevent this from being transferred to the Slovenian State Holding, which was one of the original ideas. All the assets, EUR 12 billion worth of property, wanted to be transferred by one law to the Slovenian State Holding and at that time it was no longer state property, but the property of that company. At that moment, of course, the National Assembly, the Government, all of us, lose any jurisdiction over what happens to 12 billion. Although we have managed to prevent the SDH Act from changing slightly, we were too few to change even better. But it has changed in the way that we still have state property, but the procedures for this property are being carried out today by the Slovenian State Holding. It takes him in a way that we can be concerned about, because he is only being driven to sell it, he makes some money, and then with the future of Slovenia, how we will close the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, how we will provide pensions, because there will be no dividends in the budget, how we will provide jobs and development – this is not what Slovenian State Holding does. If co-management were ensured in this company, this would certainly not happen. Unfortunately this has not happened, so today we are facing such consequences, which are very serious for the future of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u127	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for her by Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u128	National holding companies are privatisation facilities, not management facilities, so, for example, the Austrian state holding company does not manage strategic companies such as state railways, motorways, energy or banks. Serious countries of strategic enterprises do not manage as a mere portfolio of shares. The development of infrastructure, transport, energy, including the financial pillar cannot be planned on the basis of stock indices, in serious countries such as Austria and France, the company is privatised on the basis of law. Slovenia is not a serious country under these criteria. Employees and management of the Slovenian State Holding are by profile stockholders and financiers. In the draft investment management strategy, the Government itself recognises that the management strategy has not compensated for sectoral strategies, but is not or is not useful. Once the investment management strategy is adopted, the government and SDH will be able to carry out billion-dollar privatisation or partial privatisation operations on their own, such as Petrol, Insurance Company Triglav, HSE, Luka Koper. In Insurer Triglav, the state share is 68 %, if reduced to 25 %, the competing insurance company will be able to carry out hostile acquisitions. Don't play with that! In the United Left, we proposed to the Guardian that SDH should obtain the consent of the National Assembly on the basis of a serious analysis to sell shares in the largest companies. In Austria, the guidance for the preparation of such an analysis consists of eight pages and in the Slovenian draft management strategy, such as Petrol, is intended for a page and a half. That's not serious. The additional agreement of the National Assembly is necessary because the strategy sets only minimum shares. It does not specify under what conditions these shares will be reduced. With regard to Slovenian railways, instead of analysing the consequences of privatisation, we find this sentence, quote: "It is not possible to exclude the possibility of entering new partners either into a roof company or into some basic and supporting activities" – the end of the quote. The founders of SDH made sure that their leadership did not have to take into account the will of employees in state-owned enterprises. They were simply banned from appointing representatives of staff in the administration and the SDH supervisory board. In our proposal, we only give them back this right, which, by the way, was also granted to Austrian workers in their state holding company. Economic democracy is one of the five priorities of the government, yet it has not supported our proposal. Contrary to its own commitments, it has extended the ban on co-decision between urban banks, which is likely to extend to insurance companies. The United Left is a counter-systemic party. We are not only for codecision because it increases the productivity of employees, but because we believe that administrations should be accountable to workers and not vice versa. The labour force is not the goods the owner decides instead. Of course, we are also not advocating transparent privatisation, but for democratic and rational governance with state-owned companies. But this proposal is indeed a compromise, a common denominator. According to the last available survey, 65% of Slovenians oppose the privatisation of 15 companies and 72% oppose the privatisation of Telekom. The consent of the National Assembly is an opportunity for the Government to convince citizens that privatisation is beneficial. If he can't convince them to let privatisation go, he can't prevent democratic decision-making. It's the same with codecision. The Centre's parties see in this a complement to corporate governance, in which we see the beginning of the abolition of corporate governance. However, no one can say that it is normal for state-owned companies to sit in the supervisory board of state-owned companies by directors of private companies, but it is not permissible for employees to sit in it. In the State Council, our proposal received 19 votes and 13 votes in favour. According to our assessment, most members do not object to the final decision of the greater privatisations being taken by the National Assembly. Given that the public generally opposes privatisation, the consent of the National Assembly is a minimum, which the Government should also agree on. For the time being, the Government is ready to discuss, in particular, some undefined form of co-decision. In the United Left, we will take the initiative to cooperate, provided that the amendments do not delay until the following year. The question is, what will be left of state-owned enterprises by the next year if the Government makes its own decision? Today we read that they are planning to sell more than 60 companies. The Minister of Infrastructure would build a second track at the expense of the dismemberment and partial privatisation of Luka Koper. Members cannot prevent this even if the strategy states that Luka Koper is a strategic company. That is why we will insist on the consent of the National Assembly at least for the biggest business.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u129	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to four. Period of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a law amending the law on agriculture after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food mags. Tanji Strniša.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u130	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to present the content of the amendment to the Agriculture Act relating to the amendment of Article 181 of the Act, which provides for a transitional period of 7 years, in which the current public service providers of the Agricultural Act are engaged, to be amended until 31 December 2017. The amendments relate to the provision of public services in agriculture, namely the public service of agricultural advice, the professional tasks of agricultural production and the tasks of the genetic bank. The key objective of the amendment was to extend the transitional period and thus ensure the smooth functioning of the existing system of public services in agriculture. The reasons stem from the need for information and assistance to users, i.e. farmers in the implementation of agricultural policy measures. This is particularly important in the current period when new measures to reform the first pillar of the Common Agricultural Policy measures and also to adopt a rural development programme for the period up to 2020 are introduced this year. Since a number of questions were raised in the debate about what would happen to these services during the transitional period, it was not possible to provide for a 7-year transitional period for the appointment of public services on the basis of the new provisions at that time, since it was not possible to foresee that the reform of the common agricultural policy in the 7-year cycles, like the financial perspectives, would result in a one-year delay and a major delay in European rules. Key changes related to the work of existing public services are thus linked to the reform of direct payments and to certain rural development measures that are new and are being implemented for the first time this year, as I have already said. At the same time, the European rules imposed on Member States to continuously provide advice to farmers on the provisions governing cross-compliance and the green component as part of the reform of direct payments. We have already initiated procedures at the Ministry for the appointment of public services in accordance with the Agriculture Act in recent years in order to appoint public services by the end of the transitional period, but once European regulations have been published, the Ministry has decided to postpone these changes for a later period so as not to disturb the implementation of the reform of the common agricultural policy in Slovenia. At the same time, I should like to clarify that, in the context of the new rural development programme for 2014-2020, we have already introduced certain changes in this area with a view to improving the transfer of knowledge into practice and that we already have in the preparation of the first knowledge transfer call for animal welfare measures, agri-environmental climate payments and, in particular, organic farming. The proposed amendments are thus intended to ensure the smooth operation of public services in the field of agriculture with existing operators, while at the same time complementing the system with new knowledge that goes beyond the existing institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u131	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mrs Ivi Dimic, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u132	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food considered the proposal for a law amending the Agriculture Act as a working body at its 7th session, on 8 April 2015. The members of the Committee took note of the proposal for a law and also of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which had no comments on the proposed text of the articles, and of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which supported the proposal of the law. In the debate, the Director of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia presented the position on the proposed law. The Chamber points out that the tasks and funding structure of the country's most important public agricultural advisory service have changed significantly over the past decade. Despite a 35% reduction in resources over the last few years, public infrastructure is still maintained so that everyone involved in farming has the possibility of accessing all relevant information related to agricultural activities. The Director of the Chamber also pointed out that the Chamber is aware that the amended way of financing the public service and liberalisation in this area also entails the need for organisational adjustment and therefore assesses that the extension of the transitional period allows the necessary time to adjust and change its organisation. The majority of the members of the committee supported the law in the debate under the proposed provision of Article 1 of the proposal. However, they pointed out that the public service issue could have been settled by now, as a transitional period had been envisaged for the determination of public service providers. There is a serious question whether the Ministry will be able to resolve this issue within seven years. Following the discussion, several criticisms were expressed regarding the functioning or current organisation of the public agricultural advisory service, which is not considered by some members of the Committee to be able to draw on and target European funding from the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme. In particular, it is pointed out that changes in both European and national farming methods require completely new ways of advising farmers who no longer need basic advice, as they have new forms of knowledge, such as project advice resulting from the Rural Development Programme, which will have to be adapted by the public advisory service. However, the different involvement of the advisory service also requires low self-sustainment in the country — for some products only 30% — and the fact that we have two-thirds of the agricultural land in the areas with the farming factors mentioned above, which further reduces the competitiveness of our agriculture. Changes in the organisation of the public agricultural advisory service are also dictated by the dynamics of growth in organic farming, which is one of the rare perspectives available to Slovenian farmers. Data show that demand for food from controlled organic production is increasing in the European Union about 10% annually, with demand for certified organic food in Slovenia greatly exceeding the supply, which is why we import about 80% of organic food. It is noted that the new European Rural Development Regulation for the period 2014-2020 has played an important role as it has for the first time become a stand-alone measure under the rural development programme, but the knowledge of farmers is essential to increase the volume of market organic production. At the end of the discussion, the Committee voted on both articles of the draft law and adopted them. Amendments to the draft law were not adopted in the second reading at the home labour body. The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food proposes to the National Assembly that the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Agriculture be adopted in the text tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u133	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Simon Zajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u134	Your Honor! The proposed amendment to the Agriculture Act extends the legal transitional period of 7 years to select operators of public agricultural advisory services for a good 2 years until the end of 2017. Despite the fact that the 7-year transitional period was quite long for the possible realization of the choice of operators, we decided in the SMC Group to support the amendment of the law. If the proposed amendment had not been adopted, there would no longer be a legal basis for the implementation of the existing public agricultural advisory services with effect from May this year. This would no longer guarantee the continuity of agricultural advisory services and uninterrupted assistance to users. In particular, in this important period of implementation of the measures of the new agricultural policy, when the reform measures of the first pillar of agricultural policy and the adoption of the rural development programme for 2014-2020 are introduced, which are the basis for the acquisition of new financial resources. It is also a coincidence that agricultural policy reform and the choice of operators and the reorganisation of the establishment of a public service in the field of agricultural advice are coincidental and not feasible at this time. With the extension of the period, we will therefore allow farmers to benefit from the public service of agricultural advice and a smooth transition to a new system of implementation of agricultural policy measures, which is also in accordance with European legislation, under which Slovenia is also obliged to provide the public service of advice to farmers. Here I add that an organisational change has also to wait for the completion of the reform that has been delayed and for the finalisation of the PRP. Various public calls will be launched via the PRP, where it will be possible for consultants outside the public agricultural advisory service. In the area of agricultural advice, in the first place, a call for the implementation of eco-agricultural and agri-environmental courses, safe work in the forest, animal welfare and so on. As has already been said, in the SMC Group we will support the proposal for a bill amending the Agriculture Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u135	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Bojan Podkoršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u136	Dear President, esteemed Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law extends the transitional period of 7 years, which was established under Article 181 of the Agriculture Act for the selection of a public service provider. The transitional period will expire under the applicable law 24. 5. 2015 Therefore, the drafter considers that, in order to provide services and to extend the period of time, up to 31 years should be extended. 12. 2017. During this time, information and assistance should be provided to users in the implementation of the new agricultural policy, as measures of the new agricultural policy programming period 2014-2020 are being introduced. We will support this proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party. However, we are asked why it has not been possible to regulate the extension of the law in seven years, and therefore the question is also raised that this law will be very difficult to regulate in these two years. We are in a period when milk quotas fall, we are in a period that will need to extend all those who apply for subsidies, of course, we extend this law, we fall concessions in the field of forestry next year, so, of course, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we would call on the Minister, the Secretary of State and all those who work at the Ministry to take these issues seriously so that we do not catch this extension over time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u137	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Benedict Kopmajer is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u138	Dear Mr President, the distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, say good-bye! The proposal for a new Law on Agriculture, as already stated by our colleagues, extends the transitional period of seven years, which was laid down in Article 180 of the Law on Agriculture for the selection of the public service provider. During this time, continuous information and assistance should be provided to users in the implementation of the new agricultural policy, as measures of the new programming period, such as the reform of the first pillar of the common agricultural policy measures and the adoption of the 2014-2020 rural development programme, which brings new measures and opportunities for financing for agricultural economies, are currently in place. The largest public service in the field of agriculture is the public service of the agricultural advisory service of the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia. At the competent ministry, it is explained that the existing rural development programme allows certain tasks that have been fully carried out by the public agricultural advisory service to be transferred to rural development. Public calls will enable consultants to enter outside the public agricultural advisory service in the field of agricultural advice. As an example, the area of organic agriculture can be mentioned. In the Desus Group, we believe that any organisational change in the provision of advice at the time of the introduction of the new agricultural policy or the transition to new measures would result in more harm than good. As it appears in practice, the current functioning agricultural advisory system is very good or one of the better advisory systems in Europe and provides access to services for a very wide range of users across Slovenia. For those in need of agricultural advice, eight agricultural-agricultural institutions with 75 permanent and 9 additional exhibitions distributed throughout Slovenia are available. However, let me point out that these exhibits are at some point illogically distributed. As an example, let me mention the area of Prlecia, where there is no such advisory service in Lutomer, for example, which we think is very strange. Discontinuation of the public service offer, which costs the country around €7 million per year, would also mean the abolition of a superstandard which has an extremely positive impact on Slovenian agriculture, as shown by the fact that, despite the rather unfavourable conditions for farming the agricultural area, they are mostly very well and well treated. Slovenia is also obliged, within the framework of European Union rules, to provide advice to farmers on the provisions governing cross-compliance and the green component of farming as part of the reform of direct payments. The users of agri-consulting services are also mostly satisfied with the work of the advisor of public agricultural advisory services, as their assistance also helps them to make good use of European funds and, with appropriate advice, also reduces errors in the implementation of agricultural policy measures. In the Desus Group, however, although we will support the amendment, we ask why the scope of public services has not been regulated during the seven-year transitional period and whether the additional two years will be sufficient to regulate this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u139	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u140	Thank you for your word. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we welcome and, of course, support the proposal for a law amending the Law on Agriculture. The fact is, on 24 May of this year, the possibility of an agricultural advisory service to provide assistance to the agricultural economies to actively engage in the acquisition of European funds for the implementation of agricultural policy measures will expire. Indeed, we are in a very difficult period. This is a new programming period in which a number of new measures are introduced as a result of the reform of the first pillar of the Common Agricultural Policy measures and the adoption of the rural development programme from 2014 to 2020 and, of course, the possibility of obtaining funding for agricultural economies. If we want to be very effective in this extremely important introductory part, which is then also the basis for the absorption of funds in all future years, then it is only right that this transitional period should be extended until the end of 2017 and that we do not change the structure of the agricultural advisory service. However, we hope that this new form will then be as successful as it has been before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u141	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for her Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u142	Thank you for your word. In 2008, a law was passed which provides for, quote, "the establishment or selection of a public advisory service provider in agriculture", the end of the quote. It is now a seven-year transitional period and this provision has not yet been implemented. We have not received a clear reply from the Secretary of State whether the Ministry intends to implement this provision and in what way. I cannot help but say that we have had nearly six years of this same agricultural minister of mags. It's a Jew. Six years is enough to carry out such a project. We are therefore deciding today to extend the transitional period on the Agriculture Act, although we do not know whether we will have to extend the transitional period 2017 again or whether the Minister will finally propose a permanent solution, nor do we have any idea what this will solve. Our agri-consultation service has good and bad qualities. Its scope and continuity of work are certainly a success, but certain blind spots remain that are not adequately covered by the public advisory service of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber. A largely underdeveloped advisory service in the field of organic agriculture is being developed. In general, we cannot be satisfied with the development of organic agriculture in Slovenia. The demand for food from controlled organic production in the EU is rising by about 10% per year. The demand for certified organic food in Slovenia is five times higher than the quantity produced in Slovenia, so today we import about 80% of organic food. This is at least partly due to the situation in the field of advice to organic farmers, so at least it follows from the 2012 Ministry of Agriculture report on the implementation of the Action Plan for the Development of Organic Agriculture in Slovenia, ANEK. The report identifies the inadequate work of the public agricultural advisory service as one of the main reasons why the objectives of this Action Plan have not been met. The report highlights the problem of the lack of qualified advisors for organic agriculture in the public agricultural advisory service. As far as is known, since the adoption of the above-mentioned report on the implementation of ANEK, there has not yet been any change to the work of the public agricultural advisory service in the field of organic agriculture, and we welcome the announcement by the Secretary of State that European funds for organic agricultural advisers not operating under the KGZ will be available this year. However, these are fire-fighting measures. In general, we still need to find that even today, 17 years after the first organic farms in Slovenia have been integrated into the organic farming control system, we do not have an appropriate ecological advisory service. The public agricultural advisory service works mainly within the framework of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber. KGZ is politically and visually limited by the majority of its membership of conventional farmers representing as much as 95% of membership and large farmers, who by nature have the most influence. The practice has shown that, within the framework of the KGZ advisory service, the development and implementation of quality and expertise in organic farming have been neglected. In Slovenia we also have examples of good practice in addition to bad solutions. An excellent domestic case is the award of a concession for an advisory service in beekeeping in 2009. In this area, advice is provided by the Beekeeping Union of Slovenia, as this has led to a high-quality leap in the transfer of knowledge about beekeeping. Thus, the provision of an advisory service for organic farmers and new crops such as cannabis will also be an opportunity to hire new agricultural experts, including more and more unemployed and those who do not find work in the agricultural sector. This time in the United Left we will support the extension of the transitional period because we are in the midst of major changes in the common agricultural policy. The introduction of new solutions at this time would not be good. However, we expect the Ministry and the government to make proposals to improve public service as soon as possible. We expect that the proposal will not wait another six years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u143	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u144	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The key objective of the amendment to the law under consideration is, according to the proposal of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, to extend the transitional period for the selection of public service providers in agriculture by 31 December 2017, thereby ensuring the smooth functioning of the existing system of public services in agriculture, which will have to work effectively to implement the rural development programme and the reform of the common agricultural policy. The proposal also emphasises in its explanations that the maintenance of existing public services will not lead to disruptions in the system of providing advice to farmers. In addition to agricultural policy measures, permanent professional support for public services is important, as it is only in this way that effective use of public funds and public goods management and the development of the sector can be ensured. Christian Democrats point out that there is no reason why the Ministry has failed to bring the agricultural advisory system into line with the provisions of the law for seven years since the adoption of the Agriculture Act in 2008, but we ask ourselves whether it is really necessary to wait until the deadline of the transitional period, so that we can then extend it again. Christian Democrats are advocating a quality public service for agricultural advice. But the way to it is through a good system of funding and organisation. Farmers become dissatisfied with the advisory service, as more and more services have to be paid or paid. This is also due to the fact that less and less budgetary resources are being provided to the Advisory Service to carry out the public service. In this novel law it is only a matter of putting out fires, which we consider inappropriate primarily for the time of economic crisis, when the government team should direct all forces to the rapid and effective solutions to the problems of our population. Despite everything in the New Slovenia Group - the Christian Democrats - we will not oppose the novels. However, we hope that Minister Dejan Židan, who already has a third mandate at this Ministry, will have to re-establish the area systematically before the end of 2017, otherwise we will have to decide on a similar extension. Ceasefire must not become a practice in agriculture, as agriculture needs to be encouraged and, above all, a stable environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u145	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting of the National Assembly. I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made on Friday, 24. 4. 2015, in the context of the votes This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. PERIOD OF THE DAY, IT'S A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENTS TO THE COLLECTIVE ADDITIONAL LEGISLATION PROTECTION FOR PUBLIC SERVICES AFTER A SHORT PROCEDURE The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly [[..]] In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities for Mr Peter Pogačar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u146	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The proposal for amendments to the Law on Collective Additional Pension Insurance for Public Servants was prepared by the Government on the basis of a proposal by the Committee of the Closed Fund for Public Servants. The Basic Law provides the basis for the introduction of collective supplementary pension insurance for public servants and public servants employed in public law, subject to a collective contract for non-economic activities in the Republic of Slovenia. Under this law, which you will discuss and vote on, the collective additional pension insurance for public servants is governed by the rules of the Fund, which are also part of the pension plan and the collective agreement on the establishment of the pension plan. All these acts will have to be brought into line with changes to the law on the basis of amendments to this Act. The proposal for a law, which we have already discussed at the 9th meeting of the Committee, is mainly a technical law. Its amendment is necessary as the basic law before amendments is still referred to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which expired on 1 January 2013. The proposal for amendments to this Act therefore aligns the provisions of the specific law governing insurance for public servants with the new basic law on pension and disability insurance. The provisions of the specific law which directly refer to the ZPIZ-1, which is no longer in force, are amended by means of a proposal for amendments to the law so that they now refer to the law governing supplementary pension insurance, and the law refers to the law governing the income and income tax of legal persons. We believe that this also ensures greater legal transparency. It is very important to point out that, in addition to the amendments to this Act, the possibility of a closed mutual pension fund for public servants, which now implements only an investment policy with a minimum guaranteed return, is also being transformed into a sub-fund of a umbrella pension fund that will implement the investment policy of the life cycle. This option is in line with the provisions of the new pension law, which also makes it possible for private sector pension funds to establish such roof funds. This means that the proposal of this law will also give public servants who save in a closed public servants' fund the opportunity to invest in funds with a more risky investment policy in view of age and then gradually move closer to retirement or withdrawal of funds into funds with a less risky investment policy. The implementation of the investment policy of this fund will continue to be regulated by the general pension law. We propose the consideration and adoption of the law after a reduced procedure, since it is a matter of less difficult amendments and additions to the law, notably to comply with the General Pension and Disability Insurance Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u147	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Uroš Pikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u148	Thank you very much for your words, distinguished president, distinguished secretary of state! As stated by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, at its 9th meeting, the draft law amending the Law on Collective Additional Pension Insurance for Public Servants, submitted by the Government to the Assembly by means of a proposal for a review and adoption of the proposal for this regulation following a reduced procedure, was considered by the Government. Representatives of the proposer, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, participated in the work of the Committee and representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service to Mr Divac and the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Health and Disabled Mags. In the morning. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects and made comments to Articles 4 and 8. The Committee also received the opinion of the Commission, the Council of State, presented at the meeting by mag. The rostrum, and, of course, this committee supports the proposed amendments. No amendments were tabled by qualified applicants within the time limit. The drafter briefly presented the draft law and said that the Government had adopted a proposal for a novel to harmonise the provisions of the Law on Collective Additional Pension Insurance for Public Servants with the provisions of the new Law on Pension and Disability Insurance. The representative of the Legal Service said that, in view of the additional clarifications made by the proposed amendments they had made in their opinion, he considered that the reasons for the amendments were now explained in more detail and would be easier to decide on. In the debate itself, which took place on the first article and, of course, on the following issues, the bill raised several issues. Is the reduced procedure appropriate? Is this really just about technical law? What is the meaning of supplementary pension insurance, which is actually compulsory? Why can public servants be provided with additional pension insurance only within the framework of the Blue Insurance and everyone else can choose? What is the yield compared to that of others? What is the payment plan, and how many insurance companies? A question was also raised as to what insurers could expect from this fund. As Mr Pogačar, Secretary of State, replied to the questions raised, stressing that it is indeed a matter of more technical harmonisation of the law and that the novel is without prejudice to any right of civil servants. It also maintains the fact that public servants can only be additionally insured in the framework of the Blue Insurance Company, but this is not a provision which is essential, of this law, but is therefore based on the annex to the collective agreement. On the basis of the debate, the Committee adopted a decision to forward to the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities: the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons proposes to the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and the same opportunities to provide the Committee with information on the profitability of the closed mutual staff fund for the last 10 years and comparative analyses of the profitability of the Fund with other comparable funds. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all articles of the bill and, of course, adopted them. As amendments have not been adopted to the draft law on the home labour body, the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and the Disabled to the National Assembly proposes that the proposal for a law amending the Law on Collective Additional Pension Insurance for Public Servants be adopted in the proposed text, as you have also received it on your desk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u149	This is followed by a shift in the positions of the members of the groups. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u150	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Law amending the Law on Collective Pension Insurance for Public Servants, which was sent to the procedure by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, justifies the following arguments. That the amendment of that law is necessary in order to comply with the provisions of the new Law on Pension and Disability Insurance of STIZ-2. The provisions of the Law on Collective Additional Pension Insurance for Public Servants, which directly refer to PPIZ-1, are amended by now referring to the law governing supplementary pension insurance, provided that the Law on Collective Additional Pension Insurance for Public Servants refers to tax relief on the basis of supplementary pension insurance, refers to the law governing the income or the law governing the corporate income tax. According to the ZPIZ-2, it is possible for the closed mutual fund for public servants to be transformed into a sub-fund of the umbrella pension fund that will implement the investment policy of the life cycle. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will not oppose the amendment of the law, as we estimate that these changes are necessary, but at the same time we note the long wait for the representatives of the Government to propose this amendment at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u151	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Benedict Kopmajer is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u152	Your Honor! The content of amendments to the Collective Additional Insurance Act for Public Servants is only of a technical nature in one part. In fact, the provisions of the law, which directly refer to PIZ-1, are amended so that it now refers to the general provisions of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, and in the work where the law refers to specific tax reliefs, it refers to the law governing income. The substantive amendment of the law is the introduction of the possibility that, in accordance with applicable pension legislation, public servants can also convert their closed mutual fund into a subsidiary of a covered pension fund, which means the possibility of implementing an investment policy for life insurance. What does this mean for public servants who are necessarily involved in supplementary pension insurance? This proposal, which came from the board of the closed mutual pension fund for public servants, gives public servants the same opportunity as all other non-public sector insurers under general law. The added value under the current arrangement is that public servants will also be able to choose savings schemes in accordance with their own wishes and objectives of saving or managing their investment and thus to nominate investment funds. They will be provided with a whole range of austerity schemes and investment policies, from those that are least risky and guarantee always guaranteed profitability to those where the possibility of greater risks can be overcome more with higher returns. Investment policies of the life cycle will also be adjusted according to the insured’s age, which means that the investment structure itself adapts to the insured’s age and given the time distance to retirement, while adapting these factors to the level of risk or the conservativeness of the investment. In the Desus Group, we agree with the proposal for amendments to the law, so we will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u153	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u154	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues! We have before us the amendment to the Law on Collective Additional Pension Insurance for Public Servants, which we are considering following a reduced procedure, since it is in fact a technical harmonisation of the law, but it does not constitute an interference with the already acquired rights of public servants. In early 2004, the Government adopted a pension plan for public servants under the Collective Additional Pension Insurance Act, under which the employer regularly pays the premiums on a monthly basis and allows all members of the Fund to pay the individual premium under particularly favourable conditions. The basis for the introduction of collective supplementary pension insurance for public servants and public servants employed in public law, subject to the collective agreement for non-economic activities in the Republic of Slovenia, is the Law on collective supplementary pension insurance for public servants, which refers to the provision of ZPIZ-1 in its decisions, which ceased to apply as of 1 January 2013, which requires the harmonisation of the provisions. For this purpose, the Government has prepared a proposal for amendments to the Law on Collective Additional Pension Insurance for Public Servants, whose solutions, in addition to limited harmonisation for the PPIZ-2, allow the closed mutual pension fund for public servants to be transformed into a sub-fund of the umbrella pension fund that will implement the investment policy of the life cycle. The new law thus aligns the provisions of the Law on collective supplementary pension insurance for public servants with the provisions of the ZPIZ-2. Following the adoption of the law, the Law on Collective Additional Pension Insurance for Public Servants will refer to the law governing supplementary pension insurance. However, when it comes to tax relief on the basis of additional pension insurance, it will refer to the law governing the income or to the law governing the corporate income tax. The possibility of reshaping the mutual pension fund is consistent with the provisions of the new Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which also allows pension funds covering the economic sector to be set up on board pension funds with sub-funds, under which different investment policies are guided by the principle of life-cycle funds, meaning that public servants are also given the opportunity to be included in funds with a more risky investment policy in view of age and then gradually move into funds with a less risky investment policy and a minimum guaranteed return fund. In view of the above, we will support the amendment of the Law on Collective Additional Pension Insurance for Public Servants in the proposed text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u155	The word is given by the Group of the United Left for her by Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u156	Thank you for your word. Today's proposal contains only compliance with the new pension law. Among other things, it allows the closure of the public service pension fund to be transformed into a sub-fund of a new umbrella fund to implement the investment policy of the life cycle. Given that the pension law and this proposal have been in line with the social partners, we will not oppose this in the United Left. However, we are concerned that the law or collective insurance of public servants no longer performs their functions. The premiums we are paying from the budget have been severely reduced due to savings. They won't be able to relax by the end of this year either. The return of the fund is questionable. Additional pensions under this heading are too low, workers who will work only for a short period of time in the public sector will not benefit from this insurance. The Blue Insurance Company, which operates a closed public service pension fund, has become one of the suspicious privatisation agents because it is seen in the case of Cinkarna Celje. The Blue Insurance Company runs a consortium of sellers and this consortium absolutely rejects the possibility of including in the sales contract the buyer's obligations to maintain jobs and to rehabilitate polluted soil and groundwater in the Sinkarna area. The Blue Insurance Company is a kind of union institution, but it has no hearing for the 400 workers of Cincarna who work in establishments that are under-performing for the capitalist owner, even though they provide jobs. The collective additional pension insurance is based on a fixed idea that the second pension pillar should be strengthened at the expense of the first and the compulsory insurance loses revenue in the meantime. In 2011, ZPIZ raised 3 billion 451 million and last year only 3 billion 396 million. Of course, the number of pensioners has increased. Instead of going to another pillar that does not work, we should increase the income of the pension fund. There is no doubt that the reserves are in low capital taxation. According to Eurostat's latest figures, Slovenia was the last place on the basis of capital taxes. We hope that the government will undertake tax reforms in such a way as to reintegrate capital revenues into progressive taxation, as was the case before the Bajuk reform. In the long run, a similar system should also be introduced for pension contributions, so that the base will cover all incomes and that the rate will not be fixed but progressive. The Government's plans for collective additional insurance are unclear. The National Reform Programme predicts that short-term austerity measures will become systemic. Whether the premiums will return to the pre-crisis level at all, given what we have public servants and the Slovenian economy of this, this is probably not bad. The National Reform Programme also includes strengthening the role of voluntary supplementary pension insurance among key tasks in 2015 and 2016. Although the collective insurance of public servants is not voluntary, it is part of the same logic of the commercial second pillar. Rather than allowing the Government to increase the income of the pension fund and the budget, it will place a burden on each individual worker. Those who already have low incomes will, of course, not be able to afford additional insurance, and compulsory insurance rights guarantee 300, 400 euros in pensions. This should concern at least the socially targeted parts of the coalition if it has already become somehow normal for the Centre's client to advocate anti-social measures. In the United Left we will support the novel because it is of a technical nature and is coordinated between the social partners. However, we will not support further steps towards commercialisation of pension protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u157	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u158	Your Honor! The proposed novelty shall be coordinated by the Law on Collective Additional Pension Insurance for Public Servants with the new Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, ZPIZ-2, with all provisions directly referring to STIZ-1 being amended by reference to the law governing supplementary pension insurance. In view of the adoption of the ZPIZ-2, the possibility is also introduced to allow, in accordance with applicable legislation under the ZPIZ-2, the conversion of the closed mutual fund for public servants into the umbrella pension fund, which will implement the investment policy of the life cycle. According to the proposaler, this is an important novelty in the current pension legislation, which must also be made available to public servants. This is an important substantive change, which was the trigger of which was the committee of the closed mutual pension fund for public servants. This will also enable public servants as insurers of a closed mutual pension fund, in accordance with the generally applicable rules of the management of the covered pension fund, to save in forms that will be adjusted to the age of the insured after the security of the investment. The Committee sees the advantage of such an investment policy in the automatic implementation of the transitions between subsets, while at the same time making it possible for insurers willing to take on more risks to choose savings schemes based on more risky forms of investment. The Christian Democrats will support the novel.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u159	The word shall be given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, Mrs Janja Slug to her.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u160	Dear President, thank you for your words, colleagues and colleagues! The purpose of the proposal for a law amending the Law on collective supplementary pension insurance for public servants is to comply with the new legislation governing supplementary pension insurance, i.e. with the ZPIZ-2, which has been in force since 1 January 2013. Before touching the amendments to the amendment under consideration today, it is appropriate to state the reasons for the adoption of the Collective Additional Pension Insurance Act for Public Servants in 2003. The aim of the adoption of the law was to ensure the introduction of a collective supplementary pension insurance for public servants, and the reasons were based on the current pension reform, which reduced the percentage of the pension benefit and consequently the rate of the full pension. Since then, a chronologically longer way has begun to develop a pension base that affects its height, and consequently the material and social situation of individuals at the time of retirement has to be improved. Thus, in 2003, the so-called second pension pillar was established, at which time less than 200 000 taxpayers or only 25 % of compulsory pension and disability insurance were included in the voluntary pension scheme. By the end of December 2013, 495 000 insured persons and 60 % of compulsory pension and disability insurance had already been included in voluntary supplementary pension insurance. With the adoption of the law in 2003, Slovenia thus joined the majority of the European Union Member States, which had already established specific pension schemes. The proposed Law on Amendments to the Law on Collective Additional Pension Insurance for Public Servants introduces several substantive solutions that do not affect the rights of insurers and are less difficult. In those solutions, it should be pointed out that the provisions of the current applicable law, which directly refers to STIZ-1, are amended by reference to the law governing supplementary pension insurance. In order to amend the provisions of the current applicable law referring to tax relief on the basis of supplementary pension insurance by referring to the law governing income, since the conditions for the enforcement and the amount of tax benefits for insured persons under supplementary pension insurance are regulated by the Income Act. It also introduces the possibility and legal basis for the conversion of the mutual pension fund for public servants into a sub-fund of the umbrella pension fund, which will implement the investment policy of the life objective and from potential managers of the mutual pension fund management business excludes the capital fund of pension and disability insurance, since under general law the capital company no longer has this option. The proposal for a law amending the Law on Collective Additional Pensions and Disability Insurance for Public Servants makes it possible to implement the law unequivocally in practice, so we will support it in the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-22-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u161	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendment could not be tabled at the assembly meeting. I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made on Friday, 24. 4. 2015 in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the seventh session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
