ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 9th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mrs Ljudmila Novak from 6 p.m. on, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, Mr Ljubo Žnidar, Dr Matej T. Vatovec, Mr Janez Janša, Mr Tomaž Lisec, mag. Matthew Tonin from 4:30 p.m. and Mr. Roberto Battelli. I say hello to everyone who's here! We continue with the termination of the 5th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015 by means of an urgent procedure. We continue the debate on Article 1 and the amendment of the United Left Group. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. No sign-ins. We're gonna check in again. You obviously didn't put any no-shows in there? [[…]] Okay. If not reported [[…]] Luke Moon has the word because he signed himself up earlier. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I would just like to further substantiate our amendment to Article 1 that we tabled yesterday; I would like to quote a few more arguments as to why we believe that this amendment should be adopted. First of all, our amendment would maintain a pension pay-out guard or a pension fund deficit. The law would remain a symbolic commitment that pension protection has priority over the Maastricht criteria, and we think that this is already a very important reason why this amendment should be supported. In this respect, we note that the fuse is not from yesterday, because the same provision was already contained in Section 9 of the Budget Implementation Act 2004 and 2005, so it has not been in the law since 2012, as stated yesterday by the Madam Secretary, but it has been emerging since 2004 and 2005 and is a long-term guardian of pension protection. Thirdly, we argue that the expenditure on pensions, so item 21 in the special part, cannot be sufficiently planned. We are not saying that it is not possible to accurately plan transfers to PPIZ, but we are saying that it is not possible to accurately plan the total revenue under item 21. The second paragraph of Article 12 of the ZIPRS refers to the total expenditure under item 21 for pension protection and not only the transfer of the STIZ, as stated by the Secretary yesterday. The fact is that the difference between the budget plan and the rebalancing under item 21 for 2014 was 337 million and for 2015 100 million euros. The difference between the assessment under item 21 was therefore 26.4% in 2014, and on this basis we conclude that there is a risk that pension funds will be understated. If the fuse we propose remains, the government will be able to issue the treasury bills or bonds without the pump in the extreme case and solve the problem. If this fuse is not available, a new law will be needed, and this will signal the financial markets, speculators and so on, so that they can demand a higher return on Slovenian state bonds and we will be back on the problem of excessive interest rates than we were in 2013. It is therefore necessary to maintain a pension security guard. In short, if the decision made yesterday by the secretary is possible, I turn to my head – you argue that the way in which additional pension funds are received is more democratic if we remove the fuse. Because if the guard stays, then the government can decide if we leave the guard, the National Assembly will decide. Now, if we look at this from the point of view of interest rates and, let's say, some political crisis in Slovenia that could have caused it, it would be better, in fact, from your pragmatic point of view, for the guardian to remain in charge of the government, that if the funds were running out, the government would quietly do so, rather than reopen a large debate on these funds, and that we would risk the emergence of a political crisis and a consequent increase in yield on Slovenian bonds. These are the main reasons why we once again call on the United Left to support this guardian, which we have in law since 2004 and 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u3	The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance mag has the floor. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u4	It is indeed a matter of whether an increase in spending rights in transfers to the pension fund is decided by the National Assembly or by the Government within its powers. If it is possible to increase spending rights by redistributing other free spending rights, the Government may, of course, in accordance with the law itself, decide on the matter. If such an increase was such that such an increase could not be ensured by redistribution, it was the Government’s assessment that it was appropriate for it to be decided by the National Assembly. Expenditure rights in this segment shall be determined so far as is the same as those in the area of public debt servicing that all necessary procedures for the budget rebalancing in this exceptional case can be carried out. In the case of some other increases in spending rights, it is necessary to react much faster, so that a different approach may be possible; but, however, the decision is at the National Assembly, how much you want to be included in these decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u5	Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and putting Article 6 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members to the debate. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. On the day-to-day basis, this is a preliminary proposal for the law on intervention measures for the balancing of public finances by emergency procedure. With regard to this point, 2 bills of law have been tabled in the legislative procedure, namely the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government following a reduced procedure, of which the proposer is a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Janije Möderndorfer, and the draft law on intervention measures to balance the public finances of municipalities by means of an emergency procedure of which the Government is the proposer. The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government decided, in its debate on those proposals, to deal with them in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 117 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. At the same time, he decided that the follow-up procedure in accordance with Article 127 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly would be guided by a proposal for a law submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 117(4) of the Rules of Procedure, I give the floor to the applicants of the two proposals for supplementary explanations. I give the word first to the representative of the government. Mag. Renatti Zatler, State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Government proposes the adoption of the Act on measures to balance the public finances of municipalities, which it adopted at its 30th meeting. 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It is a law falling under the so-called Troika of Laws, together with the Draft Budget Balance and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015. The bill contains measures to balance the public finances of municipalities and is directly or indirectly linked to the savings of municipalities in various areas. Measures implemented through various amendments to the laws have been proposed by representatives of municipalities, ZOS, SOS and ZMOS. Since November last year, government representatives and I have negotiated with representatives of the municipalities on the average for 2015 and at the same time to reduce the costs of their operation. In December, together with representatives of various ministerial departments, we created so-called 3 packages of measures. The first package has already been implemented, the second, still an intervention part of the measures, is before you today, and the third, which interferes with the preparation of systemic solutions, will be prepared by the Government and will have to be implemented by June of this year. On the basis of a decision of the Government adopted by 22. 1. In 2015, the ministries have already been tasked with drawing up action plans with the municipalities to implement systemic measures. So this process has already begun. Therefore, on the basis of months of negotiations, the representatives of the municipalities ZOS and SOS were 29. 1. 2015 Agreement on the amount of the average signed. The average for the first half of 2015 remains EUR 525, as already set for 2015 by the Budget Implementation Act. For the second half of the year, it amounts to EUR 500. At the same time, the agreement obliges the Government to propose the implementation of the second package of measures, the so-called law before you, and this third package of systemic measures. Remember: the proposed amendment to the Budget Implementation Act reduces revenue by 40 million compared to 2014 for municipalities at the annual level. In addition, despite these changes, over 400 million investment funds are still available to municipalities in 2015, even more than in 2014. If I focus on this proposed intervention law ahead of you, it should be noted that the proposed measures proposed by the municipalities have different effects – we know that they differ. Some are targeted at the so-called debirocratisation, others provide the opportunity for direct savings, and others provide an opportunity for additional revenue, such as the introduction of the option for imputation of municipal tax and the introduction of an administrative fee. The effect on the municipalities will be very different in practice, but it depends, in practice, on the extent to which the opportunities offered by the law will be used in practice, from the congregation to the congregation. Proposal for a law modifying the package of laws, namely the Law on the Financing of Communities, the Law on Local Self-Government, the Law on Land Book, the Law on Spatial Planning, the Law on Measures to Eliminate the Consequences of Thirst and so on. The Government is aware of the amendments or amendments to the law, the amendments tabled by the coalition members that have been made to the home committee. The amendments follow the recommendations or findings of the Legislative and Legal Service and are therefore supported by the Government. Finally, I reiterate that the negotiations with the municipalities or representatives of the associations were very constructive, and we had about ten meetings. However, we believe that the interests of 212 municipalities are different in practice. We all understand the bill as the first successful step in solving the problems that municipalities have in practice. Such efforts to address the problem have failed previous governments, but have nevertheless reduced the average level due to the well-known public financial crisis. The government therefore proposes to support the law, honourable Members and Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u7	I give the floor to Mr Jani Möderndorfer, the representative of the proposed draft law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u8	Good day to you all! In view of yesterday's long meeting, of course, we are continuing today. In view of the fact that the title of the law itself and the fact that we are proposing at this point is a point that we are not really proposing, because, in accordance with the Government's Rules of Procedure, the basic law and intent, which was our desire for a parliamentary group, are amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government, which we wanted to change mainly two things; one is the mayor's recall and the other is the way of the mandate. More importantly, the Government, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, could, of course, afford it, because it also legally belongs to it. Given that we are going to talk about everything else today, only about what we have proposed, because it is a hybrid, I will only say this part in this part, that, of course, as soon as the law is passed, the parliamentary group will re table it; the same law, with the same proposals and amendments. Above all, I would like to draw attention here to the following matter, namely, given that there are still other packages of laws dealing with the issue of possibility in particular from the point of view of whether an official who is legally convicted can run, it is right to say that we have agreed, together with the coalition parties, that we will cooperate in this package and try to find all those legal options and, above all, that such laws will also be able to legally comply with both the constitution and the other legislation. Here I look forward to a great deal of cooperation and, above all, to the success of this breakthrough. That is why I will be discussing all the changes or what will actually be the topic today, and this is a change of ten laws, only in the very presentation that follows, and later in the debate itself. However, I am pleased that we will be able to find a common language at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u9	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mrs Erika Deklava.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u10	At its 12th emergency meeting, the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Administration considered two proposals for legislation, namely the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, the simplified procedure, EPA 144-VII, submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first signed Janie Möderndorfer, and the draft Law on Intervention Measures for the Balance of Public Finances of the Communities, the urgent procedure, EPA 324-VII, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. On the basis of Article 117, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee adopted the following decision to consider, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure for the Adoption of Law, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, tabled by the Group of Members and Members, signed by Janie Möderndorfer, and the Proposal for an Law on Intervention Measures for the Balance of Public Finances of the Communities, submitted by the Government to the Assembly. The following conclusions were adopted by the Committee on the basis of Rule 127 of its Rules of Procedure: The amended proposal for a law shall be drawn up on the basis of the Proposal for an Law on Intervention Measures for the Balance of Public Finances of the municipalities submitted to the National Assembly by the Government. The draft law on the basis of which a proposal for a law will be prepared does not include any of the articles in the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government submitted to the National Assembly by the Group of Members and Members with the first signed by Janie Möderndorfer. In the light of the previous conclusions, the Committee held a second reading of the draft law on intervention measures to balance the public finances of the municipalities. Mr Koprivnikar, Minister of Public Administration, said as a representative of the proposer that the proposal was a result of an agreement between the representative associations of municipalities and the Government. It contains measures to balance the public finances of municipalities aimed at saving municipalities in different areas and therefore interferes with several sectoral laws. The representative of the proposal said that the amendments of the coalition groups took great account of the comments of the Legal and Legislative Services and explained the reasons for not respecting certain comments, namely Articles 3, 4, 6, 12 and 14, because they were not intended to follow the objectives of the proposal. The Vice-President of the Municipality of Slovenia, Leo Kremjar, stressed that the associations of municipalities with the Government had reached an agreement acceptable to both parties. An important outcome of the negotiations is also the commitment to the future source of funding for municipalities to the System Office. The President of the Association of Municipalities of Slovenia, Robert Smrdelj, marked the negotiations between the representatives of municipalities and the Government as very intense and useful. The proposed solutions in the bill are compromise and do not fully follow the proposals of the municipalities, but at the same time provide a good basis for further looking for measures towards rationalisation and de-de-barcation of the system. The President of the Commission for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, Jernej Verbič, pointed out that the Commission and the interest group of local interests in the bill do not support it, but they welcome the Government's efforts to find solutions to the burden of municipal budgets. During the discussion, members and members of the coalition parliamentary groups expressed their satisfaction with the agreement reached between the Government and the community associations, which represents a compromise whereby associations agreed to reduce the average, while reducing the costs of municipalities in proportion. The members of the committee from the opposition parliamentary groups pointed out that the proposal for a law was not properly harmonised, as the individual municipalities point out in their written opinions some inappropriate solutions. They also drew attention to the extensive opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which pointed out that in some parts the bill was controversial from a constitutional and legal point of view. In view of the progress of the examination of both draft laws governing the same social relationship and the decisions taken, the Committee adopted, pursuant to Article 128(2) of the Rules of Procedure, the following conclusion: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, submitted to the Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first signed by Janije Möderndorfer, is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u11	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the United Left for her by Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law be considered by emergency procedure in order to avoid the difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the State. This sentence opens the text of the draft law on intervention measures to balance the public finances of the municipalities of ZUJF. From the name of the proposal and the introductory text, it is concluded that these are measures which are interventional, necessary and necessary to balance public finances. Moreover, they should all be in line with the representatives of the municipalities. Those who read the law, and even more so those who were present at the committee meeting, most likely found that none of the above was true. Firstly, since the proposal does not speak at all of the intervention measures, the coalition on the Committee simply changed its name and removed the text of the intervention. Secondly, because the measures are not necessary, more than half of them do not have the government's very desirable austerity effects. Thirdly, without radical systemic changes, the congregation will not work better. Fourthly, because the measures are not at all as much coordinated with the representatives of the municipalities as the Government has vehemently claimed. Similar practices have been shown to be practically the whole mandate under the pretext of the savings ideology, which is proven to be socially, socially and financially harmful, the Government cuts everything on average by emergency and reduced procedures: without reflection, without vision, without public participation. Special practice has also been established under this government, namely that laws contain almost every time the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service has at least as many sides as the text of the bill. This time the opinion is ten pages long, and just as many pages have the text of the law. What is even more worrying is that this opinion almost always shows a similar record: "We warn that the proposed regime is controversial both from a constitutional and a legal point of view." Of course, such warnings do not move the coalition, as the voting machine confirms everything that has been passed on to it, and so it will probably be this time. The proposal, in fact, no longer of such an intervention law, has allowed the government something this time that, in our opinion, has exceeded all limits. On a quiet and urgent basis, of course, under the pretext of urgently needed austerity, she wanted to abolish democratic elections in the fourth local and village communities. That's how we got on the board in a rather ironic situation. At the same meeting, we first discussed a proposal for a law establishing an institution to recall the mayor, an institution with which the people, who still have power under the Constitution, would allow this democratic authority to apply. The government proposal, which we have addressed immediately after, would, as has already been said, have put an end to democratic and direct elections. Of course, in the United Left we have proposed the deletion of the most controversial articles, but the fact that the coalition has listened to our warnings and prevented the destruction of democracy does not mean that it will not ever do so again. We fear that democracy is too expensive for this government. The government has therefore once again gone about solving problems in the wrong way. For a long time, it has been clear to all that it is imperative to stop the sheriffship that is taking place in some congregations, but not to open the door more seriously. In preparing the systemic solutions announced by the Minister, we expect them to go in the opposite direction, in order to strengthen citizens' participation in the management of public affairs and to strengthen the powers of local, village and fourth communities that should exercise that crucial control over the functioning of mayors and municipal councils. The functioning of local self-government should therefore be encouraged in the light of greater democratisation and participation of the people, but not to try to eliminate some of the other possibilities for action that they have at all. In the United Left, we cannot support the bill because the proposed solutions are not necessary, are not interventional and are not harmonised. Everything they are is quick, reckless and ineffective. The government is probably proposing only to create the impression that something is working. In recent times, however, we feel that there are simply no other visions or firm commitment to headless saving. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u13	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jernej Vrtovac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u14	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished president! The proposal for a law on measures to balance the public finances of municipalities is a measure whose main objective is, at least as explained by the Government, the consolidation of the public finances of municipalities and the state budget. Furthermore, according to the Government's explanation, the draft law is the result of an agreement reached between the representative ZOS and SOS municipalities and the Government, which will positively affect municipal budgets totalling EUR 15 million. Let us first point out that by the conclusion of the agreement between the Government and the representative associations of the municipalities, most of the members of these associations, namely, the municipalities and also the municipal municipalities, are either detained or not even supported. They also warn that the financial effects of the law, as assessed by the Government, are excessive. In the opinion of most municipalities, the proposed law will not bring significant savings in municipal budgets to municipalities, in particular to smaller municipalities. Above all, the municipalities are critical to an agreement between the ZOS and the SOS on the one hand and the Government on a reduction in the average level, as we discussed yesterday when we considered the amendment of the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015. In particular, this agreement on the reduction of the average is estimated to have a significant impact on the financial functioning of municipalities. In fact, it will make it impossible for smaller congregations to carry out all the tasks assigned to them by various laws. In New Slovenia - Christian Democrats we find that the proposal for this law brings some measures that will contribute to reducing the expenditure of municipalities. Among these measures, it would highlight the free establishment of services for the construction or maintenance of economic public infrastructure, i.e. roads, plumbing, sewerages and so on, on property owned by the State or municipalities. Furthermore, positive financial effects will also result from the amendment of the Land Book Act, which will allow municipalities to independently submit land-book proposals and independently ensure the conversion of the land-book into electronic form. The proposed law also includes measures to remove administrative and other obstacles to the facilitating operation of municipalities, such as the establishment of a specific qualification of the majority of members of agrarian communities and the establishment of a service right, for the construction of economic infrastructure, and thus the agreement of three quarters of the members of the agrarian community is ensured in terms of their share and no longer the consent of all members of agrarian communities. But in addition to measures that will make the municipalities financially or administratively burdened, the proposal for this law imposes additional burdens on citizens and citizens. And we strongly oppose these measures in New Slovenia. In the course of these measures, it would highlight the imposition of an administrative fee for certificates of intended use of land. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a new tax, which is called a tax in this case. Regardless of what this tax is called, in New Slovenia we strongly oppose it, because we know that new taxes do not contribute to the new economic growth and well-being of citizens and citizens. Despite the Committee's proposed and adopted amendment, we are confident that this measure will burden many property owners, particularly farmers, who are seeking to pool and round up their property and property. In view of the fragmentation of the property in Slovenia, they would be expected to be encouraged to pool land rather than additional barriers. We also oppose taxation or the introduction of the possibility of taxation of property owned by municipalities. This means simply transferring money from the left to the right pocket and unnecessary administrative work for budgetary users, as it brings no added value from a public fiscal point of view. Members of the New Slovenia Group The draft law on measures to balance the public finances of municipalities will therefore not be supported for all these reasons. For if the Government actually wanted to reduce the expenditure of the municipalities, it should also cut the law into education and education. Expenditure from municipal budgets for these purposes shall be the maximum. So in New Slovenia we oppose the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u15	The text is given by the Alliance's Group of Ambassadors, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u16	As far as marriage is concerned, I can only say the following. In fact, we have a problem with the representation of municipalities in Slovenia. If there is a problem on one side of the Slovenian Community as one of the oldest associations and immediately behind it of the Association of Slovenia, there is a problem that the third representative organisation of the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia, which represents more than one third of the total population in Slovenia, is still not a representative organization today. In fact, the government spoke to all three of them, and the agreement was signed with only two. Several times there has been a proposal, I think that at least twice that the same association should be included as representative and, if where, now in the Local Self-Government Act, which also provides for representativeness, the Government's proposal in this law that this matter should be regulated and corrected – but we do not have this proposal. The problem is also that when the Government announces that it has agreed with the representative organisations that everything is agreed on, we come to the committee and find on the committee that everything that the Government has agreed is not agreed on; even more so, the representatives of these interested communities come to a kind of paradox. What they said was agreed upon is written to us individually by the congregations, not agreeing with this proposal, and in short, we come into a kind of chaos that we no longer really know who to believe. Thus, of course, the law itself as such is in some ways difficult to accept. The second problem with this law is that this government has used something that we have used in the past, both in legal circles and not least in parliamentary practice, which is that we change several laws with one law. The only law that violated this several times in the past was ZIPRS, where two to three laws were suddenly amended, followed by the famous ZUJF, which the Janša government proposed to amend more than 40 laws with one swing and had catastrophic consequences that we feel today. And now we're coming up with a new law where we're going to change 11 laws, and it's interventional, and it's really not right. It is not right because many things are changing, which is why those affected by this issue are changing — indeed, without their consent. But it is true that — at the very least — things change in this law that I can say we support. One thing is for sure that there was this famous disorder, that within one congregation we had different legal entities; some parts of the robberies had this and others did not. Even the congregation’s representatives tell themselves, for example, in Goriška, how in reality the five congregations did not have legal personality within one congregation, and one congregation itself had. In fact, this means that in some way the narrower part of the congregation could even be in debt and put into an uneasy position the only legitimate representative of the congregation, that is, the mayor, in the situation that he went to the common debt of the entire congregation and that in some way he was responsible for something that he had never decided. We therefore, of course, support, if not the other part, that this legal entity should simply be removed, or as some kind of anomaly, because it is more than clear that within one municipality there cannot be 6fters, but there can be only one; and that is the legitimate representative and it is known that the mayor with his decision-making authorities. The amendment law itself has made some changes in the process itself, some have been adopted, some have not. By the end of the debate, we will decide whether or not to support the law in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u17	The word is sent by the SMC Group, for her mag. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u18	Mr President, thank you for saying so! Dear colleagues! Therefore, the proposal of the law that we are considering today belongs to a group of three agreed measures among representatives of the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Government. In the first instance, the agreement on the reduction of the average for 2015 and the other two are an agreement on the reduction of costs on the expenditure side of the municipalities, which is intended to balance their budget and ensure the smooth work of the local community. The structure of this proposal is indeed similar to the structure of the 2012 ZUJF. The difference is that it brings positive action to the congregations, so it does not take on the congregations, but gives them a chance to do business more rationally. It is true, however, that these measures should have been taken long ago, because only in the time of the major investment boom would they have significantly greater effects. The bill really interferes with 11 laws and let me just list some of them. Thus, by interfering with the Law on the Financing of the Communities, it will be possible for the municipalities to prescribe a fee for activities involving specific public use of the areas they own. Furthermore, the procedure for allocating additional resources to the state budget for co-financing municipalities and their investments will be simplified. By prejudice to the Law on Spatial Planning and the Law on Administrative Fees, municipalities will be allowed to charge fees for the issue of certificates of intended use. In this case, it is not tax, but it is the payment of the service for the work of public servants. The Committee adopted the proposal of the Community Association not to charge a fee for each parcel, but to allow up to 10 parcels to be considered a single request. Furthermore, there was a proposal to amend the Law on Local Self-Government. Publicly, it was said that we were trying to shut down local or narrow parts and that we were trying to interfere with the very foundations of democracy and the structure of local self-government. It's not about removing the narrower parts. The proposal was to abolish their legal personality, because in the SMC we believe that this is a good measure for various, in particular, administrative reasons which Mr Möderndorfer has already said. The agreement of the Congregations’ Association was also given, and the agreement was later withdrawn. One of the measures is also the possibility of municipalities setting up their municipal or inter-ethnic defences rather than their expensive lawyers. Of course, it is on the part of the congregations whether they will choose to do so. The savings will also be that, in addition to the electronic investments of land-book proposals, they can also invest private documents electronically, thus transforming them and also storing them. And a number of these positive measures, which will have a total financial impact on the budget, amounting to 15 million. It is of particular importance to us that these measures have been agreed upon and coordinated with representative associations of municipalities, but we are aware that 213 municipalities in Slovenia will not always be satisfied with the proposed and all the measures. In Slovenia we have a very well-developed local self-government, one of the foundations of democracy. This allows people to realize their most basic and important needs. No organisation, its structure and the process of action can be static. They must adapt to the actual situation and we all agree that in this respect the actual situation needs to be rationalised and better organised by the functioning of local self-government, which will undoubtedly be done in the next steps, and this law is one of those contributing to a good purpose. Members of the SMC will support the law and we propose that you do so to the other Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u19	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u20	Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! My performance will be a little different than my predecessor, I'm sorry. We cannot support the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, and there are also some good solutions to the law that the bill brings, especially here and there, to the facilitation of the work of municipal administrations, there are so many errors, inconsistencies, bad solutions that all those who wish to the municipalities only good cannot vote in favour of this law. The introduction of the law states that this law is harmonised; it is likely between individual ministers and state secretaries. It is a fact that the Government has sent to Parliament, following a partial agreement with the Association and the Community of Municipalities, a version that is not harmonised with them. It is unacceptable and sad for this government of high ethical and moral values, but it is obviously a constant of this government. The law is also catastrophically poor in substance and nomotechnically written. Six pages of the text of the articles and just so many pages of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which points to constitutionally disputed solutions, to non-systemic solutions, to the consequences of the law on other laws and so on, however, at least one third of the comments of the Government and the Coalition Members have been submitted as a roller. Just as an example, the law introduces the institution of the municipal attorney, but it will be a public official, unlike the public defender, and as a result more employees in municipal administrations, which the government does not want and says will give this work to someone from the existing lawyers in the municipalities – quite simply. Clearly, the complete ignorance of government representatives or the ignorance of local self - government! The worst thing about marriage is a financial bluff. The government says around 15 million euros will be saved – but they cannot tell how they came to these calculations. Perhaps Ljubljana and some major municipalities will charge some fees in advertising; elsewhere, there will be no savings in small municipalities. Moreover, because of the institution of the Ombudsman, the cost for municipalities will be higher, no less. One of the key issues why we will not support the law in the SDS is the abolition of the legal personality of local, fourth or village committees or communities. At the end of the committee's meeting, we asked members of the Slovenian Democratic Party how many officials at the Ministry and how many coalition members had ever acted in local self-government. The government and the coalition have consumed flowers, but unfortunately they have not convinced the local government. The picture will be clear to you after the next local elections, already many mayors had no candidates, and there was not much interest in municipal councils. Similarly, on the Committee we have experienced a bid without any substantive arguments regarding the certificate of intended use of land. The country, the government, wanted to give municipalities an opportunity to charge citizens, our citizens, these certificates, and for each certificate, €22.6. The example of one congregation showed that one claim would cost a thousand 330 euros. And then we kind of talked about how to solve this problem, but it wasn't the right solution. Your Honor, this is a law that is inconsistent with the municipalities, which is substantively catastrophic and does not financially save almost any savings for the congregation. [[sign for the end of the debate]] Together, the lower average and less money for investments, which you will accept with ZIPRO, means either the ignorance of the functioning of local self-government or, even worse, the desire to shut down municipalities and quiet centralisation. We oppose such policies in the SDS. We also received yesterday's letter from the Community and the Association of Congregations that – I will have to say this [[sign for the end of the debate]] Then in the debate. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have prepared two substantive amendments with which we wish to at least partially eliminate the nonsense of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u21	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Benedict Kopmajer is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u22	Your Honor, the President, the Honourable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! As we have already concluded on the Committee and finally confirmed with an amendment to the title of the bill, there is today a talk on measures to balance the public finances of the municipalities. This is not about intervention measures, but about permanent solutions or systemic measures, with which we will look together with the municipalities for ways to reduce the costs of municipalities. Regardless of how we will name the measures, we in the Desus Group believe that local communities must strive for as much financial independence as possible and, above all, financial balance. For the fiscal rule cannot be a commitment that only the state should respect, but the seriousness of control over its revenue and expenditure must also be aware of the local communities. It seems right for us that the municipalities to join in taking on the burden of the financial crisis and to take on responsibility for the debt which has been pointed out for a long time. In the Desus Group, we state that responsibility for the situation must be taken together in this regard. One way is also to implement systemic measures in individual sectoral legislation. The question that needs to be asked is also the question of the allocation of the financial burden at local level. More than once, it has been pointed out whether the financial effects will be properly distributed among the municipalities. In the Desus Group, we are aware that the differences stem from the current organisational structure in which inequalities already exist. Therefore, in the case of the inefficiency of the solutions presented, consideration should also be given to the reorganisation of municipalities as a last resort. However, it seems more reasonable for us to support today's proposals as a milder intervention, in particular because the municipalities have always been present in the negotiation process and in the drafting of the agreement. Each side negotiated with the best of its ability. It is difficult to determine which one of those faced took a larger share of the financial cake or to identify one winner. The most sensitive subject of the negotiations was the average level, which is part of the CAPRS for 2015. The latter will also have the greatest financial impact, the results of the negotiations are now on the table and only our support is needed for the final realization. In the Desus Group, we will not be particularly specific in our position to each individual measure, but we predict that the proposal for a law will fully benefit from our support. At the same time, we note the fact that there have been increasing differences between the state and local budgets for many years. The disproportionateity makes it necessary to know that something needs to be changed. The support of the Desus Group to the draft law will go precisely this way to ensure that disproportionateity in the resolution of financial debts is fairly redistributed between national and local budgets. Let each party be guided by the principle of a good master who can take care of the performance of his own tasks and is careful in the planning of his personal budget. On the other hand, we have to recognise that the country has delegated tasks to municipalities over the years, but for which it has not provided funding resources. It is therefore necessary to undertake comprehensive system-wide reforms in the area of municipal financing with a view to ensuring the autonomy of local communities, which will be designed to meet all the needs of their people. It is right that municipalities should be financed in accordance with the scope of their tasks and the funding provided, without jeopardising the sustainability of public finances. It is even more meaningful, and it is essential for us to see that the resources available must be designed to ensure the smooth functioning of the municipalities, in particular with a view to making public services available to all citizens and citizens. There must be no difference in the promotion of congregations that are friendly to people. The satisfaction of citizens and citizens is therefore the only priority of the Desus Group, which will be followed even when we are already in the process of implementing the already announced system-wide revisions of legislation. Well, we will support the law of Desus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u23	The word shall be given by the Group of Social Democrats. For her, Mrs. Andreja Katič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u24	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Government! After a long and comprehensive debate yesterday on the proposal for a rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015 and the amendment of the Law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015, the debate today will certainly be similar. Because we are dealing with a proposal for a law on measures to balance the public finances of the municipalities on the part of the home working body, and we have touched this area several times before yesterday. We are actually interfering with this bill in 11 applicable laws and, on the other hand, in the budgets of 212 municipalities. However, we know that they are prepared on the basis of many marriage obligations and on the basis of the needs of the people and of the population in the municipalities and in the municipality, they are trying to do so to the fullest extent possible. The bill on the balance of public finances of the municipalities was discussed after long and difficult negotiations with two representative associations – the Community of Slovene Municipalities and the Association of Slovene Municipalities – and with the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia on the one hand and Vlado on the other. On the home working body, both representatives ensured that an agreement was reached and signed, acceptable to both parties. The negotiators also committed themselves to participate in the future systemic regulation of municipal funding because the structure of municipal budgets has changed significantly. Investments are declining and the running costs of municipalities are rising. Despite the agreement reached by the Social Democrats, we assess that the final negotiations are yet to come. After the municipal budgets adopted and after a careful review of the effects of this law, we will in fact be able to assess its value. The agreed average for the first half of 2015 amounts to EUR 525, and for the second half this figure is expected to fall to EUR 500.83. Whether the sustainable amount of the average recorded in the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia will show time. The calculations will also show how high the municipalities will still be able to carry out investment projects, because we believe that most mayors and mayors are trying to benefit citizens and citizens. When we talk about investment and investment cycles, we cannot overlook the fact that many investment projects have been carried out in municipalities since 1994. They contributed to improving the living environment. Many projects have been financed from various European funds and perspectives. First of all, we were entitled to these funds as a candidate country preparing to join the European Community. The investment cycle by drawing on European funds has also continued in the financial perspective 2007-2013. Many municipalities, regardless of their size, have benefited from these funds, which Europe has allocated to the development of specific areas in the Member State. But at this point, it's only right to stop and look ahead. We have a new financial perspective ahead of us 2014-2020. Slovenia has around €3,255 billion in resources during this period. However, the key question is whether the country and the local communities have prepared projects to successfully run the tenders. The state and local communities should aim to successfully acquire these funds, as they will significantly help to alleviate the economic crisis in the country. Although we have said so many times, however, we have seen many European funds only as a B-plan, as a spare drawer from which we can get something here and there. Unfortunately, this is also borne in mind by data from all past years, which deviates from the optimal possible amount of European funds that we could draw, but we do not know, want or manage. Those excuses are over. I hope that today it is clear to all of us that there must still be European funds in the A-Plan if we want economic recovery and a new investment cycle. Your Honor! Today, we are primarily talking about measures related to the financing of municipalities and Social Democrats, and we trust the representatives of local self-government to negotiate and negotiate well with the Government. However, we believe that policy will have to begin to answer the question of what municipalities we want to have in the future, how we will develop local self-government and what will be the focus of this. We're on local government for the most part in these years. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] at the establishment of municipalities, unions. [[…]] We elected 212 mayors and mayors from 62 municipalities in 1993 in the last local elections. So we can no longer close our eyes and let the development of local self-government be left to ourselves and ad hoc solutions. Social Democrats will support the bill, but we expect systemic solutions in agreement with the municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u25	We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Anita Kolesh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u26	Nice greetings, Mr President, and of course all colleagues and colleagues! When I listened to previous debaters, especially those who objected to the congregation’s agreement to this new law, I felt that somehow we were not sitting at the same meeting of the committee. Indeed, at this meeting of the committee, even the representatives themselves, or the two representatives of these congregations, somehow convinced others that they had agreed and that they were extremely pleased with the fact that the ministry had come closer to the congregations and had started to speak to them; and not only to speak to them, to negotiate, and also to agree on something. In fact, they even mentioned that this was the first time that they wanted these negotiations or those talks to continue, because it would only lead to that third phase mentioned by the Ministry and would lead to a final or appropriate agreement. This agreement really means rationalising local administrations, and we must take this issue into account in the light of budgetary rules. We spoke or heard a dilemma about representativeness. Of course, we too are concerned that this may not be appropriate, but the minister simply cannot speak to the mayors of 213 municipalities. That is why this representation is currently such and has led to an agreement that is signed and adheres to. I really do not see why we have so much distrust for the representatives of these congregations. Well, with regard to the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party, I would say something. This Article 5 has already been said what this is all about, states that one claim covers several individual plots of land where they are regulated by the same spatial act. This is what the so-called tax is about, and this so-called tax is actually part of the agreement with the congregations. The agreement was that these parcels could be merged and that a single fee could be charged on the basis of ten of these parcels to be merged. I think that if such an arrangement has been agreed upon in the congregation, there is no reason why we do not respect this arrangement now. I also think it's right, the one with the 10 plots that have, I don't know, so many lands, I really don't see the reason why I wouldn't have those few euros to not pay that fee. But it's not that big of a deal either. That seems like a completely unnecessary amendment to my mind. As for the other amendments, they concern so-called sections of the congregations. I must say that at least in the SMC party and – also some other representatives of the parties – we were very inclined to abolish this right-wing subjectivity of the smaller parts of the municipalities. You probably know what this is all about. It has been said, too, that the congregation maintained an unlimited solidarity of responsibility towards these narrow parts and that there could have been severe abuses that meant that there was a local community, that some local officials might have owed this local community, the village community, the city community; of course, logically, and then the congregation had to rehabilitate these matters. It is clear to me that many mayors wanted to arrange this and that they also put some pressure on the Ministry to take it slowly because it is not going anywhere. On the other hand, many conditions on the ground are such that they work very well, most of the time they are local communities that do not even have this subjectivity, are real current accounts, employees are not, so they can be a very good example in the functioning of these smaller parts of the municipality. However, we were also reminded by the representatives of the congregations at the committee’s own meeting that no agreement had been reached. In view of the fact that it was not concluded, we thought it appropriate for the Ministry to reconsider. We too have come to our senses because sometimes we are called upon to think about something else, and we have agreed to support this other amendment, which is, in a way, preserved by this legal subjectivity of the smaller parts of the congregation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u27	Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u28	Thank you very much, President, for your word. However, look, yesterday we received a letter from the President of the Association of Municipalities, the President of the Community of Municipalities, saying so after the meeting of the committee before today's meeting. I would like to introduce those who have not read this content and those who are looking at us now. Call to object to the disputed and uncoordinated provisions of the Law on Intervention Measures for the Balance of Public Finances of the Communities. "Honorable, Your Honor! The Community of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia find, with indignation, that the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government at its meeting on Monday, 16 February 2015, with the amendment, has already amended the proposed Law on Intervention Measures for the Balance of Public Finances of the municipalities with the representatives of the municipalities. The Community of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia have coordinated the proposals for articles at a number of meetings during the previous month, with which the municipalities are expected to reduce the tasks and costs of operations in the future, against the amendments to Article 19c of the Law on Local Self-Government, Official Gazette No 95/07, officially consolidated text there until 40/12. With the proposed dictatorship, the competent ministry wanted to abolish the legal personality of the smaller parts of the municipalities, which we opposed, as the consequences of the abolition would be very burdensome and for many municipalities financially. Moreover, in the case of the proposed solutions, there is a grave and unacceptable interference with the autonomy of local self-government, which the state should not only protect but also build up and respect. When we began discussions in the last year of the community and the ministry on the necessity of reducing the burdens of municipalities, both bureaucratic and competent, and both of them were to reflect on the lower costs of the municipalities, we repeatedly reminded the representatives of the municipalities that we had had similar discussions with several governments and that agreements between us in the past on the government side had not been respected. We have been told several times that the current Government of the Republic of Slovenia is determined to act differently and that together we are laying the foundations for partnering, building mutual trust, where the word has binding value and weight. Therefore, with amendments, coalitions, the proposal for an intervention measure to balance the public finances of municipalities at a meeting of the committee on Monday can only prove that the words given are not valid at this time. The Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia, will use all possible legal means to protect the autonomy of local self-government, but the question is, of course, how to continue the many common tasks that await us in this and the following years, when one of the partners has already done everything for it at first chance or when he has done everything to implement his will over agreed and coordinated. Trust is extremely difficult to build. But it can easily be demolished by one act. Members and Members are invited not to support the following Articles: Article 8, Article 9, Article 10, Article 11, Article 12, Article 13 and Article 29 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Proposal for an Law on Intervention Measures for the Implementation of Public Finances of Communities which have so grave implications for the autonomy of local self-government. Respectfully, the President of the Association of Municipalities, the President of the Community of Municipalities." Dear colleagues and colleagues, or Mr. Minister! Is this also a unilateral act without taking into account the partnership? I don't think so. Someone was working with a fig in his pocket. Mr Minister, when I read that you are preparing a reform of the public administration, which is supposed to be an example for other European countries, then I wonder what it will be like. Will the likeness of the former Minister Virant in such a similar way – bring everything down, destroy everything? In this way, as ad-hoc adopts some laws and cuts into local self-government, which is the foundation of the rule of law in the European community, I think it is wrong. I am concerned that we urgently need genuine public administration reforms, but at least as far as local self-government is concerned, it will be necessary to have different hearings on such a sensitive subject. Most of the cohesion projects that are now or will be in progress in the coming years are on the shoulders of local communities. The country has few projects to draw on these European funds, even from a new financial perspective. These projects are not just for citizens, they are for citizens, for all of us; for those basic benefits such as plumbing, sewerage, roads, waste management, etc. These congregations need to be treated differently. Whoever knows the work of the presidents of local communities, as volunteers, works for decades free, works hard, reaps success in their fields and works for us, including for the country. That is why we have prepared two substantive amendments in the Slovenian Democratic Party, which is to Article 5, where we want a proposal that has been generous to the State so that municipalities can collect taxes just like that, for each decision, for each plot of land, €22.6 is pointless. Even the predecessor was talking about if someone had so many parcels that they could pay for that cab. We can't just do this, flatfoot! But you know we also have co-owners who are 100 on one plot. Each one must play a role, saying 22 times 100 if they want to handle certain matters. That is why I think that we would mitigate this part, so that we do not impose this great burden on citizens for the good of the municipality, to allow one decision for all land plots to be covered by one spatial act. This is said at the level of one municipality or if a detailed spatial plan is adopted, then it is likely that this detailed spatial plan applies because it says here "with a spatial act". But I'd like to go to Article 8 later.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u29	The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky. Replica, Mrs. Erika Girl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u30	Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u31	No, no. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u32	Don't you?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u33	The replica can't be because you haven't discussed it yet. The only one who can have the replica is the one who's already discussed it. That way, he'll just have the word of Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, chairman. Congratulations on finally starting to use the Rules of Procedure a little more seriously. After a little over six months, for the first time, I am in the non-protocol part of Parliament with a tie. Why? Because I think the topic of local self-government is so important. That's the reason for the tie. I'm listening to these things, and I think it's the same thing as yesterday when we were talking about the budget. Obviously, we have been looking at another document from the Moorish opposition than you from the coalition, and somehow it seems to me that from a coalition, especially in a party that will change the name, but in which the most powerful lobby is legal, you are probably so confident yourself that you are not even reading the legislative matters prepared by our service. We have here ten pages of the law that is drawing, and ten pages of the total tearing up of this proposal. Total rip-off. Citizens and citizens can also read this. As we touch on this debate, there is a European Charter of Local Self-Government, which has already been adopted with us 1. Ten. 1996 and entered into force 20. Ten. 1996. You must have forgotten a little about that. It's not a long charter. The content section has 11 articles. I will read only – because these finances are discussed – Article 9, Financial resources of local authorities, second indent: "The financial resources of local authorities must be in proportion to the tasks laid down in the Constitution and the law." I asked the Minister on the question of Parliament what we will do with local self-government. I agree, of course, with this first part of the answer. Some comments: The local self-government in the Republic of Slovenia needs to consider the guidelines for further development, the Government says it will draw up a local self-government strategy this year, that the approach will be comprehensive, that it will include a number of stakeholders and that the document will be in line with the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which is not a proposal for this law. [[…]] The strategy will address the 4 most important legal components of local self-government – in short, functional, financial, territorial, organisational; it will follow the principle of subsidiarity I have somehow asked the Minister a little in the light of this debate on the average. [[…]] I said, make or give me a table in which on the one hand all the mandatory tasks of the municipalities plus from which laws originate and on the other hand where they are to be financed. I got the answer to look at the congregation’s catalog of competences, and three times I typed this URL correctly — error — I can’t find it! Now I hope I don't want to be offensive, Mr. Minister, but I hope that you have at least this chart, and somehow you're looking at it. I would like to refer to that old ZUJF, this great ZUJF; it seems to me that I have already mentioned this in this Chamber, Constitutional Judge Etelka Korpic Horvat had a nice interview, it seems to me that it was in the whole of our Evening, where it was very critical of the ZUJF, which says that it is by somehow overstepping some legal order, a number of laws and creating even more legal fiction. Of course, as a sociologist, I can ask myself, who does that fit? Or if you want - a metaphor. You know, it's like that, you want to cook a one-cup pan and you open a refrigerator, you probably think about what you're going to do together, you probably don't hit the fridge in the pot and you mix a little bit and you get something out. My colleague Lach, who was the mayor, who also knows this second part, said that this is "here's the law," and I agree here. Colleague Katič said "no more ad hoc solutions". I don't know, obviously the SD has been reading another law, because these are some ad hoc solutions that are now not urgent interventional, and this has somehow withdrawn, which will not – let us stop blinding – bring some crazy financial savings, perhaps in some places, as colleague Lach has already warned, will make the work of the municipal administration a little easier. This matter is also not obvious if I use the term crammed because the letter that was recently read and something else, the Essemians said they were thinking of eliminating the legal personality of these micro, most basic units of the territorial organisation of democracy. [[…]] Look out! And that's what the client who's been jerking me around since the establishment is basically seven, eight months, about the rule of law. I'm sorry, I mean, it's dangerous, you know. That's dangerous. I don't know if you realize what you're saying I have to do in context – Jani, look, this is what I learned from you, don't interrupt me, please! [[…]] Here, of course, the United Left – I am coming to the amendments – supports both SDS amendments – I know that now I will get back on Facebook, that they have cheated us and up or down – because they are good. The first is because we don't limit something to the number of parcels we would have bought together or not, and the second because we can't just overrun some thing we've ratified. Otherwise there is no connection, otherwise let us also stop introducing European directives into Slovenia's legal order. We're going to introduce a little something that doesn't suit us, and somehow we're not going to introduce ourselves. If I translate a word that I haven't copyrighted, sheriffing, in certain congregations. Perhaps it is some intention of this new policy, the leader of which is SMC, to allow this sheriffship to continue by abolishing these entities. The United Left is, of course, for participatoryism, not just for a participatory budget, and somehow it seems to us a grave threat and some misgivings, if I may say so. The Ministry lady talked about some municipal and administrative fees; I mean, let's stop blinding ourselves to some crazy money falling out of this. Even at the level of the municipal municipalities, you know, the untouchable Teflon Mr Jankovic, who also cannot be attacked by the media, is rebalancing the municipality's budget by 20% in early December. Look, the budget of the municipality is stronger than the budget of your ministry without what's on the SVRK. Why? Because he didn't sell some parcels. Let's stop fooling ourselves about this. I'm still waiting, and I'm going to want to explain my written question, I'm still waiting on this table, Mr Minister, to see it, because I don't like talking like that anymore. I hope that what you wrote to me in the first part of your answer is, "I do believe that we will go into some serious thought, what and how with local self-government..." But don't say we're just going to shut down the congregation. You know, even the abolition of congregations is not possible, as some imagine, because there are some legal bonds. In this masquerade of marriage, there may be some basis for good. We don't even attack that kind of, say, municipal defense as an idea of just how this idea was made, it could be discussed somehow. We live in an overly centralised country, and some of these unimaginable laws only somehow strengthen this centralisation. It was said not to talk to 212 mayors. 212 mayors and mayors, and this is not a debate now, whether or not it is possible. There's someone on that desk, and he has to do it. Please think about what you're saying. I'll stop here. We will support these two amendments. Then I'll take a brief call about the amendment proposed by the coalition. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u35	Thank you. The word is given by the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnikar. The replica of Mrs. Anita Kolesh.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. All I want to do is turn to Mr. Duck. I very much appreciate that you dressed so well for such an important marriage, and we wondered why. Nice to meet you. But the more I listened to this discussion of yours, the less I understood what those harmful interventions were within this law for the congregations. All that is in these articles is, in fact, the agreement of the congregations and they were created in this way. In addition, you were talking about some stunt that was supposed to be the result of comments made by our legal service. The amendments covered these matters. That's how we talked on the committee. True, we also did not like this urgency and intervene in several acts, but we agreed that this was the right way. I think that this agreement that the Minister has made with the mayors has also spoken to other mayors, but unfortunately at this point we have two representative communities that have all the support of the mayors, that they have also signed this agreement. One more time. I think it makes no sense for us to argue about the third matter raised by Mr Lach; we too agree. If the congregations are not united and do not agree on whether they want to maintain this subjectivity of the smaller parts of the congregation, we agree. Okay. Although I really don't understand what it would be like for us who are for us to end this, to be more committed to having more sheriffs. It's kind of not clear to me, but it's okay. [[...]] That's all.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u37	First of all, there's no replica. Secondly, it was not a replica, but it was a debate because the replica was admissible when someone misunderstood your debate. But that's not the answer to someone else's discussion. To respond to someone else's debate, it will just be necessary to apply once again for the debate, and given that you have time and that it is the same time for the replica and for everything else, of course it is possible to do so. I'm not gonna let a replica into a replica. Excuse me? No, I said there can't be a replica on the replica, there can't be a replica on what wasn't a replica. So now I will give my final word to Mr. Boris Koprivnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u38	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Members! In this debate, which I am listening to, I am somewhat in doubt about how to respond to it at all, but I will try to be more systematic and put these arrangements and these proposals into a context that they actually represent. First, a brief comment on the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. They were all taken into account, all covered by the amendments, as the colleague said. In fact, we have carefully examined and communicated with them how such a law, which is hostile to many other laws, can be harmonized so that it is legally acceptable. We have also done so in dialogue and that is why proposals are made. But we are constantly listening to the evidence, including to me, once again to the fact that this unloving law, which arbitrarily saves and interferes with various other legal proposals, is a non-systematic rule of some areas, but regulates the areas that local communities want to regulate, which we have thoroughly negotiated, want areas that are long-awaited and can be regulated in this way. But we can say, we will regulate systematically, each with the opening of a special law, once in the future, once a consensus is reached, which means that this will not be settled again. This is a key reason to propose a law which intervenes in several other laws in one place, because it reflects in one place the agreed legislative changes that we have both representatives of local communities, their associations, as representatives of the Government, considered reasonable, meaningful and therefore we hope to write in the proposal and submit it to the National Assembly for adoption. Why now, why the emergency? As with the amendment of the title, the measures are no longer interventional, but they are measures that will apply, thank God, lasting. But we're going to put them into effect before they actually start giving effect. Any measure proposed is because it is now a coalition party or government proposal, if you want to, of course, criticised, but these are measures agreed between the local community, between representatives of local communities and the government, and they have been written in this proposal, which has been transferred to the National Assembly. Another important thing is the legal subjectivity of local communities, which has also been further amended by the National Assembly. Because you need to understand what the agreement with the municipalities was, the basis for a proposal adopted by the Government, but the National Assembly has the right to upgrade this proposal also on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which affected the additional adoption of the amendments. Mr Lah, this letter from the municipalities you have read, we have also taken very seriously, including a colleague from the SMC Group, who said that we have serious concerns about how to respond to such a letter, but the fact is that the legal subjectivity in terms of the abolition of the smaller parts of the community was formed on the parliamentary committee in response to the comment by the Legislative and Legal Service. If this compromises the credibility of the Government in discussions with the municipalities, I am prepared to ask the members of the National Assembly to withdraw the abolition of legal personality with the support of the opposition amendments, but I can only ask the Members nicely. And the representatives of the congregations were negotiated by the Government and not by the National Assembly. That's all I can do in this case. Personally, I am still firmly convinced that the legal subjectivity of the smaller parts of the congregation, the local communities, is not necessary, is meaningless and can be harmful and in no way distorts the autonomy of the local communities. It is only that legal personality means that local communities can operate independently. But for them, a solidarity, a total solidarity is the responsibility of the congregation. Although they can perform themselves in financial traffic, they take on their responsibilities while taking full responsibility for their decisions. In no way interferes with the appointment, management, functioning of the local community, their influential municipal policy and also with the financial resources that are always part of the municipal budget. Legal personality is only about performing, about taking on financial obligations on its own. This is very important. Perhaps I would have responded only and by the way, more than half of Slovene municipalities have already abolished legal personality by amending their statutes. [[…]] The other half of the municipalities or cannot reach a two-thirds majority in order to abolish legal personality by statute. And, to be honest, the abolition of legal personality was one of the initial proposals from the municipal side at the beginning of the talks that they then withdrew; which means that this proposal is not the idea of a government, but respects the opinion of the representatives of local communities that they do not support it. That is why I will also ask that we respond accordingly. But perhaps just to conclude, my response to this — to the negotiation and to the different positions of the various congregations. 212 municipalities, of which between 400 and more than 200 000 are inhabitants, will never take a uniform position on uniform solutions. That's completely understandable. The agreements that are under way with the municipalities are still ongoing and, above all, they will continue and it is difficult to say when the full consensus has been reached. But I think that the greatest success of these agreements that we have opened with the municipalities is that it has opened itself up to an open, lasting, open dialogue with the municipalities and will by no means end with the adoption of this law. Moreover, we have even committed ourselves to how precisely this arrangement with the municipalities will continue to look for new, even more systemic solutions that will make it possible for the municipalities to act more rationally and more effectively. We have actually committed ourselves to this agreement. Perfect coherence will never be achieved and we will never stop negotiating, but it is important that we continue to negotiate. This I think is the fundamental best way to capture this start of negotiations, to establish this cooperation and this constant conflict of different opinions that will lead to better solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u39	As I can see, there is still an interest in the debate, so please apply. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. Mr President, distinguished colleagues, colleagues, distinguished Minister with fellow workers! Let me say that I will support the amendment of colleagues and colleagues of the Slovenian Democratic Party as well as the New Slovenia Group. As is the case with Parliamentary practice that, in the first amendment, we have informal permission to say something about the bill in general, I must say that as a minister himself says it is an unloving law for him, that he must have had a difficult job. But it is true that at times we may interfere too much with local self - government. Perhaps we do not understand what self - government really means. I very much liked my colleagues and colleagues, when Dr. Trček, my respectable colleague, raised the question of the principle of subsidiarity. That's actually the key. This is a key foundation on which local self-government is an elephant. I am not going to spend much time selling about the 1931 Quadragesimo Anna encyclopedia, which, due to the challenges of totalitarian ideologies, has detailed its opinion on individual freedom. By the way, this encyclopedia describes a very important principle of subsidiarity as a Christian democratic philosophy. It follows the principles privately before the state, giving priority to the individual's responsibility before the intervention of the State and also to the small one before the large one when it comes to the functioning of the State. This follows the principle that, to the extent possible, the State should be decentralised and there is also a duty of subsidiarity when a smaller and weaker unit cannot fulfil a certain obligation. Well, as far as decentralisation is concerned, we could certainly talk a lot and, of course, this time in this place, I regret that in 2008 we failed to convince the opposition part of the then national assembly to introduce the provinces into Slovenia; that is, the second level of local self-government. Now, it has been quite a while since then, and we also have a lot of negative experiences, major problems in the implementation of cohesion projects, in the use of European funds and so on. If we were to be able to bring in the provinces, life would be much better today, believe us. When I was preparing for this point, of course, I also went to look at the coalition agreement and I looked at what the coalition agreement actually said about local self-government. In fact, no such very concrete measures are listed as 10 and as 10 is the financial autonomy of local self-government. I'm not going now, brother. Anyone can read it. Of course, I also believe that this unloving law is intended solely for the State budget to simply save some money at the expense of local self-government. Of course it's not good, it's not good! We have had a lot of discussions in the past mandate on the reform of local self-government, in fact today I do not know where this reform is, and I also ask the Minister because it is very important to address these points, and I am interested in what is happening with the working group that is working on the reform of local self-government. After 20 years, we have some experience and certainly some kind of reform makes sense, but I'm sure most people here also agree not to reform in this way, as Dr. Gregor Virant suggested, when he would just draw half of Slovenian municipalities. By the way, Slovenian municipalities are, on average, larger than other Member States of the European Union. Here is also, of course, this letter received from the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia. In fact, there is one smog for all of us, as if by some way or by the Government, we have received a similar letter for the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015, when the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia is surprised by the unspoken article 64. But it went so quickly, and today if you ask the mayors or the municipal council, you will see that no one with these solutions is satisfied. As regards the abolition of legal personality, this is the case with Article 29; that is, legal entities, such as local communities. Here is the question now, if we had, say, a good lawyer or such a strong political unionist as Mr Branimir Strukelj, who would represent the municipalities, perhaps the matter could also fall legally if we compared it with the European Charter of Local Self-Government. It is not self-government if a simple state intervenes in an organisation and legal entity or legal entity at local level. This should be the responsibility of the congregations. We have cases in the congregation from which I come, we have already amended the statutes of the past, and in fact the local communities have just been abolished. There was full agreement, so we have a municipal council and then six village committees for six villages, which are in some way consultative bodies to the municipal council, in which, of course, these village committees also have saints from that village, if they have you, and in some ways it concerns what works well. However, it is not a good solution for the state to conduct in some way what the organisational scheme of local self-government should be. Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u41	Mr Matjaž Han has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u42	Thank you very much. I thought I would be silent at this point, but first of all, there were so many untruths, so many inventions and so much ignorance, and also, interestingly, teaching, how some of us don't know anything, it seems to me that it was very incorrect. That's why I'm going to be very plastic, because I really like to plastically say what's going on here and what was the purpose of the legislator. First, the congregations signed, for my understanding, a very good agreement. Why? They kept the average relative to the amount, which can in some way enable municipalities to have investments, to deal with all the legislation and so on, and, on the other hand, they agreed with the country that in six months for 210 municipalities, the same country would have to conclude an agreement where so many legal obligations would be released that they would be able to lower the average to EUR 500. If he doesn't, there's going to be an average of 525, because the state has to find 23 million. My personal opinion, however, is that because I was the mayor of a small municipality, but I know things, the state will not be able, for my understanding, to find some common measures that will satisfy 210 municipalities, which will be between 300 and 210 000 inhabitants, and this will be very difficult. But if it is, I think the minister needs a medal. That's one thing. The second thing I did when I listened to Mr. Jozet Horvath, he was a little jumpy here and there, I must say, is not to blame the opposition in the provinces, Jože. You know that when we talk about new municipalities, when we talk about the provinces, when we talk about the National Assembly, there was no opposition or position, but there were mayoral lobbies, if you can call it that, I'll say, lobbying from different districts. You know how we came first from six provinces to 12 provinces and so on. In Slovenia it is sort of going this way: something needs to be changed, something needs to be done, but not in my congregation, not in my company, not in me, in you and in your congregation, but something needs to be changed there. That's why nothing changes in this country. On what, if you want, a notorious fraud with regard to legal subjectivity. I believe Miha Kordiš does not know what the local community does, that he does not know exactly what the mayors do in the municipalities, that he does not know exactly what members of local communities do and so on. The fact that he was deceiving from this central hall, that he was deceiving us to break up with this article, I don't know what, he even said, we're shutting down local communities, we're putting an end to democracy, and I don't know what else, it's a lie. With this, we abolish — not money — those small sheriffs in the congregations [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] No, no, no! Now I'm gonna say something. Look what happened. The local communities are very good at laufa if there is a good relationship between them and the mayor. And you don't need any legal entity, but an agreement on what this local community will do, what kind of program it will have and when you agree to it, you put the item and things in the budget – if it's a normal relationship. However, if there is a political fight between the mayor and the president of the local community, it is of course important for the president of the local community that he has his legal personality, that he is his little mayor and some are fighting for it. By costing the congregation significantly more because it is necessary to have one employee because it is necessary to make mandatory final accounts because balance sheets must be made and so on. If the legal entity were to be abolished, the normal local community would remain, everything else would be the same, but one employee would not have to be there, no balance would have to be made because it would be done in the congregation. But it wouldn't be if he was a smart mayor and a smart local community, but no investment would stop. [[…]] But since we respect the agreements with the social partners, and so on, in this case with the municipalities, we will support this amendment. Only this amendment will be supported, unfortunately only because of one five, six mayors who cannot make order in their congregation. And we will also support this so that we do not accidentally jeopardize the good talks and arrangements that we need within six months to find a solution that will be particularly good for citizens and citizens of all 2013 municipalities. So this is a huge deception and a political prestige of individuals in both the SOS and the SOS. One more thing. The mayors couldn't agree with each other either, so we could have only one community to defend us. No! No! We had to have the Municipality of Slovenia because there were more left mayors and then the ZOS made its community because there were more right-wing mayors. Then the mayors thought that they could not talk either because they were small congregations and they made ZMOS. And now we have three communities that are talking and making deals and they can't agree on anything. I mean, you just have to know things a little, you have to be realistic, and you can't count on him hurting you for some kind of performance. But I prefer to give more money to the congregations than to some individuals to meet to make money. When I was mayor, the presidents of the local communities worked the most. [[advertising from the hall]] – it’s okay – the presidents of local communities worked the most, more than any municipal councillor. The presidents of local communities went from house to house to collect signatures so that we could have investments in the city, went to all meetings of municipal councils and therefore did not receive any euro and such a local community worked well. The councillors often attend congregation meetings, open their program or invitation at the congregation meeting itself, and read it a little. So I don't think it's nice that we talk like that, that we can talk about quitting, I don't know the congregation, and so on, if we don't know the matter. But it's nice to hear how you know how you know all this. But it's nice that you're sometimes involved in setting up some kind of telegraph stand, and what kind of roads do they do that make you think a little differently, not just what you read in books. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u43	Mrs. Erika Girl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. I wanted to replicate Mr. Lach earlier. I will now say that I do not know if you followed the debate in the National Assembly closely, but you certainly did not understand the colleague Anita who spoke before you. I really do not know why you read the entire letter of the Congregations’ Association, nor do I know who you have read it to, why you think we have not read it, because Anita, who spoke before you, told you that we have read this letter, that we have discussed it, that we have considered it, and that we will follow the wishes of the congregations, and that we will support your amendment. So the debate on O.K. was a little over. [[…]] Otherwise – yes, the proposal for a law on measures to balance the public finances of municipalities really affects 11 laws, but all measures in the law are, for the first time, coordinated and agreed with the representative associations of municipalities and the Government and definitely affect the average costs for the performance of the mandatory duties of municipalities and the removal of administrative obstacles. All these measures, or most of them, have been proposed by the congregations themselves, and this seems crucial and important to me. But personally, I'm not pretending anyone's satisfied with it. The fact is that the balance of the budget takes financial means to municipalities in the form of a reduction in the average. However, I think it would be far more irresponsible to lower the average and leave the congregations with the same scope of legally binding duties or even increase them. In fact, we now have before us a bill that brings positive changes and these changes will have positive financial effects and will help the municipalities achieve savings in different areas. Of course, this is only the first step and the most important is ahead of us, and this is the adoption of systemic measures in the area of funding for municipalities. My colleague Kordish said that the Government was vehemently insisting that the bill was harmonised. I also wonder whether we were sitting at a meeting of the same committee because the representatives of the congregations said the same thing. Both SOS Vice-President and ZOS President stressed that the associations of municipalities with the Government had reached and signed an agreement. I hope they signed something that was coordinated. Of course, it is clear that this is a compromise; and that is what I think is commendable. The easiest thing to do is to be in opposition and criticise, and it is more difficult to sit down and reach an agreement or compromise than in this case. Suggestions, I believe they are following a common goal, and this is stabilising the functioning of the municipalities. It is true that we Members have also received written opinions from individual municipalities that disagree with and draw attention to some in their view to inadequate solutions, but, as we have already heard, clearly, the financial effects in all municipalities will not be the same, because there are also very large differences between municipalities. It is necessary to start somewhere, as local self-government needs to be rationalised and better organised, and last but not least in municipal administrations, the number of employees has increased by 4.2% since 2008. As I said at the outset, I would particularly like to conclude today that the proposal is harmonised, that it is agreed and that the proposed measures foresee a reduction in the costs of municipalities, which was the goal. How high these savings will be, and we will be able to check in time and now I find it very irresponsible to say that they will not be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u45	Mrs Andreja Katič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u46	Thank you. I am sorry that I have very little time left, but first of all, the congregation’s tasks have increased significantly throughout this time and financial resources have not been provided, even though they should. Therefore, the number of employees in municipal administrations also increased. Since 1998, I have been the director of the municipal administration, I have participated in almost all the negotiations with the Government on the opposite coast as Mr Lavtar and many times I do not agree, and I also now believe that this law is just a milder thirst for what the municipalities need and the final negotiations are just coming. In Slovenia we have three different types of municipalities: municipalities, municipalities in special areas and other municipalities. Unfortunately, the law did not go this way to provide them with a variety of funding, but we throw everything into the same basket. It will be expected of the Minister, but I believe that this would be a job for one entire minister, that he would look at it and that together we would decide what kind of congregations we want, what tasks they actually perform or should perform and how much money they need for these tasks. And that is what awaits us, and only then will the congregations be content to see where they are and where their place is in this strategy for the development of local self - government. As far as the situation of the city’s municipalities is concerned, the Constitutional Court has repeatedly insisted that the law must regulate the special status of the city’s municipalities, and unfortunately we have not followed it, so that too is the case. As for local communities and city districts, I agree with what colleague Han said before me. In Velenje we have sixteen local communities, which are independent legal persons, three urban districts, which are not doing the same thing, only the presidents of the local community, who are independent legal persons, have a little more work with financial papers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u47	Mr. Franz Ly has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u48	Dear President, thank you for the floor, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, colleague and colleague! Much has already been said about the financing of the public finances of the municipalities – but what is essential? Surely this, I can also tell you from the practice itself, that a number of congregations have already found that they do not have sufficient resources to provide quality coverage for all delegated tasks. Therefore, as well as this law, they have been forced or adapted to the current financial situation and certain services are organised in the form of bodies of the Joint Municipal Administrations, which currently exist in Slovenia, there are eighty such bodies and they have started to be established in 2005. This is certainly a positive practice because in many areas it works very well. Why? Because some congregations, especially small congregations, were extremely fed, but because of available sources of funding, they could not afford to be strengthened and, therefore, decided to join in this form of integration. Given that the present law does not provide a comprehensive system-wide solution, it is objectively clear that this rapid action makes it impossible or very difficult to expect them to prepare themselves in this short time. But it brings, as I have already said, in a number of areas positive things that have already been established in practice, and in particular that the other municipalities, which have not yet adapted to the new situation, will in some way also be committed to adapt. I will also support the law because it offers opportunities and opportunities to obtain additional funding for investments, and this is particularly true for those municipalities that are somehow developmentally displaced, which is said to be a rare population, a border municipality and so on. By saying that this marriage brings only bad things, I think it brings a few positive things. Also – I will use this to mention the legal subjectivity. Many congregations have already arranged this because they have seen that it can function more rationally and even increase its efficiency and investment ability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u49	Thank you. I give my word to Mrs. Janji Sluga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. I would say that, of course, everyone would want more money in all areas. But if there was enough of it everywhere, then the budget would not be needed at all, and then I would not be taking these measures here today. Why this marriage is necessary — because it was agreed with the congregations, the negotiations, we heard, they were long - term, tiring, and should have happened long ago. I welcome the efforts of this government, which, if we follow up a little bit, in all areas is really working on this and is working to reach out to the social partners and to establish some communication and some agreement, and I am very happy about that. As all my predecessors have already found, the congregations are many, they are completely different, never, ever — according to the old Slovenian custom — some measures will not be liked by everyone and never will be able to agree and unify. This proposal, on the one hand, represents some countermeasure, some balance that the municipalities need to lower the average. The state budget is no longer subject to the level it has been set so far. If you could just list some facts, some actual situation. The Law on Community Financing was adopted before 2008, that is to say, a year ago, when the income generated by the crisis began to decline. This effect was immediate on the state budget and the municipal budgets were not, since the average takes into account data for 2 years ago, so at least a 2-year delay occurs. If we also look at the State Budget Index and the Community Budget Index, we can find that the State Budget Index between 2008 and 2014 is minus 9, that is 91%, while it is the Community Budget Index plus 8, that is 108%. I also think that the number of employees in the same period, from 2008 to 2014, increased the number of employees in municipal administrations by 195, by 4,2 %. Of course, I am aware that the municipalities are in very different situations; as has been said, some do not yet have any problems, they are still employed, others are faced with delays in payments every day and the inability to pay bills. But in my congregation, if I look at it, I can count very quickly at this point a few things that I would like to have been done yet, and perhaps this will not be possible now, because the situation in the country is as it is. This proposal offers the municipalities a set of measures that the congregations can take advantage of, thereby helping themselves, and somehow, as I have already said, this gives us a counterweight to this reduction in the average. With regard to the amendment to Article 5, however, I would say only what has already been said, but somehow I feel that it has also been heard. Thus, on a proposal from the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia, on their proposal, one request – one request for a plot of land within the cadastral municipality can be made for a maximum of 10 individual properties. So that's what the congregations themselves suggested. The Government has not proposed and in this case their proposal has been taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u52	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. I very much agree with your debate. Here in Parliament, I think there are at least four former directors of municipal administrations. I would suggest to the minister that he include them in the team and some other former mayor, and I think that the legislation will be much more agreeable than if only government officials prepare it. This letter that came yesterday — why did I read it? Obviously, if that's not right or are you lying to the two presidents who wrote this or what? This is following a meeting of the committee which adopted these amendments and these articles and subsequently came after a meeting of the committee. If you don't think it's right and I read that those presidents of the local communities who are watching today know what was written. [[…]] Maybe they just cremated with ashes, these associations, to those congregations that weren't exactly represented in the agreements, maybe that too. I am pleased, however, that these two amendments also support coalition parties. What was said — why this marriage? There is no money, and the congregations need to be given less so that you do not suffer so much and so much, but we will allow you to save, you will not have so much expense. If I only look at this amendment to Article 5. The government wanted to give some tools to ensure that the municipalities could obtain a certain amount of income by charging abnormally high fees for these certificates to our citizens and citizens. It was said that the congregations would gain so much. Yeah, but they're gonna charge the citizens, which is not right and it's not fair! Simply put your concerns to a lower level and let the congregations then find one another! Then we bought it on the committee itself, what's right is if it's too much for every partial number, but let's put it on 10 together and put it on the cadastral congregation, I don't know what else. We had a few bruises there, and in the end, we came to a conclusion. Perhaps it would be even more right for the cathedral congregation than for the UN. I'm glad at least some of you support it. As far as Article 8 is concerned. Even now, congregations and mayors — and believe me, those who have been elected more than once are not stupid — are good masters and we can prove that the congregations have done enormously with the money they had in the past 20 years. Much more than the state! Let them decide for themselves whether a local community will have an account or not; let them decide for themselves. One city municipality, which has 20 local communities, 20 local holidays, donors, co-investments, and I do not know how many services, needs to be collected. Why don't they leave the accounts to the president of the local community to have their money, and it'll be easier to collect those field service so that the plumbing can be built, sewerage and roads. It's a matter of individuals. One has such a practice that it works better and the other has a different practice. That's the thing. Now we're gonna make some mayors happy. That's how I see it. We're not gonna make a profit here. I don't know who did the math. Have you calculated how much we will gain here or will the congregations gain? I think they will lose more if certain projects are not carried out; fewer people will get healthy drinking water or some road will not be built. We now have a major problem regarding the intervention of municipal roads categorised as private land; complaints that the courts have just recognised the owners of roads, owners of buildings, not only land under the facility. Apparently, it was also a case that one Dars would even have to pay a portion of the highway because he was going after a parcel that had not been previously obtained on behalf of the state. Like the Butals. And big problems are now faced by the congregations because they say that the owners of the lawsuits are waiting in line. It is likely that on the ground, the presidents of the local community or members of the council of local communities will easily reach those owners and talk wisely if we do not already have the legislation so regulated, which in itself would mean that the value of the land under the facility is the value of the actual use, whether it was a meadow or a forest, but not the value of the facility, which is now occurring in practice. And let's leave what works well and works well for those who manage it better than the government. I have no doubt that the Minister does not have the best intentions and wants to make the best of things that are very messy, but, Mr Minister, in a way like those first steps, it will not be the best. Local self-government, like my colleague Trček, has already read the European Charter or the provisions of the European Charter of Local Self-Government, is a very sensitive topic. And the European Charter and our Constitution say that the State must provide funds for the tasks entrusted to the municipalities. The president also said that. Since 2008, as you say 4%, 4.2% have been more employed, and the task is likely to be 10% more employees, for whom the municipality has neither provided funds. I'm glad you'll support, I hope, both of you. At this time of six months, Mr. Secretary, you will find the real savings in the congregations. I think there is the most work and the most advantage in removing administrative obstacles or bureaucratic ones, because I am sure that municipalities are doing at least 30% of their barren work. If all those who do the barren work were to do the useful work, and there was much to do, there would also be much more to be done. Certain reports must be sent three times to the country and they will call back when you send them. That's what ex-directors can say, what it looks like. I wish you a happy hand in this, but I hope that you will guarantee the 23 million if you fail to succeed, and indeed, at the end of the year, they will give it to the congregations if they do not save that much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u53	Thank you. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Madam President. As colleague Lah put it very plastically, we are talking about local self-government here. Self-government. There are, of course, different ways in which municipalities organise. If we went to see this lowest division now, we would see that in some municipalities there are local communities, city quarters, lice more jurisdiction, in others less. Unfortunately, my colleague Han left, and I could tell him that I had also dug a ditch for a plumber in my life — and for what else? What have we been digging? For the installation of a television transmitter on the Firefly, that I even in the woods with my grandmother to tear up some bony bone, then we get it, I'll say in a beautiful Slovenian telegraph stand that we set up the phone and so on. That's how I know this practical aspect very well. I am also very clear on what legal subjectivity means. I don't know how you're doing other parties, in the United Left, our experts are working for their money, and sometimes maybe we're spending too much time on some laws that aren't the most important, and that's what we're looking at in the light of, of course, the participatory budget. After all, there is also some sharing of responsibility. Of course, this is where my colleague Han cut his hair, and he said, but now you're going to get so many little sheriffs, and he went to ask the secretary or the know-how many of these subjects would be 800, and he said that this would be insanely expensive. See Article 10, Local authorities’ right to merge: "Local authorities shall have the right to participate in the exercise of their powers and, within the framework of the law, to form a consortium with other local authorities to carry out tasks of common importance." But then, I don't know, ten congregations together have one bureaucrat who's finally going to do the balance sheets, and it's going to come cheaper if I'm very banal. It disturbs us in this law and in related laws, the very approach that is not good for the legal order in Slovenia, which I have said on several occasions. I also have a feeling the minister somehow understands the area and wants to move something. Now he's on to me as an MP – look, I'm not gonna do forensics who made deals with a fig in my pocket. The Ministry of Resort states that you have made up your mind, that we receive a letter of this kind yesterday, and it seems to me that we should finally begin to realize that we are living in the 21st century, where we think differently and also act and expect some unity of the congregations, that you will all be on one shimmy scale – that will be no more! As a result, the work of the executive branch will become increasingly difficult, and we will probably find it increasingly difficult to find people who will be willing to work at it. It seems to me that the legal subjectivity of these minimum territorial levels of organisation of social activity is also important because we share responsibility in some municipalities as well. If there had been more of this awareness, perhaps even some congregation would not have had it. You might even have fewer congregations, because the congregations were often established, you know, you had the place A and the place B. The place A was the center of the congregation, the place B was a little neglected, it felt neglected, and it was the legal basis for some such establishment. We can now be very bent here that half of the congregations have not even provided those minimum criteria, but these congregations have made some kind of infrastructure breakthrough in 20 years, which is fine. But it's up to us to open this subject after 20 years, of course, to think about it, to stop talking about the landscapes, but let's get serious about it. I hope that we will have a discussion with a number of stakeholders in June with a really good proposal for a local self-government strategy, which will result from talking about self-government, not what we will impose on the municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u56	No wonder voters and voters, Slovenians and Slovenes, say that so much nonsense and madness can only be in this national assembly. During this one hour, I listened to about legal personality from the electoral appeal to individual municipalities and to do their homework to some of the explanations on how to leave local self-government to self-governance and so on. But what's most disturbing is that most people agree to legal subjectivity, the kind that it can't be, but O.K., because of the five mayors, you're going to support the stupid SDS amendment. I don't understand that! Excuse me! I don't understand that. We've been on the board for four and a half hours and it's been, I'll say, a consistent debate where we've come up with some conclusions, why the thing came up and why it has to be supported and why not. Now I don't know; I don't know what happened at night – magic spell, sure, other people, fertig, we'll back up, we won't go anymore. Look, that's not how it goes! Now I'm going in line. I've got enough time to explain. It's about as if you have a family, because you know that family card, the Pika card, so I won't be doing the name and advertising. One is in the name and surname – the one who will pay for it at the end – and the other is the family card below, where daughters and sons drag and drift through the POS terminals and drag and spend as much as they can. But at the end of the day, there's only one wage: Dad or Mom. In this case, the local community is the one who will always pay for all the nonsense that a part of the congregation does with a legal entity that went to the credit and took for a road, some plumbing, and I don't know what else and doesn't even have that kind of money. Do you know who has legal personality? The one who gets the money! This moment depends only on the municipal council at local level whether it decides to give money, whether or not it has legal personality or does not have it. He may always decide that he has it — with an account in the account of the congregation in which it is located, or if he is called the village community, the local community, or the fourth community. Whatever. The difference is that in no case can it happen if there is no legal entity to be in charge of the mayor, who is ultimately the head and responsible in the congregation, and will bear all the consequences of this nonsense and madness that is happening in the larger part. And you know it! Only because of 5, 6 mayors, because of this, or I'll say, political parties that suit them, but it literally suits them to remain legal subjectivity, because they don't like the mayor, they're going to kill the stakes back in there and they're going to work their way. Let's move on. What is legal subjectivity anyway? It's not that I'm going to explain and teach you. Far from it! But since you know this very well, you know something, that if you want to be legal and independent and not interfere with local government, you have to have your resources first. The local communities do not yet have 100 % of their resources, but they are ultimately supported by the upper mother and are co-financed by the state on average. As long as it is, the state has the right to say where things stop. Can a narrower part of the fourth congregation go bankrupt? He can't. He can't go to any bankruptcy. Can the congregation go? Legally, yes. Of course you can go, but that's why the state has reached out to some mechanisms. Why didn't you call back then when the state said that the congregation should no longer be in charge of more than 20%? Because she saw that some congregations were also crazy and owed 100% of their own income. But then you didn't say anything about it being an intervention into local government. Why didn't you mention it then? And by the way, how much knowledge does anyone have about what is and what is not in local self-government? For six years I have been a mayor, in charge of – you will not believe it, Mr Lah – for the fourth communities. And they had no legal subjectivity; but the loud murmured an hour and all referred to them, to their decisions. And they're heard if they want to be. So this – this is nonsense! Today you have, excuse me, Minister, the majority here in the National Assembly. Convince them, as in the budget, that they do not accept such nonsense, and you will do a lot of good for 90% of the congregations, not just for no one. Because the congregations have this problem, and it is nonsense that we simply distinguish it. Yeah, we'll never get back together. Of course, we will never be united! Well, that's normal, because we're a healthy society. But one has to decide because we can't talk from here to here forever, whether it's right or wrong, whether we're before the elections or not, or whether we're responding to the third, the fourth. Please, this signature, I guarantee that if I go now to ask all the mayors, the majority of them that such an amendment is not accepted, but because of 5, 6 mayors it is pressure because the Community of Municipalities is increasingly afraid that there will be fewer members and then they must send such letters. I guess we're not so stupid and naive that I don't know how these letters come about. As soon as one interest does not suit, let us send and then, of course, Members rise up and read such letters as we will all shake now. New Members and Members of Parliament, get used to what kind of thing you have to take responsibility for. If you said yesterday that you took responsibility for the rebalancing, take responsibility for this decision as well. And that's the only thing right! Minister, I support you here. It's high time we made order here. If you fail with this maneuver, how will you succeed only with the other manoeuvres, because then there will be no more one letter, then there will be a hundred letters. You really need to do a C-section here once on these things. Who is elected directly – the mayor; who decides and bears responsibility – the mayor. So the mayor should be responsible for everything, not some local sheriffs, these little ones who are not even elected directly in the elections in terms of function as leaders of the fourth community, village communities, but are only elected as fourth saints or village saints or whatever. And that's the way it is. And who's finally going to court? The mayor! There's no other way. The mayor! [[advertising from the hall]] You'll come to your senses when you answer, and by then you'll be at peace. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u57	[[advertising from the hall]] I'm asking for peace in the hall! Mr. Bell Lah, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u58	First of all, I will say that Mr Jani Möderndorfer was a member of the Municipality of Ljubljana for six years. The mayor can be any saint. Most of these, however, will never be the mayor and will never have full responsibility. I would like to ask how many self-contributions the Municipality of Ljubljana had at the time he was a mayor. Nothing! The congregation gave everything to the congregation, and the country gave it to the congregation. In the large, small municipalities that have – my congregation has an adequate spending of a million 800 and a budget of 5 million. What difference does it make? The difference in citizens' contributions, their own contributions from their personal incomes, in order to have built municipal infrastructure; for sewerage, for plumbing, for the telephone we built – we built everything with our own resources. And we're gonna have to! 30% of Slovenians do not have healthy drinking water. Maybe Ljubljana? If they don't have it in Ljubljana, then it's a disgrace to Ljubljana! As much as Ljubljana has its own resources above the proper consumption, how much revenue it receives with taxes, parking fees, with everything, then it is a shame for those who managed the municipality! Many municipalities, there on the edge, still have no water supply, are building water lines with means for roads, because we have such a financing formula for roads that were built 30, 40 years ago with local self-contributions, and it is not for flapping holes. And do not compare Ljubljana there one Upper Kungoto or Mirno Pec. What we built in Mirna Peca with the money we received from the municipality at the time, I claim that five times more than Ljubljana per capita. Five times as many, I'll bet as much as he wants! And not here to insult all those mayors, all the presidents of local communities who for twenty years build, walk from man to man, collect servants and money. For six years, I picked up myself with a house-to-house block. How much did you do in Ljubljana? Don't push it now. Let the mayors deal with themselves and the councillors who are trusted, who are the local communities, who will have their own account, and who will work with it. Otherwise, if the president of the local community says that the municipal council has budgeted so much money for us, that is our money determined by the municipal decree. If we collect so much and so much ourselves, we'll pull this investment and we'll run it ourselves. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u59	Please, if you'll finish. It wasn't a replica, you didn't tell me who misunderstood you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u60	He got it all wrong, yeah, and there's gonna be a lot more.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u61	Okay. Thank you. Procedural Mr. Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u62	My friend Lah, I don't know what I misunderstood. He was talking all the other nonsense that had nothing to do with what I was discussing. Given that it has been counting since time, I would ask you, I suggest that you do this immediately at the outset, without waiting three minutes for him to say everything he doesn't have to say. For the future. But then I'll report to the debate later to explain what you're telling me.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u63	Thank you. I give the floor to the Minister of Public Administration, Mr. Boris Koprivnikar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u64	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Nevertheless, I think it is appropriate to clarify a few more facts, as well as our views in view of this rather gruesome debate, which I have to say that I like very much because it is substantive. Let's be specific. Legal subjectivity. About half of the congregations had already abolished it because they evidently felt that it was either disturbing or unnecessary. Let's see what the difference is. If the local community or the local community does not have legal personality, it may be a direct user of the municipal budget. In the case of the municipal budget, it has its own sub-account, has its own financial plan annually. It cannot manage public contracts on its own even if it has legal personality; it cannot have employees, even if it has legal personality; therefore, there is no difference in any way. If it has legal personality, it cannot adopt its own statute, appoint a supervisory committee, have no own financial resources and have them at its disposal. He may continue to be president, even if he does not have legal personality, of the Council of Lower Work empowered to represent the congregation in the implementation of the smaller parts of the congregation — he is said to be easily empowered — and also the smaller part of the municipality can continue to manage the property of this local or fourth community. So, I am discussing this in order to determine whether this proposal actually interferes with the autonomy of action, self-government representation, the possibility of exercising the interests of citizens in a narrower work. I do not see any reservations here, the question is just how it is at its disposal and taking on commitments. Perhaps with regard to ensuring that the state has the task of providing municipalities with operations. The State ensures to the municipalities that, by its regulation, about a billion 100 years for their current operation. And in recent years from the last financial perspective, municipalities with a specific programme specifically dedicated to local communities have been allocated an additional 1.4 billion for direct investment and, in fact, a huge amount of infrastructure has been built in the municipalities. As regards actual savings, Mr Lah, when you mention that we should deal with specific issues relating to faster procedures and the elimination of administrative barriers. Exactly this is the subject of this law, and at several points we are touching on it, and we are actually introducing these simplifications of procedures and reducing the burden of municipalities. Once again, according to representativeness, as has been seen on several occasions. We have three associations of congregations, two legally represented, and the third is not legally representative, but all three associations have cooperated equally in all talks, all positions have been equally taken into account, and of course only associations that actually have a recognised representation have signed the agreement. Perhaps even for these fundamental questions, which are being reopened when we want to make minor improvements. The local self-government strategy has started its course, so it is just ahead of that – I think the documents are going to go to public hearing next week – but once again: this will not be a strategy of local self-government for which, say, the Ministry of Public Administration would draw up a proposal for a text and put it into public debate for a few days, but we have prepared a proposal for open issues on which we want the views of stakeholders; also representatives of local self-government, sent groups and all others, and then we will write some guidance into a document that will also be addressed publicly again. So we are not projecting views on these key systemic issues, but we are asking the target audience what these views really are. In all this debate that I am listening to, I am constantly, not only this time when we are talking about local self-government, but also in some other areas, two key conclusions, such a very general one, are emerging. One key conclusion that we all agree with is that we urgently need changes, improvements, corrections to the system. We all agree with that. And the second key conclusion is that any change we propose must be rejected. In this way, no change will take place. We have proposed some concrete changes, they are not brilliant, but they are going in the right direction and they are agreed. I therefore propose that we support these changes and actually ensure that, in some small part, the conditions for the operations of local communities improve, but they do not deteriorate in any way.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u65	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. He has a word, Mr. Primož Hainz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u66	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Colleagues and colleagues! Of course, I must say that this debate is in some way global, because local self-government is one of the major problems of our social regulation. Of course, I must say that if you were reading an interview with Vesno Vuk-Year, which has collected some historical – she wrote a book of course on this subject – facts, some have warned about this before, and she as an anthropologist, in which she notes that Slovenian social principle is the principle of collectivism. This is of course a very important thing when you build local self-government, because self-government is in that positive sense not only – because some say that self-government was in the past an invention and it is not. It is that self-governance was inherent to Slovenian life centuries ago, before we said it was Slovenian life. This is simply because the darkness is heavy and we must be careful about it in this way. However, as far as a specific law is concerned, I must say that it has been quite obvious from this debate that the whole law is disputed, if I make it a little easier, only at the point of the question of legal personality. Legal subjectivity is a matter of having the financial resources at its disposal, which, of course, is also in some way now explained. This issue of subjectivity is not linked to the European Charter on Local Self-Government. The European Charter of Local Self-Government clearly states the principle of subsidiarity; but this principle of subsidiarity only means that if a higher degree or a higher degree of power is to be lower – read the State to the municipality or the municipality of the Fourth Community – it must also give the funds to do so. It is. We cannot refer to the European Charter of Local Self-Government in this law. Because the fourth community or the village community, whatever the lowest part of it is called, sometimes it settles a matter if it gets money for it. And it doesn't matter whether he's a legal entity or not a legal entity. As far as these rates are concerned, the fourth community, the local community, the village community, then, of course, the congregation, then the province we have in the constitution, we have failed to establish it, and the state. As a rule, the fourth community is hard to tolerate, of course, the mayor has problems with the fourth communities who would like to do more, more sidewalks, more of those little things that are, of course, in the fourth community. Then of course it's the province. Why don't we have a province? It's very simple because the mayors don't want the country, because then we should submit to someone regardless of and of course, he doesn't want the state, because he won't give the authority and he won't give the funds. [[…]] And this cregarilla is so close. [[…]] If I make this more concrete, it is not a new matter or it is completely nothing new, already in socialism it has been so – that I can comfort you back because some of you are significantly younger. In fact, why can't Ptuj and Maribor unite into one province? Very simple – who will be the first? And there are constant problems. It's something that's completely old and it's, like, forever, I can say -- at least as far as I'm concerned, I've been studying these things for forty years. However, as far as eternity is concerned, I must say that when I look at Mr Roman Loveter, who has been doing this for thirty or fifty years, he deals entirely with the same questions – in my opinion, I do not know if we are today, but, however, it is only for information. As for the facts, how many municipalities we have and what municipalities we have, Mrs Katič, Madam Vice-President, allow. What you said was true, but it's not enough. We have municipalities that are in accordance with the basic law, and we have municipalities that are not in conformity with the basic law — that is, five thousand people as a restriction — and we have one municipality that is given from God or read: Constitutional Court. This is the classification we're in right now. In other words, when we read the Court of Auditors reports, they are very different. We have the Great Pole, which you all praise, rightly praise, because it is successful in obtaining funds, international funds and so on. However, we also have some congregations that are working terribly poorly with this money that they receive from the State or, well, from taxpayers. Ljubljana is, of course, somewhere difficult to say, Ljubljana has a bit of a problem. [[…]] In fact, we have Ljubljana or the mayor, who has perfectly arranged some parts, let's say the center, so that everyone envys us, some at the edge are a little less satisfied with this, but of course we also have Stožice. In short, it is not said Right in Ljubljana that is really a question, and it is because of Ljubljana that we would need a law on municipal municipalities, but there would be a question whether it makes no sense that Fužine is special, with its legal personality, unit or not. [[…]] And here's the question. In short, it's not like that. [[...]] Good thing I won't be too long at this point, I think this solution for these needs that we have today, and given the Minister's announced debate on local self-government in the global, I think this solution today is completely. [[Incomprehensible]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u67	Thank you. The word is wanted by the minister. Mr. Boris Koprivnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u68	I'm sorry I'm unsystematic, but I forgot to say two things, so I think it's right to make them clear. One answer is about the tables you wanted, I have them right here in front of me, they're posted on the website, so they're accessible. Maybe there was a technical problem. On the other hand, my second point of view on legal subjectivity is that I gave my personal opinion. The legal subjectivity of the smaller parts of local communities in no way diminishes their role in deciding on the participation of citizens. That's my point of view, and that's why I'm advocating that legal subjectivity be abolished as such. Another point of view is the letter or position of representatives of the municipalities, which Mr Möderndorfer commented, which clearly opposes this abolition. I would point out that the abolition of legal personality was not the subject of an agreement with the representatives of the municipalities. It was a solution that was created on the home working body in response to the concerns of the Government's Law Service. I do not want the representatives of the municipalities to consider this position as non-credulity of the Government in further discussions that we intend to pursue very seriously, so I would like to stress that legal personality or their abolition has not been the subject of the conclusion of agreements with the municipalities, but it has been created in the parliamentary procedure, I personally support it, but I do not want it interpreted as non-credulity by further talking with representatives of local communities, which we will need very much and which we are going to take very seriously and intend to continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u69	Thank you. If I understand correctly, do you want Mr. Möderndorfer as a proponent? [[…]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u70	It's funny to hear that I'm a proposalant, but you ran me over, but I'm still a proponent. That's how I get my five minutes. Today we have also heard that, as a fellow Member has said, if I was only a member of the parish, then he went to Ljubljana and he was talking nonsense and nonsense. By the way, we're not gonna be talking too much nonsense and simplifying. The municipality of Ljubljana, because you just mentioned it, is, however funny it sounds, also an agricultural municipality. You will not believe the 8th largest agricultural municipality in the country! And there's still a few houses where there's no plumbing, but they have separate wells and stuff like that. They don't have all the roads paved. However, it is one of the rare municipalities in the country where the country used to take it as it did; except for what is according to the status of the capital. Last but not least, Ljubljanans living in the Ljubljana City Municipality have to give up many jobs and things that are truly the property of all citizens because of state affairs. Not so easy, and so on. The city’s municipalities certainly have some advantages that other rural congregations, which are not urban, do not have, but also apply vice versa. There is more air pollution in the city than in other congregations, and they are therefore less involved in things that are more problematic for such large, cramped cities. What's more important is that when you mention the city council, I suggest you walk in the history of the city of Ljubljana and the reality before you leave the nonsense here in the National Assembly. But really literal nonsense, because I can easily see that as a former mayor you have no idea how the Ljubljana Municipality works. But since we're talking about legal subjectivity, I have to say that of course this is what the problem is? [[…]] No, no, no. I didn't think so. What's more important to me today is that it's an opportunity for us to remove something that is self-involved. That is why I mentioned that the fourth communities, for example in Ljubljana, where there were never legal entities, functioned normally. They had everything they had, and what you mentioned most – if they want to raise the money themselves, so-called self-contribution, even though we don't have it anymore, and in fact with a very clear purpose at the expense of the Municipality of Ljubljana, they will get it on their own, and they will also decide about it and they will be able to spend it. This is not an excuse to say that this is impossible, of course it is possible. That's why it's right to know what we're talking about. Today, however, it is an extraordinary opportunity, and most were willing to support it. Finally, if you do not terminate it today, you will sell it more expensive than I know the negotiations with the Community of Municipalities in Slovenia and the other two associations, and you will pay dearly, dearly, dearly. Now you can get rid of it, and in one month no one in Slovenia will know what legal entities are for the fourth or later parts of the municipalities. Trust me, they'll have other problems and deal with them.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u71	Please, if we are patient in our deliberations and do not use words that do not belong here. Dr. Runczek, did you want procedural? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u72	Usually I get a reminder when I say something like that -- I don't have a problem with that. I would like to see that the Slovenian Parliament is more like the South Korean Parliament, well, we don't really need to demolish it, but have the same vats for everyone, no matter how many kilometres someone in Parliament has, who doesn't. I mean, the president of the National Assembly finally started this today, and I hope you'll continue with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Madam President. I have warned several times that those who hold meetings have the same criteria as all those who debate in the National Assembly. I do not think that some of the debates that have been held today are respectful of fellow Members. Yesterday, you favoured, or virtually gave, the President of the National Assembly public warnings to Members who, even after my performance, did not deserve this, but today's harsh debates, including contempt and disrespect, are neither warned nor interrupted in such debates. In particular, they should be vigilant when discussing those who have proposed to Members to adopt an ethical code and there is one important item, is respectability. I suggest you, Madam President, that those who have proposed this ethical code be instructed to read it again and try to understand it. To try to understand what they have proposed to the members of the National Assembly for adoption. I think that this desecration of an ex-jubljan sub-martial who has to the mayor of one other congregation is actually inappropriate and unworthy. Ljubljana is not everything, but we could also arrange those pastures in the middle of the town where Plečnik is a stadium, and another agricultural area could be cultivated and made urban, as it once was, and the heritage could be arranged in a decent way. So I suggest to you and to the other Presidents of the National Assembly that you do not separate a member from members of the coalition and the opposition, and that you have the same criteria at the same points, especially in the meetings of the National Assembly, without once being subject to one strict criterion, and on the other hand, even though you are wearing glasses, you miss out on many things and do not warn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u75	Thank you. I suggest we all stick to this, including you. I am adjourning the debate on procedural issues and I propose that we move forward with the substantive debate. As motioner Jani Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u76	You know you can't stop me, but it's too bad I wanted to do something else. Look, there are strange nicknames coming from that side quite often in terms of the kind of labelling of Members and Members. Comrade Tanko well started the sentence and then rephrased it in the middle of the sentence: the desecration of the mayor of the Ljubljana Municipality, which he has to Mr. Laho, and then he turned. Yeah, the first half was fine, the second half was so back. Mr Lah, if you felt threatened or attacked, look, I apologize to you today, even though I don't know what's hurting you. I just told you that you have no idea about the things you are talking about, as far as the Municipality of Ljubljana is concerned, and you have simplified them – consciously or unconsciously, but I don't know. But if you've been hurt, I'm sorry. But you didn't pick up. That's true. Others had to say that. But you know, I never get this apology back from that side, and that's the key problem with what we're talking about today.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u77	Thank you. We continue the debate. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. In the introduction, only that we who come from the periphery to Ljubljana know much more about Ljubljana Municipality than Ljubljanans about other municipalities, because we are here practically every day, feel all the problems the city has just like the citizens have about parking, about transport, about tips, about inaccessibility, about all other matters. So much for an explanation. I myself know more about the Municipality of Ljubljana than any Ljubljana sub-district about Mirna Peca or the Municipality of Ribnica. Now, in this debate, I would like to draw attention to one thing that seems to me to be incorrect, but it concerns the ministry or the proposal of the one who proposed the law. In fact, the financial implications assessment – Mr Minister, I would like to ask for your attention – it is stated that this bill for municipalities has a positive effect of €15 million. When we read the positive effects of those ten or eleven laws that are written, the estimated values may indeed be so great. Unfortunately, however, this assessment lacks an introduction, there is a lack of impact assessment of the reduced average, which will be around €40 to €60 million, and so many fewer municipalities will get to carry out their tasks, and a smaller impact assessment of the work the country has been committed to co-financing. This law, Mr Minister, has no positive effects of 15 million, but has 50 million more negative effects. The balance of this law for the performance of the tasks you will reduce is negative. It seems to me that the drafting of a law with such an explanation is unfair and inappropriate. In addition, you will take away some €30 to 40 million from the municipalities for the purpose of promoting investment or co-financing investments. This will make a difference in the congregations. There can be no positive effect if the municipalities lose their money. What you are proposing, these editorial corrections on how local self-government will take place or local self-government will be carried out at the lower level, are in fact a bountiful matter not suitable for regulating such a law. This is a matter of municipal decree, after all, how the congregation will regulate these matters in the Statute and then continue to implement them. Today, this is all that matters. But what has to do with the key change is nothing. And that the minister writes that this law has only positive effects for the municipalities, it is incorrect in this part because they are not only positive, but that negative part is about three to four times greater than the positive effect. Unfortunately, a number of things will remain a problem, a major problem will be in the long term, because this law is not a one-year but is multi-annual, has lasting consequences, will also have lasting consequences for local investment and will have lasting consequences for European funds. This is the final effect of this law. I think that to propose something in a way that is not properly and correctly explained is not properly explained, and not to say what the long-term consequences of these incorrect explanations will be after that, I find it inappropriate; the level of government is inappropriate. This is not a parliamentary law or anything where it is difficult to assess any things, but data on the reduction of the average, but on the reduction of the effects on co-financing exist. But they're not written in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u79	Thank you. Do you want procedural or something? No, no, no. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnikar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u80	Thank you. I think, Mr Tanko, that you have already answered the question in part, which I would like to explain myself. This law has positive effects, but it is related to other laws and we have never cheated or said anything like that that is compensation for that reduction in the funding of municipalities coming from other laws. This was also the basic purpose and basic purpose of the talks with the municipalities: how can we achieve reduced consumption of municipalities in such a way as to reduce the burden of municipalities by certain measures that this law actually brings. I would like to point out once again that we have agreed with the representatives of the municipalities on three levels of action. The first, smaller new one, which was regulated on the basis of some rules and amendments, simplification, was implemented even before an agreement was even concluded. The second set of measures is the one passed by the law before you and the third set of measures, which will be even more systematic than the other, which will be the result of the agreements that we are still continuing. We have also committed the six ministries within the scope of the Government's decision to set up group leaders who will discuss with representatives of the municipalities the continuation of systemic measures that could not be implemented in such a short time and will also result in interference with the legislation when it is, of course, ready. As far as co-financing of investments is concerned, co-financing was not suspended as agreed this year, but reduced by 1 per cent by another percentage. It means that 2 per cent of co-financing opened for 2016, and this measure has also been compensated by the possibility of municipalities to facilitate, faster and more indebtedness in the case of co-financing of European projects. That was the deal, and it's written down. However, as far as European funds are concerned, we all have to accept in some way the fact that there was such a high investment dynamic as a result of the specially reserved European funds of the old financial perspective was about a billion 400, only for the needs of local communities, that such investment dynamics would not continue in the future financial perspective. The future financial perspective does not separate resources for local self-government and other European funds, but opens up common tenders for projects, so we expect that this dynamic will not be as intense as it has been so far. Once again, if you look only at basic figures to achieve this in one year between 600 million and 700 million investments at a billion 100 current costs for the operation of municipalities, this is such an intensive investment activity that no such investment dynamic can be sustained in any, even intensive sector. This somehow explains why this law has a positive balance, in combination with other laws, the balance is still negative. But we also expect local communities to share the burden that this country has borne for several years and will reduce their own consumption. If I make a comparison, very concretely, in the state administration, the number of employees has decreased by 4 000 since 2008, from 35,000 to 31 000, the state budget has fallen by almost 10%, while in the same period in local communities the number of employees has increased by 3.4% and actual consumption has increased by 8%. This means that, virtually in comparable percentages, the amounts were moving in the opposite direction. These are facts, and on the basis of these facts we also expect that, as the country itself has been forced into rationalisation, some of this negative effect has also been compensated by its internal adjustments, in which we want to participate and seek common solutions to make these adjustments easier.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u81	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. Just an explanation. Mr Minister, municipal budgets have grown solely because they have increased and improved the use of European funds, not because of the functioning of the State and the generosity of the State, which has allocated more resources to them. If the municipalities were unable to draw on investment and co-financing from European budgets, these resources would not be available. The effects of European funds on local budgets, even at the same nominal, have a significantly higher index or percentage than on the state budget. I think it's inappropriate to explain that these things have grown in this way because it doesn't last.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u83	I now give the floor first to Minister Koprivnikar, and then Mr Möderndorfer, as a motioner, is also present. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u84	I am explaining now that I am learning these debates, and I think I have been misunderstood. We are talking separately about the funds invested in investments, and we are talking separately about the funds used for the current functioning of the municipalities. For the current functioning of municipalities, around 1.1 billion are allocated annually and investments are not included in this data. These percentages do not relate to investments, as if investment funds were taken into account in the total consumption of municipalities, then they would not increase by 9%, but by 50%, which is a significantly different number.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u85	Thank you. As proposalr, Mr Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u86	Thank you very much. One of the Members made it very clear that the State had given nothing to the municipalities. That's not true! In 2007, the Janševa government adopted the Law on the Financing of Communities, where it changed the way funding was financed. She took it to the three congregations to distribute it in proportion, so that all the other congregations would receive more money. Then we warned that this would only work for one to two years, and then it just started to fall. That's the result, of course, mate, on your side.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u87	Thank you. The word has Dr. Dragan Matić, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u88	Have a word with me, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Otherwise I didn't mean to come forward today, but when I saw all this drama and all this tension, I went to look again at what was actually on the agenda and I saw the draft law on intervention measures to balance the public finances of the municipalities. This is in sharp contrast to everything that has been said here; the United Left has been described as an attack on democracy, the destruction of the basic postulates of local self-government, by the SDS, it has been said that this law is already meaningless because it will have no special effects or will have more harmful effects. In short, I was very surprised at all these performances, because, if I may say so, I am not some authority, some former municipal official, like Mrs Lah or Mr Möderndorfer, but still, let me remind you. I was at a meeting of the Committee on the Interior and there were also two representatives of the associations of the municipalities, Mr Kremjar and Mr Smrdelj, and these two said – you can also look at the magnetogram – that they would express a special recognition to this government for a patient relationship, for a discussion, for an analysis of all the problems on the table and for a common search for solutions, which this law has actually brought. Indeed, it has already been heard in the debate, in particular by the SDS, that these envisaged measures will not produce results, but it has also been explained by the two representatives of the associations of municipalities that these measures are different in terms of specificity, given the size of the municipalities, that they bring very large savings again. But in a global way, when we draw the line that these negotiated measures together are very positive. Also, where, for example, it was obvious that they deviated too much from interests, such as the reduction of the average, it was clearly explained that they had been very well negotiated that there was a protector, that if measures were not taken, then of course the State would have to repay that difference to the municipalities. This is said to have been very clearly explained that the agreement here was agreed that the results incorporated into the law were good. Of course, if there are some letters from the congregations that do not agree, there is no surprise that we have 210 congregations, and there will always be someone who will have some specific comments on the already negotiated and good solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u89	Thank you. Then you can sign up for the debate. I give my word to Mr Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u90	Thank you very much. I would like to identify myself until some amendments have been tabled in the procedure itself. One is certainly the one that we have discussed on the Committee – you know that I have discussed mainly in the direction that it is crazy to limit to ten if there could be more, and I have also proposed a solution to how this amendment would be corrected. Of course, I did not expect this second extreme, which is now proposed by the amendment, which means as much as you want, from here to eternity, to disability. So this amendment, as far as land-book applications are concerned, is simply not to be supported, because in fact this can then be a cost, especially when it comes to seriously large investors, where they will want to invest so much and so much. However, I think it is very important to propose the establishment of municipal and inter-ethnic defences, which I also welcome in the form it is. I think this is finally one step forward for the benefit of the congregations. The issues surrounding this functionary or not, I think, are not really that important, the more important is the result of why this is being introduced or what we want to achieve with this. That seems very important to me. Let me finish with what I basically started, and we'll vote at four o'clock this afternoon. I suggest you take a break in the meantime to seriously consider it, because you have a really nice chance to take this step. Last but not least, there is no need to be subject to this question, especially since there were two representatives on this committee and there was not nearly this Rompomoma, as some now hang on this letter. Above all, do something to the end, just as it is proper. You'll only be a minister once, if you're lucky twice, but you won't because you're not crazy.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u91	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Please sign up. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u92	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the amendments before us can in some way improve this law, which, in fact, is loving, bad and takes much away from the congregations and takes more from them than it gives them. To be very specific and not only in principle, I can say this from practice, specifically from our Kamnik municipality, because in today's debate it seems as though, as much as the municipalities will lose in principals, they will now be able to get back through this intervention law and forget to add a comma – yes if they are additionally burdened by their citizens, which is probably not in the interest of any municipal council or any mayor. In some ways, the state is now forcing the mayors and the council of the municipality to impose additional burdens on their citizens, which is wrong. I said I would talk about numbers; Kamnik Municipality will lose about 30 000 people, we will lose about half a million euros in principal, through these measures that are being offered to us, and we will gain 50,000 euros. So the difference is 1:10. If this is a fair measure, and if this is a good measure, let each of you answer. It is a fact, however, that municipalities are another rare institution where investments are still being driven, as they continue to decrease because of their work regional differences and in some ways raise the standard for all our citizens. Consider if it is appropriate to insist on such matters.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u93	Thank you. Mr Primož Hainz has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u94	Madam Vice President, thank you very much. Of course, I didn't get a word before because I felt hurt, if I may say so, from Mr Tank, who spoke of the Ljubljanaians, he didn't call me personally – I hope he went to lunch to listen down there. That is to say, for 67 years I have been a Ljubljanan, but I have been a Ljubljanan for 40 years or almost 40 years in some of the services where I have always been tied to the ground and I have always or have been building churches – of course not in a material sense – whether I have been involved in local self-government, etc. In short, I was extremely large and I know Slovenia from Lendava to Portorož, I would say our musician. So I don't know if it's true that Mr Tanko knows Slovenia as well as I do, say, I know Fish or Ljubljana. I don't think his comment was correct. In addition, we said, in my opinion, that we are not connected to local environments, but we have broader responsibilities, so that the comment on the Ljubljana people was not very polite. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u95	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Minister Boris Koprivnikar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u96	I would only explain to Mr. Tonin that I would understand. This year's stone loses 375 thousand in the event of the greatest restriction if it were established. We are talking about the first series of measures that have already been taken, the second one that brings this law, and the continuation of measures that will be further reduced. And if we successfully execute you and compensate for the Kamnik exit of 375 000, then they will also be established, which means that the state will be obliged to pay, as it does now, in the first half of the year from the integral part of the budget next to the principal. That's the deal, and that's how it's written.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u97	Thank you. Does anyone else want to discuss Article 5 and the amendment tabled? [[No, no, ……]] I shall then give further debate on Article 8 and the amendment to Article 8, which is substantively linked to the amendment to Articles 10 and 29, is said to be put together in the debate on Articles 8, 10 and 29 and the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party to this Article. In doing so, I also point out that we have received amendments to the amendment to Article 8. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am also putting to the debate Article 31 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? Mrs. Servant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u98	I would just like to add one additional explanation to Article 31, which means that the procedures to be initiated will be completed by 31 March in accordance with the current rules. It'll be justice. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u99	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. On the basis of the information provided by the Commission, the Commission considers that the Commission is not in a position to assess the compatibility of the measures with the internal market and that it is not in a position to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market. The draft decree was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the motion for a decree, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mrs Mag. Renati Zatler, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. Madam Vice President, honourable Members, honourable Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the National Assembly the adoption of a decision on the State's real estate management plan for public administrations, judicial authorities, public institutions, public economic institutions, public agencies and public funds for 2015. The proposed decree shall be adopted on the basis of Articles 2 and 5 of the Law on Real Property of the State and Self-Governmental Local Communities and Articles 3 and 6 of the Law or Article 13 of the Regulation on Real Property of the State and Self-Governmental Local Communities. The law in Article 11, paragraphs 5 and 6, of Article 13, provides that the plan for the management of immovable property shall be submitted for adoption by the National Assembly, together with the draft budget. In view of the fact that this is a specific case for the rebalancing of the state budget for 2015, the annual plans are also being prepared as a separate decision for 2015, which will repeal and replace the now in force Decision on the State's real estate management plan for public administrations, judicial authorities, public institutions, public economic institutions, public agencies and public funds for 2015. The preparation obligation was also imposed on us by the 14th point of the Government's decision. It takes into account the plan or basis of the real estate management plan and the real estate management plans in 2015, we plan EUR 117 million,337 thousand,971 income from real estate sales. On the other hand, during the same period, we plan to purchase assets of EUR 97 million. In the part where the financial implications relate to the projected increase in the revenue of the State budget, these are indicative financial consequences, which will depend on the success or implementation of the planned real-estate management procedures. In particular, I would like to point out that the motion for a decree does not contain movable or immovable property of a value of less than or equal to EUR 10 000. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u101	Thank you. The motion for a decree was addressed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. Lilliani Kozlovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u102	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government is at its 6th regular session of 12. 2. 2015 discussed the Proposal for a Decree on the State Real Estate Management Plan for State Administrations, Judicial Authorities, Public Institutions, Public Economic Institutions, Public Agencies and Public Funds for 2015 submitted for consideration by the Government. The Committee took note of the proposal for a decree and the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. The representative of the Minister of Public Administration, Boris Koprivnikar, stated in the supplementary explanation that the material includes a real estate management plan, which includes other plans, namely a real estate acquisition plan, a land management plan, a building management plan and parts of buildings in the management of the authorities and a land distribution plan, a building and the management of the authorities. The second plan is a plan for the management of the movable property of a country within which a plan for the acquisition of movable property, a plan for the disposal of movable property and both plans are submitted for adoption by the National Assembly, together with a proposal for a state budget. The proposal for a decree will replace the now in force Decision on the real estate management plan. The Committee was also informed of the written opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which had no comments on the proposal for a decision. The members and members of the Committee did not discuss the draft decision and then voted on all the articles together and adopted them. Since amendments, the Committee on the Interior, the Public Administration and the Local Administration of the National Assembly have not been adopted in the proposal for a decree on the State's real estate management plan for public administrations, judicial authorities, public institutions, public economic institutions, public agencies and public funds for 2015 have not been adopted in the draft decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u103	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party Mir Cerar will be presented by Mrs Janja Slug.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u104	Your Honor, thank you for your word. The proposed decision on the State's real estate management plan for State administrations, judicial authorities, public institutions, public economic institutions, public agencies and public funds for 2015 is adopted in accordance with Article 11 of the Real Estate Act of the State and Self-Governmental Local Communities and Article 13 of the same law and Article 13 of the Real Estate Regulation and of the Self-Governmental Local Communities. Also, the Real Estate Act and the Self-Governmental Local Communities provides that the real estate management plan shall be submitted for adoption by the National Assembly together with the draft budget, in which case the 2015 budget rebalancing. The current decree, which we are adopting today, contains the following: a plan for the acquisition of real estate in the indicative value of EUR 31 million 813 thousand 642; an indicative land distribution plan of EUR 7 million 866 thousand 646; a building distribution plan of EUR 26 million 370 thousand 163; a land-use plan of EUR 66 million 123 thousand 990; a plan for the acquisition of movable property of EUR 63 million 695 thousand 40; and a plan for the availability of movable property of EUR 13 million 721 thousand. In 2015, the government is planning €114 million 81 000 799 from real estate sales and purchases of assets worth €95 million 508 000 682. In the part where the financial implications relate to the projected increase in the revenue of the State budget, the financial implications are indicative as they depend on the performance or implementation of the planned real-estate management procedures and are consistent with the 2015 budget rebalancing. As real estate prices move, it is not possible to accurately predict at this time. The Geodetic Authority perceives a trend that still shows a drop in prices. We also do not know the impact on real estate prices on the sales of real estate by DUTB. The Ministry of Public Administration is aware that the realisation of State property management is significantly lower in terms of planning and intensively seeking a solution for better realisation. In the future, we must therefore take care to centralise the handling of state property, regulate records, regulate real estate and sell them in one place, which will allow for a more cost-effective management of this property. Members of the SMC Group will be supported by a proposal for a decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u105	Thank you. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mrs Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u106	Madam President, thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The Law on Real Property of the State and Local Community provides that the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, shall adopt a plan for the management of immovable and movable property, together with a proposal for a State budget. The real estate management plan shows the acquisition of real estate, the real estate, building plots, buildings, 35 million 141 euros for all organs of general market value and land use, buildings and parts of buildings of 103 million 551 000, including all organs. However, the real estate management plan shows an acquisition of EUR 62 million, of which EUR 10 million total motor vehicles, EUR 428 000 total information equipment of EUR 19 million and EUR 212 000 other movable assets of EUR 32 million 458 thousand. The availability of movable property is also evident: sales of motor vehicles worth EUR 5 million 272 000, sales of information equipment amounting to EUR 60 000 and sales of other movable assets amounting to EUR 8 million 454 thousand. I would like to point out that our party supports proposals that go in the direction of acquisition and disposal of assets in terms of good governance. In this light, all asset managers should act, especially at a time when we are facing a high budgetary deficit, when the country's debt is rising and when the difficulties of citizens and citizens are increasing from day to day. We'd stop at the property management plan, more precisely when it's being acquired. On behalf of our client, I would like to point out that it seems to us that some budget users are planning to purchase vehicles on the current lane and thus do not follow the principle of a good master. Let me mention here that the Ministry of Finance stands out with 45 cars and the Ministry of the Environment and Space with 14 cars. On the other hand, the police union reminds us of an exhausted fleet, but they acted economically and rationally when planning. We propose that these matters be re-examined and assessed once again as to whether all purchases are indeed justified and economical or whether they are in the light of a good master. We would also like to draw attention to the item Information Technology in the total amount of €19 million 212 thousand. For this purpose, EUR 11 million will be allocated to the Ministry of Public Administration alone. Finally, one way or another, we find that these figures in the 2015 budget rebalancing do not match the real estate management plan and that the realisation of the past years is very low in relation to the real estate management reports. Here I would like to point out that we also agree in our party with the Government's view that the relevance of the obligation to prepare these plans is being questioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u107	Thank you. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mrs Mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. It's a nice greeting for everyone! Let me begin by saying that the majority of Desus's Members and Members of Parliament do not object to the proposal for a decision on the country's real estate management plan for 2015. However, we discussed this extensively and touched on individual points, and to some we were very critical. The introduction to the public administration's assets plan is promising. It states that in 2015 we are planning EUR 117 million in real estate sales revenue; on the other hand, in the same period, we are planning purchases of assets of EUR 97 million. But at a slightly more detailed point of view, we were amazed at the Desus Group on some numbers. Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia states that the Republic of Slovenia is a social state, but unfortunately the amounts earmarked for social protection are lower than the others. The amount of the purchase of movable property under the heading of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities amounts to less than half a million euros. These include purchases of essential items for the homes of pensioners, such as dishwashers, gas ovens, organic waste grinding machines, washing machines, lifts for the transport of disabled persons, and more. The purchase of four Spike anti-lock missiles is also worth about half a million euros. The Ministry of Defence intends to buy 20 for which we will deduct 2.4 million euros. The Department of Defence in its armor states that this is a gradual recovery of stocks. It is true, however, that the Ministry will simultaneously sell 30 tanks for €3.6 million and one falcon for €6.5 million. The military is also planning to purchase 40 light wheeled U.S. Hummer armoured vehicles used for the safe transport of infantry units this year, as they have ballistic protection against bulletproof products. Hummer will cost 2 million euros. Some items are also very high in the Ministry of Public Administration. The purchase of three service cutting systems will amount to €1.2 million and HKOM core equipment in just over 3 million. On the other hand, we are pleased to see that the real estate plan provides funds for the homes of the pensioners Nova Gorica and the Institute of Joseph Stefan. At the same time, several unnecessary state properties are sold by the Ministry of Defence, which could at least strengthen the state of public finances for a slight amount of time. In the Desus Group, we also welcome the fact that some purchases of emergency technical equipment will also be made by the Ministry of Health and the Jožef Stefan Institute, which means that, despite the difficult times in the field of public health and science, some resources will still be available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u109	Thank you. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mrs Mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u110	Dear, Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues, nice greetings! On the basis of the legal provisions, the National Assembly shall also consider in its consideration of the budgetary documents the Proposal for a Decree on a Real Estate Management Plan with State administrations, judicial authorities, public institutions, public economic institutions, public agencies and public funds. This time, we have a document with plans to acquire real estate and dispose of land, buildings, land and land for 2015, as well as plans to deal with the country's movable property. The actual assets management plans for public administrations, judicial authorities, public agencies, public funds, public institutions and public economic institutions are generally extensive. However, the target numbers, addresses, squares, orientation values and other data have been written, all with a view to making the plan as transparent as possible. But if we look back a little bit, some of the data is constantly repeating from year to year. Critical debates are also repeated on these documents. In short, these debates generally raise the question of the relevance of the preparation of these plans and, as a rule, there is a major gap between planning and the legal transactions carried out. This is also the reason why, in the position of the Group, the Social Democrats do not even operate with numbers and we do not refer to them. This is exactly what we discussed in January 2015 at the home work body when we considered the Report on Real Estate Management Plans for State Administrations, Legal Authorities, Public Institutions, Public Economic Institutions, Public Agencies and Public Funds 2013. Representatives of the Government stressed that the way of managing the state's real assets would be centralised in the future. We want the Social Democrats to have this governance carried out in accordance with the principle of a good master, as well as in planning for the implementation of the plans, and also in order to ensure that maintenance is carried out in accordance with the principle of a good master. It is not to be overlooked, however, that such a central management and management exercise has already been envisaged, namely by setting up a public real estate fund. However, under the urgency of the decision of the Government in February 2012, all activities relating to the establishment of a public real estate fund were stopped. Whether the fund is successful or not will never be implemented. However, we probably all agree that this area needs to be regulated and that our national assets should be treated as economically as possible. Given that we are considering today the proposal for a regulation on a real estate management plan for 2015, which is an integral part of the Proposal for a rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015, we will support Members and Members of the Social Democrats. At this point, let me also point out support for the updated Proposal for Decisions on the Real Estate Management Plan for Other State Authorities: the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, the Court of Auditors and the Constitutional Court for 2015, which are listed under item 4 of the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u111	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body on the motion for postponement, the amendment cannot be tabled at the assembly meeting. The decision on the motion for a decree will be made today in accordance with the timing of the meeting in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. POSITION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR THE YEAR 2015: DRAFT DECISION ON THE PLAN OF COMPARATION WITH THE REAL ENERGY OF THE COUNTRY FOR THE OTHER COUNTRY AUTHORITY FOR THE YEAR 2015: PROPOSAL OF THE DECISION ON THE PLAN OF COMPARATION WITH THE REAL ENERGY OF THE COURT OF AUDITORS OF SLOVENIA FOR THE YEAR 2015 AND PROPOSAL OF A DECISION ON THE PLAN OF EQUATION WITH THE REAL ENVIRONMENT OF THE STATE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR THE YEAR 2015 Proposals for decrees have been tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In her name, I give the word mags. Renati Zatler, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u112	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Government proposes the adoption of decisions on the country's real estate management plan for other state authorities for 2015. The content of the action plans for other public authorities is the same as for the authorities of the state administration. The procedure for the adoption of State real estate plans for other State authorities shall be laid down in the third paragraph of Article 11 and the fourth paragraph of Article 13 of the Act already mentioned, which provides that the Government shall send a plan of management of the State’s real property to other State authorities and their proposal for adoption by the National Assembly. The Government has thus drawn up a proposal for a decree on the State's real estate management plan for the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, for the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia and for the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015. Only the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has prepared a plan for the disposal or disposal of buildings and parts of buildings for 2015 in which it plans to sell one property at an indicative value of EUR 119 000. It takes into account all plans for the real estate management of the country submitted at the time of the 2015 State budget rebalancing, other state authorities are planning in 2015 to purchase movable assets from the state budget at EUR 147 000 and to dispose of the so-called sale or disposal of real property and to plan a revenue of EUR 132 000. The three decrees are also subject to the adoption of editorial amendments with which the Government agrees. We propose that the Members of the proposed decision be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u113	Thank you. The motions for a decree were also addressed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. Lilliani Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u114	Thank you, Madam President. The Committee shall meet at its 6th regular session. 2. 2015 examined the proposal for a decree on the real estate management plan of the State for the Constitutional Court, the Court of Auditors and the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015, which was submitted by the Government under the Real Estate Act and the Self-Governmental Local Communities. The Committee took note of the proposals for decisions and the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service. Amendments to the draft decrees were tabled by the groups of Members. Mr Koprivnikar, Minister of Public Administration, said in a supplementary explanation that the proposals for decisions on the State's real estate management plan for other state authorities for 2015 in the area of real property acquisition included: for the Office of the President of the Republic – movable property, motor vehicle in the estimated amount of EUR 50,000; for the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia – movable property, motor vehicle in the estimated value of EUR 27 000; for the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia also moved assets, namely motor vehicle and information equipment in the estimated value of EUR 70,000. The Constitutional Court also provided for a plan to dispose of movable property at an estimated value of EUR 13,000. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said in her presentation that their comments by the coalition parliamentary groups had been duly taken into account. The members and members of the Committee did not discuss the proposal for a decree and adopted the proposed amendments. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted on all the articles of the proposal and also adopted them.On the basis of the amendment adopted by the Parliament on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure, the text of the completed proposals for the resolutions in which the amendments adopted is incorporated is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u115	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The Member Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party has the floor. Mrs. Nada Brinovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u116	Thank you again, and once again a nice hello. This point concerns the position of the three proposals for decisions on the real estate management plan for the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, the Constitutional Court and the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015. It is clear from the property management plan that only the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has decided to dispose of an apartment which it considers not to be a strategic investment and that it only costs. However, it is clear from the plan for the management of movable property that all these authorities plan to purchase service vehicles and only the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia provides for the disposal of a vehicle of EUR 13 000. Here we are asked why there are no long-term vehicles of the President of the Government and the Court of Auditors in the action plan, as they state in their explanation that there is a change. So we should also plan a resell. Only in this case would the purchase of these cars be useful. Once again, I would like to point out that our party supports proposals that go in the direction of acquisition and disposal of assets in terms of a good master. However, given that we are living in times when we are reducing budget items at the expense of the weakest, when we are taking budgetary resources to the municipalities and when the budget deficit is higher, we believe that it would also be appropriate to sell these cars both to the President of the Government and to the Court of Auditors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u117	Thank you. The position of the MP of the Party Mir Cerar will be presented by Mrs Janja Slug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u118	Have a nice hello again. The plan for the management of the State’s real property, or for other State bodies, the Office of the President of the Republic, the Court of Auditors and the Constitutional Court, follows the regulation in substance as for other public administrations. The procedure for the adoption of State real estate plans for other State bodies is laid down by the Law on Real Estate of the State and Self-Governmental Local Communities, which instructs the Government to draw up a plan for the real estate of the State for other State bodies on their proposal for adoption by the National Assembly. For the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Public Administration gathered action plans and proposals for decisions for other state bodies. Under this item of the agenda, we are thus considering the Proposal for a Decree on the Real Estate Management Plan for the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015, the Proposal for a Decree on the Real Property Management Plan for the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015 and the Proposal for a Decision on the Real Property Management Plan for the Constitutional Court of Slovenia for 2015. For 2015, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia plans to sell one property at an indicative value of EUR 119 000. A plan for the acquisition of movable property worth more than EUR 10 000 for 2015 was prepared at the Office of the President of the Republic at EUR 50 000, the Court of Auditors at EUR 35 000 and the Constitutional Court at EUR 70 000. For 2015, the Constitutional Court has drawn up a plan for the country's movable assets of €13 000. Other government authorities are planning to purchase mobile assets for 2015 to spend EUR 155 000 on the state budget and are planning a revenue of EUR 132 000 on the basis of real estate. The State's actual assets management plans for 2015 for the remaining State authorities adopted in 2013 remain in force. We will support the proposed decisions in the SMC Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u119	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The amendments were not tabled in any of the proposals for decisions. The decision on the motions for decisions will be made in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. I also interrupt the 9th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u120	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, first of all, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of item 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on intervention measures to balance the public finances of municipalities by emergency procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled by 20. 2. 2015, which you received on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 5 of the SDS Group. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 50. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 8 of the SDS Group. I would point out, however, that the amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Articles 10 and 29. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendments to Articles 10 and 29 shall become irrelevant. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors of the Alliance, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u121	Because it's about the laws that are really connected to the ones that we talked about an hour and a half ago, it's, I mean, right to say the position that we're not going to support this marriage. Especially not because there's been a kind of movement. On the Committee, this decision was taken in order to support and finally organise itself in the entire Slovenian space, so that there will be no legal subjectivity, but today we have experienced a kind of change in thinking that is incomprehensible, incomprehensible, incomprehensible, especially because the Minister has defended it and, in part, even today, he has advocated it, so that of course this reason shows that this is not to be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u122	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Mag Group Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u123	Members of the SMC Group will both support each other for the reasons already stated at the meeting. In fact, it refers to the abolition or, if amendments are adopted, the non-refoulement of the legal entity of the smaller parts of the local community. We in the party itself, even in the coalition, believe that this measure would have positive effects, but the Community of the Communities and the Community of the Communities have somehow opposed it and we believe that since the whole law is an agreement between the partners, we want to allow this partnership and further agreements to continue, so we will support these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u124	There is no more explanation for the vote, so I ask for a vote. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present. There were 76 votes in favour, 7 against. [[The vote was 76.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the amendment to Article 8 has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 10. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present. There were 78 votes in favour and 5 against. [[The vote was 76.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the amendment to Article 10 has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 29. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present. There were 78 votes in favour and 5 against. [[The vote was 78.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the amendment to Article 29 has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 31. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u125	Thank you for your word. We will, of course, support this amendment because it contains provisions on the application of this law and prescribes that procedures whose applications will be submitted by 31. March, completed under the old rules and, after 1 April, applications will be resolved under new rules and the right will be recognised with effect from 1 May for a period of one year. Those tenants who already have the right to a rent subsidy recognised for the period after 31.3. cannot submit a new application before the expiry of the right, as this right has already been decided. Of course, we support the amendment, as we said.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u126	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Members, United Left Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u127	Thank you for your word. I'm gonna have to repeat myself a little bit. We will be absolved of this amendment. Not because you wouldn't be aware of the seriousness of this matter, but as a warning to the coalition, and especially to the SMC, that it's a little better to write laws. We've already had some sub-laws on the boards, when you forget that laws are also put in time, not just space, but you wanted them retrogradely and so on. I don't think the people you graduated from law school should be doing that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u128	Any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 52 of whom were voted against and no one was present. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that the second reading assembly adopted the amendments to Articles 8, 10, 29 and 31 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. Obviously not, so we can move on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u129	Unlike some of the parliamentary groups, as I have predicted, at least we will be consistent. At the outset, I have announced to you that we will decide by the end of the debate how we will vote on this law. I have given some reasons that are unusual and are not exactly proud of the National Assembly or the government coalition to decide on such a law at all. In fact, we are introducing a new parliamentary practice, which, I will say, is unique to this country, so that we can cut 11 laws with one law. Here I see ministers sitting in opposition to the classic ZUJF, when we cut 40 laws, today are vehement to go in this direction and to do so. That was the first reason. The second reason was, as I have pointed out, that despite one particular thing, the law of course saves; but this kind of conversion with one phone call that practically makes the few days of the National Assembly united, and under the pretext that it interferes with local self-government or this independence, which, of course, is made out of a vine, is to say that I am just sad. I am also sad because precisely because of this decision, because of legal personality, the government will pay a considerable amount of money up to a few million when it will coordinate for this same thing next time in the negotiations, in a circle with these same stakeholders. For this reason, I will be very clear: we do not intend to support this bill and we will not participate in this Calvary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u130	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u131	Thank you for your word. As with the last amendment submitted, we will also abstain from the entire law in the United Left. Why? The law contains some good solutions, some bad solutions, because today we have had a substantive discussion on this subject, allow me to summarize something perhaps less substantive in just four points, and therefore no less important matters. Firstly, this proposal does not speak at all of the intervention measures, so the coalition on the committee simply changed its name and removed the word "interventive", which is something that is not done. Secondly, because the measures are not necessary, more than half of them do not have the government's very desirable austerity effects. Thirdly, without radical systemic changes, the congregation will not work better. Fourthly, because the measures are not at all as much coordinated with the representatives of the municipalities as the Government has vehemently claimed. As we say, in the United Left, we will abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u132	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Andrej Katič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u133	The social democrats will support this bill mainly because it has started to negotiate between the municipalities and the government, what we can do to ensure that the municipalities have fewer costs for their operations, but of course we expect that this will only start negotiations and that the real negotiations will only take place. But this is the first step in the right direction, this law is the fruit of cooperation and negotiation between the congregations and the government, and I think it is the right step forward. That is why the Social Democrats, as I said, will support this.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u134	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Mag Group Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u135	Members of the SMC Group will also support this law, because, as the colleague has said, this is indeed one of the first good steps in further regulating local self-government. It will have certain financial effects and we believe that it is necessary to continue in this direction, so we will also support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u136	Since I can see that there is no more explanation for the voice, I can [[…]] Explanation of the vote on behalf of Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u137	One of the few financial effects that will be, is that legal entities that will continue to operate can continue to have external accounting services so as to be able to balance these fourth, village and local communities; and this is the financial impact of this law. Instead of doing so, the congregation would do so for all, with one financial plan. Bravo! It's a savings.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u138	Maybe it's savings or not, but that's not an explanation for the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u139	I won't support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u140	I think that we have also taken advantage of the opportunity to explain our vote, so we can vote in full on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 67 votes against 9. [[The vote was 67.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the law has been passed. We are moving on to the conclusion of the legislative procedure for a proposal for a law that was not the basis for the drafting of an amended proposal for a law. The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Government proposes to the assembly to adopt the following decision: a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, a reduced procedure submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Janije Möderndorfer, is not appropriate for further consideration. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 76 votes against 2. [[The vote was 76.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on a Real Estate Management Plan for State Administrations, Judicial Authorities, Public Institutions, Public Economic Institutions, Public Agencies and Public Funds for 2015. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Group Mrs Janja Slug.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The proposed regulation on the real estate management plan for 2015 is adopted in accordance with Articles 11 and 3 of the Real Estate Act and Article 13 of the Real Estate Regulation of the State and Self-Governmental Local Communities. This law also provides that the action plan shall be submitted for adoption by the National Assembly, together with the draft budget, in our case together with the 2015 Draft Budget Balance. The government plans €114 million in 2015 for €81 000 799 from real estate sales and purchases of assets amounting to €95 million,508 000 682. In the part where the financial implications relate to the projected increase in the revenue of the State budget, the financial implications are indicative as they depend on the performance or implementation of the planned real estate management procedures. This disposition is affected by the movement of real estate prices, which, of course, cannot be accurately predicted at this time, the trend is still in decline, and the impact of the real estate sales that will take place by the DUTB is also indeterminate. The Ministry of Public Administration has assured us that it is intensively seeking solutions for better realisation through centralisation of conduct, regulation of records, legal regulation of real estate and their sale in one place, so we will of course support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u142	Because there is no more explanation [[…]] Explanation of the vote on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Ambassadors, Mr Primož Hainz.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's not on behalf of the parliamentary group, I apologize. Do I finish or wait?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u144	It's okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u145	Of course, I will vote in favour, but I must say that in these months we have talked a lot about public procurement, about buying together. Even the Ministry of Defence asked me how not to use the same systems, but here, of course, I see that the criteria are different what we buy – the same categories, different numbers. In short, if purchases in large numbers are more rational, then I don't know why we don't start doing this right now. Thank you very much. But of course, I will vote for it anyway.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u146	There is no more explanation for the vote, so we begin by voting on the motion for a decree. There are 80 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 21. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 21.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposals for a Decision on the Real Estate Management Plan for Other State Authorities for 2015: under a Proposal for a Decree on the Real Estate Management Plan for the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015, under b Proposal for a Decision on the Real Property Management Plan for the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015 and under c Proposal for a Decision on the Real Property Management Plan for the Constitutional Court of Slovenia for 2015. No amendments to the motions for a decree have been tabled. We will decide on each proposal for a decision individually. First of all, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decree under point a, this is on the proposal for a regulation on the real estate management plan for the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted at second reading at the home work body would make the proposal for a decision inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Group Ambassador Mrs Janja Slug.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The plan of management of real property for other state bodies, i.e. the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, for the Court of Auditors and the Constitutional Court follows the regulation substantively as for the authorities of the State Administration. The Government shall draw up a plan to deal with the real property of the State for other state authorities on their own proposal. In this case, the Ministry of Public Administration has committed for the Government. I will explain for all three offices, namely, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia plans to sell one property in an indicative value of EUR 119 000 for 2015. A plan for the acquisition of movable property worth more than EUR 10 000 for 2015 was prepared at the Office of the President of the Republic at EUR 50 000, at the Court of Auditors at EUR 35 000 and at the Constitutional Court at EUR 70 000. In fact, the Office of the President of the Republic and the Court of Auditors are a substitute, namely a combined vehicle and a personal vehicle, and not a purchase, as was once stated here today. Indeed, the disposal of old vehicles will not reach EUR 10 000 and therefore this price is not covered, is not visible in the decision-making decision. In fact, it is a replacement, so we will support this in the SMC Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u148	There is no other explanation for the vote, so we are voting on this decision. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 53 votes against 22. (The vote was 53.)(against 22.) I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decree under point b, which is on the proposal for a regulation on the real estate management plan of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted in other treatments at the home work body made the proposal for a decision inconsistent. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 53 votes against 22. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 22.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to a decision on the provision of the Decree under point c, this is on the Proposal for a Decree on the Real Estate Management Plan for the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted in other treatments at the home work body made the proposal for a decision inconsistent. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 53 votes against 22. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 22.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 1st item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Draft Rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015. An explanation of the voice? Procedural. Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! On the basis of Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby declare the suspension of 45 minutes for consultation in the Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u150	Before this interruption, I would like to ask for an explanation of the general work. If there is no explanation for general work, then we will proceed only with your explanation after 45 minutes. I'm adjourning the session in 45 minutes. We'll pick it up at 5:15.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u151	Continue with the interrupted 1st item of the agenda. Procedurally, Mr. Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u152	In accordance with Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose 45 minutes for coordination within the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u153	We continue the meeting at 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u154	Continue with the interrupted 1st item of the agenda. He has a word, if he wishes, of course, Mr Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Within the parliamentary groups, as well as the leadership of the coalition parties, we have agreed, and I must say that we have reached the right conclusion. If the economic growth in 2014 is 2.5%, there will be reconciliation of pensions in the following year, and we will have to provide this funding next year in the 2016 budget or the end of this year for the 2016 budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u156	Thanks for the explanation. Can we move on to deciding on the general part of the proposal for a rebalancing? That's where we stopped. Therefore, we are at the proposal for a rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015, in general work. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present. There were 49 votes in favour, 29 against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 29.]] I note that the general part of the proposal for a budget rebalancing has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the Draft Balance of Budgets. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 18. 2. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are moving to budget user 1537 – Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians in place and around the world. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the sub-programme Support for Slovenians in place and around the world. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 51. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budget user 1540 – Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Nationality. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to the Sub-programme Support for Minorities. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Group, Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u157	Thank you very much. The SMC Group will support this amendment. This is also the only amendment supported by the SMC Group in the context of the budget rebalancing, and this is only because there has been a technical error in the preparation of the balance on this item, which has been corrected accordingly.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u158	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors of the Alliance, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u159	A respected choir! You will not believe it, but when we accepted the balance, there was also a technical error; amazingly, with exactly the same amendment and that on the same item! That the Government has not learned, at least those who support and make one and the same technical mistakes, within one and a half years – forgive me, I think it is time for him to take responsibility. Such an amendment is simply impossible to accept: just because of technical error. And I have to say, it's really amazing if you really believe everything. I hope not. We're not gonna back this up. That's not true.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u160	Thank you. I see there's no more explanation for the voice. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against 4. [[The vote was 77.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving to budget user 1714 – Police and to decide on the amendments tabled to two sub-programmes in this budget user. First of all, we are moving to the sub-programme Public Peace and General Security of People and Property. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to this sub-programme under number 1. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group United Left Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u161	Thank you for your word. As you know, in the United Left we have initiated a debate on the situation in the area of the police in particular. Not to be afraid when eco-socialism wins, of course we are not for such a grave machine of this kind, but we are for this kind of apparatus to be properly equipped, it works properly, after all, that it is not dangerous to itself, because then it is also dangerous to us that it is not dangerous to ourselves also because of some frustration, due to overworked wages, spent equipment and so on. I won't be long. This series of police-related amendments will be supported in the United Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u162	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Mag Group Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u163	In view of the objective pursued by the budget rebalancing, i.e. a deficit of less than 3% of GDP, in the SMC Group we will not be able to support this and also further amendments relating to the police. We are aware of the state of affairs in the police since the commitments made on the Committee have been realized, namely, that the remuneration for public servants has not decreased according to the scale of 2014, and that an additional 150 police jobs will be provided this year. With regard to material resources, the budget provides for 278 million, of course for the missing funds that the police will need, if necessary, we have assured the Ministry of Finance that, in addition to these rational measures within the Ministry itself, they will, if necessary, under the Law on the Implementation of the Budget and the Finance Act during the year, allocate funds where necessary and, of course, will not allow human security and property to slip to a lower level, so of course, we trust that this will also happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u164	Explanation of the vote on behalf of Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u165	Yeah, I gotta take this one more time. Of course, I will vote in favour, but from what the SMC has said, it is obvious to someone that this area would become so exhausted that activities in this area would then be privatised. We're in the United Left against that, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u166	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. Yeah, we're on our own now. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u167	These amendments need to be very careful, especially when it comes to the same area and, I will say, they are more or less similar. The difference is where you take it from. If we were to be very precise and we would see – this amendment would be immediately supported, of course, if we did not take it from an item that actually says that we are taking from the general public service, etc. I just can't support it. That's why we gave another amendment, which is the same, but it takes it from somewhere else. Nor will I support the explanation given by my esteemed colleague. In fact, if we place one item on another item, we do not hunt 3%. From one buyer to another, it's the same money. The problem is that this is not a good explanation, because nothing is going to increase. So I suggest we talk about what we know without telling ourselves something that doesn't work together. I will not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u168	Explanation of the vote in his own name, Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u169	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I will support, like my colleague and colleague, this amendment also because I was on a committee that is responsible for internal affairs and, of course, also for the police, and there we have decided that we are committed to the Government to ensure security in the sense of replacing staff losses, if I may say so what the police have experienced last year and also in the past years. Ladies and gentlemen, if we have to talk about anything, that must be security today. Security is threatened at European level and certainly also at Slovenian level. What we've heard from the police, we're very worried about this amendment, and the next one doesn't affect Maastricht, if I may say so. They do, however, have the effect of providing our citizens and citizens with greater security. If anyone is in favour of lowering the security level in Slovenia, or claims that security is at a sufficiently high level, then he will vote against this amendment. But I think we should, colleagues and colleagues, imagine what the situation in the Slovenian police is. See, if there is no security in the country, it is a problem because of our people, it is a problem because of property and on the other hand, when we all say that we have to internationalise the Slovenian economy, I ask myself, for God's sake, who will come to Slovenia to invest if there is no safe country and sees these discussions about – in fact, we all somehow realize that the problem is in the police, but we do not have this money to raise our hand for the peeing four million. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u170	With this we have exhausted explanations of vote and can vote on the sub-programme Public Order and General Security of the people and the amendment of the SDS Group. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 50. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the Alliance's Group to the same sub-programme under number 2. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u171	Thank you very much. This is an amendment that weighs 33 million, virtually nearly 44, unlike the previous one, which is only 4 million. And I believe that now the weight is going to be even worse, if you're not for four, then it's only for 33 million 900, but before you make your decision, it's only right to say the following. If you have read the Minister's statement yesterday that she has received assurances from the President of the Government that within all of this she will make sure that the whole thing works, I must say that I see no reason why now to provide something, why then it is not easy to settle this with the budget today and that this will be guaranteed. Especially because these 33 million 900 are not so drawn, but this is information when we are talking about wages and all the costs that are urgently needed for cars and is the data of the Secretary of State from the Ministry of the Interior. That's why we came from exactly this number and it seems right to me that if you really mean everything you said on the committee that was called on by the United Left at the time, although somehow the United Left was somehow chosen at one of the meetings to prepare it, then the entire coalition with the SMC party supported it and then we supported some conclusions and committed ourselves. [[…]] I must say that in this mandate I am terribly surprised if I have listened in previous mandates, I will say very solidly; if there was a 'no' on the committee, then even later in the budget we have not heard much about it. Today we have a kind of paradox. You're all in favour, only when it comes to voting, but you vote against it. It's kind of not working out. For this reason, I must say that if you look closely, you will see that we are actually taking money from the heading Payment to the European Union and Public Debt Service and Money Management. [[…]] And if anything, then with these two items – and the Minister of Finance knows this – he can arrange everything he promised you during the year, Minister of the Interior, President of the Government. Much faster and faster than what they now promise you will be arranged over the course of the year. I will be very happy and happy if this amendment is accepted, because then we will give the police at least a minimum minimum condition for them to stand in line and say they can be equal to the others. Minister, this is about you. Convince your coalition, most of them in the National Assembly. Believe me, you're gonna make it. They just need to blink. I'm in.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u172	I'm glad you're in, but this was an explanation on behalf of the delegation and it wasn't an explanation, but an invitation to everyone and everyone. So I ask you to stick to what it means to explain your own voice. Any other explanation for the voice? The explanation of vote in its own name is given by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u173	Thank you for your word. Of course I'll support this amendment. I won't be explaining why for long. Regardless of some differences between us, we probably all want a safe country. I'm not going to invite anyone, because I'm not a prophet or anything, but like my colleague Jani, I'm kind of surprised by this bipolarity. If I say bipolar disorder, I'll get a reminder, and I won't say it in certain parties to the coalition. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u174	We vote on the amendment of the Alliance's Group to the same sub-programme as before, under number 2. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present. There were 28 votes in favour and 48 against. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are also moving on to the sub-programme Criminal activities and to the decision-making on the amendment of the Alliance's Group to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 47. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the 2030 budget user, Ministry of Justice. We decide on the amendment of the Alliance's Group to the alternative dispute resolution sub-programme - support activities. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 64. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 64.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budget user 2130, Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, and to decide on the amendments tabled to the four sub-programmes in this budget user. First of all, we are moving to the sub-programme of Local Development Infrastructure. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to this sub-programme under number 1. We're voting Abortion! [[…]] Mr Hanžek has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u175	Thank you very much. I'm sure this is a very useful transfer. It's local infrastructure. We talked a lot about the problems of funding congregations, and this is also one of the things that help congregations. Given that this is also the case for regulating the infrastructure of Roma settlements, this is a double aid. In fact, we know that the country is too much to solve the Roma problem, Roma issues to local communities. And those of the local communities that take seriously their constitutional mandate are in some way punished because they are usually poorer congregations, and then from this smaller work they have to or they want to solve a really criminal standard that is in most or all of the Roma settlements – they differ. That is why this money is twice as useful: it helps to save the finances of those municipalities that seriously intend to help improve the lives of our Roma citizens and thereby reduce the tension between the Roma and the non-Roma population. In the coming years or before, the government should consider this task more seriously, so that it actively includes municipalities where Roma do not live to bring in a share. Thank you very much, and of course we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u176	So we can vote on the amendment of the Alliance's Group to the sub-programme Local Development Infrastructure. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 51. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the same sub-programme under number 2. We're voting. 79 Members and Members were present, with 27 votes against 51. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme Regional Development and to decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the same sub-programme. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 51. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a sub-programme to encourage initial and new investments and to decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 55. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 55.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are also moving to the Sub-programme Effective Marketing and Promotion of Slovenia. First, we decide on the amendment of the Alliance's Group to this sub-programme, under number 1. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors of the Alliance, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u177	We have before us an amendment of three million, where we are actually committed to the promotion of Slovenia. You know that in the National Assembly a procedure is under way to identify the Slovenian tourism organisation of the WTO from, I will say, the framework that is today within the Ministry itself and we are really putting it in a situation where it actually has one task, and this is to carry out the promotion. But the problem arises when you put him in a role, and then you don't give him enough resources to do a quality and good job. At his last appearance on the committee, when we discussed this law, the Minister made it very clear that one of the major issues that will need to be carried out this year is Expo, which will only be worth two million if we want to present it qualitatively. We have on this item this instant 5 million, for the WTO to operate, of course you spend at least half of the costs, but everything else of course runs out of what you really should be doing. With these means we actually provide a multiplier effect, which is that with good promotion, of course we can get our capital back over, I will say, tourism in the Slovenian space. So it seems to me that if we seriously intend to blow this WTO and give it life, then let us give it more energy to actually do it. Why isn't that in the budget? We all know, we know, because there has been a cut in the equality of these cuts within the budgets referred to by the Secretary of State. I think that one correction that we can make in the National Assembly is our responsibility, that is our right, and, last but not least, we have much to say about the Minister on whom we are betting, how successful he is, but in fact, if we want to help him, we must help him now in this way. This amendment would, of course, allow for a quality presentation of Slovenian tourism. Let me conclude, yesterday I heard a discussion that the effects and results of SMC and coalitions will not be achieved until 2016. If we adopt this amendment today, the effects will only be in 2017, so do not wait for the second year, because the end of the mandate will be before you can show the effects. We support this amendment, and that is why we will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u178	Explanation of the vote on behalf of Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u179	Thank you for your word. I will support this amendment. Jani somehow explained the whole story. We have talked several times over the past few weeks about the importance of tourism, how much GDP tourism creates, how much it could create. Without promotion, of course, this will not work, so I will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u180	We can move on to a decision on the amendment of the Alliance's Parliamentary Group to the Sub-programme Effective Marketing and Promotion of Slovenia under number 1. We're voting. 76 Members and Members are present. There were 24 votes in favour and 50 against. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the same sub-programme under number 2. We're voting. 76 Members and Members are present. There were 20 votes in favour and 49 against. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 2330 – Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the sub-programme Reconstruction, Care, Forest Protection. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present. There were 21 votes in favour and 51 against. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 2431 – Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Infrastructure and decision on the amendments tabled to two sub-programmes in this budget user. First, we move to the sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to this sub-programme under number one. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? The United Left, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u181	Thank you for your word. I'm sorry, but these are the subjects I cover in the toilet. I'm going to talk about a series of these amendments on this item. Each one of us, coming out of his own environment, could write some such amendments. I would say about my part of Slovenia, where I was elected, and if I sat down with a few other people together, I would write fifty of them, for the White Country probably thirty. We have about 6,000 kilometres of state roads to roughly settle them, to flood them, to need 300 million, and in this year's budget will be on this item, it seems to me that, some 75 million, something like this – the minister is currently not Short, a good quarter. [[…]] There is some serious problem that needs to be addressed properly. We will support the eleventh amendment relating to bridge rehabilitation, those seventeen urgent matters, and in other matters from this item we will, in essence, be held back for the reason I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u182	We can move to a decision on the amendment of the Alliance's Group to a sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads under number one. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present. There were 20 votes in favour, 51 against. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to this sub-programme under number two. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present. There were 20 votes in favour, 51 against. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to this sub-programme under number 3. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 51. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to this sub-programme under number 4. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 51. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to this sub-programme under number 5. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 51. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to this sub-programme under number 6. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 51. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to this sub-programme under number 7. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 51. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to this sub-programme under number 8. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 52. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to this sub-programme under number 9. Mr Marijan Pojbič has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u183	Thank you, Mr. President! We have tabled an amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party because we are convinced that the issue facing the Municipality of Zgornja Kungato needs to be addressed in a manner consistent with the signed Treaty. 4. Ten. In 2013, a contract was signed with the Municipality of Zgornja Kungato, i.e. a three-partite contract between the Directorate for Roads, the Municipality of Kungato and the contractor, for the value of millions and 300 thousand and more. However, irrespective of this Treaty, which was signed already in 2013, 2014 with the rebalancing and 2015, the funds were re-scheduled by the rebalancing of the budget from the item which ensured the execution of what was signed under this Treaty. The municipality of Zgornja Kungota has provided the budget with 300 000 euros, while the country which should provide a million and 50,000 euros through the signed contract has withdrawn this issue by means of a rebalancing. We are convinced in the Slovenian Democratic Party that this problem must be resolved and therefore we have proposed this amendment, this amendment has been tabled and we are confident that today Members and Members will vote for this amendment precisely because this treaty has already been signed 4. Ten. 2013 Among other things, because this Upper Kungota municipality is bordering with the Republic of Austria, and where it shows the exact difference between this precious Republic of Slovenia, the country, taking care of its municipalities at the edge of the countries, that is, at the edge of Austria, and how, on the other hand, the Republic of Austria takes care of the municipalities that are bound to the border — that is, the borders are officially no longer — but when we talk about the link between Slovenia and Austria. I am sure that this road — and all those who have ever driven on this road — could find that it is very problematic and that reconstruction is of great importance and must be done. I therefore ask all the members of the National Assembly to support this amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Parties, because it will be supported by all Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, because we are aware that this country of Slovenia is not only standing in Ljubljana, but also stands in the municipalities that are outside this adultery of the capital of Ljubljana. That's why I'm asking you to confirm this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u184	Explanation of the vote in his own name, Mr Andrej Chuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u185	A lot of people are going to be surprised at what happens now, Andrej Chuš, a reasoned voice and support for this amendment. But I would like to say that we have a coherent regional development law in force in Slovenia. And any of you new Members — 64 of you — should have heard anything about this law? I don't think so. The principle of this law is that all regions that are less developed need to develop faster than those that are better developed. That is why, of course, I support the amendment proposed by my fellow Member, Mr Pojbič. In the final stage, I am also supporting this amendment because I am also a member of the northeast part of Slovenia, namely Styria, and I think that much more resources from Ljubljana should be transferred to Styria than have been transferred to today. At the same time, Ambassador Pojbič said that the municipality had provided all the funds necessary to finance the construction of this road. Unfortunately, it's the ministries that didn't do it and the state. Today, when in the media, we listen everywhere to the pursuit of how the congregations are responsible for all living things in this world, it seems to me on the basis of these explanations: the municipalities are still the only rural development capital and fulfil their obligations by example, but the ministries and the state do not. This isn't a problem in the congregations, it's in the official third league. I therefore call for us to approach some reform of public administration and finally call on those who hinder the development of other regions of Slovenia to be held accountable. Finally, I would like to say: it is not only Ljubljana Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u186	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mrs Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u187	Thank you very much. I will support this amendment, although it is one of the roads, as Mr Trcek says, from our region, which we are defending. I have also proposed such an amendment for a similar road, which is also dangerous, and there is also a mandatory road, when the highway closes, is a compulsory road for Dramalje, Slovenian Horsemen – unfortunately the amendment has not been adopted, but I will also gladly support it. In fact, it is also a matter of road safety, and if we are talking about safety, we can also talk about this safety, and that there will be no self-closure of such roads because of, I will say, the beaches and so on – if such roads are not already closed by citizens to achieve their own, so that they will achieve a reconstruction of roads. After interviews at the Ministry of Infrastructure and after interviews at the Roads Directorate, they also asked themselves, they said, look, we don't have the money, but if you make any amendments, so now it is up to you Members to resolve these matters in this way, which is actually very sad. [[…]] I thought these things would have a little more support in the National Assembly than they did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u188	I think there's enough reason to ask for an application. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Mr Bojan Podkrodšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u189	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will be happy to support this amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party myself. Yesterday we talked all day about the most important document this year, the 2015 Budget Balance. Citizens, we must somehow understand that there is no money for many areas, but it is unacceptable for us that the projects that began years ago were signed contracts – and these projects are now terminated. If I recall correctly, yesterday our group leader, Mr Tanko, spoke about this, compared the economy. It would be very plausible if in the Republic of Slovenia one company interrupted its production process, which began one year or two years ago. This would be a huge loss for this company, so let us be so responsible that the projects that started are projects that are signed contracts, that we continue and end them. Above all, I think this project is very important, because I am also at the border with the state of Austria, and I am giving it extra weight. I therefore appeal to all honourable Members and Members to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u190	I beg a little silence when others speak. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u191	Dear President, thank you very much. Of course, I will support this amendment, which my colleagues previously mentioned, I think Mr Marijan Pojbič and Andrej Chuš have said something. For some, I would like to say from my point of view why it is precisely for this road to be allocated. This is a border area, as Pojbič explained earlier. So in this border area, at least in the coming years, we want to establish close cooperation with the Republic of Austria, mainly because of the promotion of the Styria region. Europe of the Regions is a project that will run next decade We want in this area people who have been permanently deprived, who have never felt at least part of some infrastructure that Ljubljana has ever had with its surroundings, to get some basis with this infrastructure, so that we can also start expanding tourism in this area. [[..]] It's mostly about wine roads. As you know, South-East Styria has a well-known wine road and we also have many vineyards in this area in Kungota. And the road to bring tourists, especially cycling tourism to this area, is a foundation. If you allow this million euro, this million euro can also mean for these people, who are extremely deprived in the Slovenian Gore, one of the next options where they can present their products for the first time can be sold. It's part of a tourist road that has a broader meaning. It is not a local story, it is a wider road, so I would like to ask all my colleagues, my colleagues, also as a member of the Slovenian Mountains, to support this amendment, which was also presented by my colleague Pojbič. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u192	Please calm down. Explanation of the vote in his own name, Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u193	Thank you, Mr. President. I will support this amendment, as will all previous and future so-called road amendments. The situation on our roads, of course state roads, is problematic, not to say dramatic. A few days ago, I read that one car corporation, I'm not doing the commercial that decided the following. To shorten the warranty period for cars sold in Slovenia. And I don't want any foreign automobile corporations telling us what kind of roads we have. I want all of us, all of us 90, to drive around this country with our eyes open, and that we must probably be taken care of by our fellow citizens' safety and security. I am concerned that I have witnessed many, indeed many fatal accidents in Prekmurje, because I know this area better, where the reason and cause of the accident was the only and only hole in the road, poor road infrastructure. If we want to develop the economy, if we want to open new jobs, you will not find a hero who would invest in a place where a holed road leads or where there is no road at all. I think there is also an opportunity here for at least some way of the coalition to show that it is serious when it says that we are going together, that we must now take this first step together with the opposition. So, I support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u194	Explanation of the vote on behalf of Mr Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u195	Thank you, Mr. President. I have asked this issue in writing, to which Mr Gasperšič, Minister, answered the following question. I will quote one paragraph: "November 2014 the then Directorates of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads with the 2014 budget rebalancing and the adopted budget for 2015 have been severely reduced financial resources for investments in the maintenance of state roads in the Republic of Slovenia. As a result of this fact, the Directorate failed to start construction works, including on the investment project mentioned in Zgornja Kungota. Two annexes have already been concluded with the construction works operators and the co-financing of the municipality of Zgornje Kungoto to extend the period of execution and completion to 30. 11. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. As long as the 2015 budget is rebalancing, which is currently being prepared, it is possible to provide financial resources, we will carry out the construction work this year." But, Mr President, the money was also withdrawn for 2015 from this item to ensure co-financing of this project. So that means that the Minister who wrote this wrote just to give me answers, and he doesn't care how those people in the Upper Kungota Congregation and in the Slovenian Gorges live, how they can drive, what roads they will drive and so on. It doesn't matter! And it doesn't matter to this government how this happens. I am convinced that this is a distasteful, irresponsible, unacceptable and extremely irresponsible behaviour and attitude of those in this country as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the coalition represents the interests of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, not only Ljubljana, but also citizens and citizens of the Upper Kungota. That is why I am sure that we should support this amendment today and prove that it is Slovenia, not Ljubljana.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u196	We have used the explanations of vote on our own behalf, so we can move to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to the sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads under number 9. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 46. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to this sub-programme under number 10. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group, Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u197	Thank you for your word, President. Ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues! You probably all know that the Škopheločans, the Poles of Sevčians and others after almost 30 years of negotiations, coordination and I don't know what else we're going to get a bishop's carriage. I come from the Poljanska Valley alone, and the Polish people will be greatly relieved of the day-to-day transit. It also builds, this year will be the opening of the Gornjeva Oblast, where I come from. Now we are missing another thing for the better development of the place, and this is the road leading from Gorenje village to Todraž, there is an industrial zone, 12 companies, about 80 employees, the road is really in bad condition, it goes through two narrow settlements, there are many pedestrians, so there are also many sections of this road is dangerous. That's why I've only proposed a million and 250 thousand euros to build the first phase, and the whole thing is going to be about four million there, and I'm asking you for support. Last but not least, I am sure that you will support this amendment also because, on this road, my fellow citizen is practically driving daily, this is Mr Boris Koprivnikar, Minister of Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u198	Please don't worry. I didn't give a word to anyone. This way we can move on to the decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to this sub-programme under number 10. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 49. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are now deciding on the amendment of the SDS Group to this sub-programme under number 11. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 25 votes against 48. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to this sub-programme under number 12. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 51. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to this sub-programme under number 13. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 50. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are also moving to the sub-programme Investment activity on railway infrastructure and decision-making on the amendment of the SDS Group to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 50. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a budget user of 2550 – the Ministry of Environment and Space and to decide on the amendments tabled to two sub-programmes in this budget user. First, we are moving to the sub-programme Mines and the rehabilitation of mining damage and to the decision-making of the SDS Group's amendment to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 50. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are also moving on to the sub-programme of Water Management and to decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present. There were 21 votes in favour and 50 against. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budget user 2611 – Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and to decide on the amendments tabled to the three sub-programmes in this budget user. First, we move to the sub-programme Family benefits and parental benefits and to decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to this sub-programme. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Nova Slovenija Group - Christian Democrats Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u199	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. New Slovenia - Christian Democrats We have tabled an amendment to improve or increase the Family Benefits and Parental Refunds. I think the name of the item itself actually tells us everything. Recently, we had a discussion and found out how poverty is growing in us, that the most at the stroke of the family, and even those where parents are unemployed. We have 22,000 families where two parents, both parents, are unemployed. There are 22 000 such families! This was last served on the relevant committee with this information. We all know that the child’s allowance is part of the family’s income and is intended for the survival, upbringing and education of children. The children's allowance is aimed at equating the family's survival, upbringing and education potential. The justification and height of the child supplement is, of course, linked to the property status of the family. In the face of general social distress in our country, children’s allowance is often the only but important income of families for the survival of children. The rate of poverty in Slovenia is increasing. Colleagues and colleagues, the country is obliged to take measures to prevent children from being exposed to poverty as the most vulnerable group of people. It is therefore necessary to take measures in this area to protect children; it is the protection of children, colleagues and colleagues! A child's allowance is an important lever to address material deprivation. In addition, Slovenia, as in fact the whole of Europe, is facing a decline in fertility, which is also strongly linked to the social picture of the family. Many couples, especially those where one of the partners is unemployed, do not decide to increase the family or the additional child because of and precisely because of the material situation in the family. All this and much more are the reasons why we have decided to increase the line of Family Receipts and Parental Remuneration by an amendment which increases this item by 10 million euros. The New Slovenia Group will, of course, support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u200	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u201	Thank you very much, President. Colleagues and colleagues! My colleague Horvato, of course, I absolutely agree that such measures and more must be taken to protect the rights of children, the rights of families, the rights of the most vulnerable target groups. However, the Desus Group will not support this amendment for a simple reason, because all those beneficiaries of the child allowance and parental benefits and all other types of family benefits will receive – so their right to pay these transfers is not questioned because it is stipulated by law and by decision itself. In the event that the funds on these items are running out, precisely for this reason, because the guarantee is in the decision of the Centre for Social Work, the funds will have to be provided and will be provided as they have been provided for all these years. We had a similar debate at the time of the 2014 budget rebalancing. However, I wish to be honest that this country, this government, is taking measures that will mean that the situation of children, the situation of families, including those with more children, is significantly improving. However, I will be sincerely pleased if these resources are not to be used to the full, because this means that people will be in such a situation when they do not need them. Once again, the Desus Group will not support this amendment, simply because the beneficiaries must in any case receive the funds paid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u202	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group United Left Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u203	Thank you for your word. My friend Jozko said well that the name tells us everything. Comrade Prikl is coming from Maribor. I'd be happy if there was money left on this item, but we know it's a fairy tale, frankly. I believe that when a budget is being made, although I have not done any work to sit in some of the halls, maybe even the blinds are down and the programs are spinning at that time and there's something that we say in a nice Slovenian "fine tune" and if you're in the government or coalition, you're probably looking at what the Statistical Office prepares for you and Umar in a way that's kind of more appropriate for you. For 15 years I have taught indicators of social development, I can say that I am at least a good layman, if not an expert on it, and the situation is far from pink. The situation is, if she reads a little paper, you know how she is. In the United Left we will support this proposal from New Slovenia. This is an area – although in the areas of what family, what a natural family is supposed to be, we are very different, but we hope that this supplement will be given to children from all possible different forms of family, also because I have already experienced that my kid comes from school all sad that his friend told him that we are not a family – but, this is another topic for another debate. I know Urosh worked in the districts, he understands things, but it seems to me that this amendment could also be supported by some coalition parties, and thus also show some people who don't live as well as we do in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u204	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Group Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u205	Thank you for your word, President. Dear ministers, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! It is true, as already mentioned by a colleague, that in fact each child would have one such optimal child allowance. In fact, each child’s allowance is linked to the material position of the family and is measured for this. However, in this financial framework, as we have at our disposal, the Ministry has taken such a stance that child allowances are very targeted. That means the most vulnerable families really get them. If economic growth and the general climate, which is fragile but will continue, we can assume that there will also be a little less unemployment and that these resources will be sufficient to do so. However, if the situation were different and might change, the legal basis for these funds to be ensured is that they are linked to the decision of the Centre for Social Work. That's why I think those kids who need it will definitely get this money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u206	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of the Social Democrats, Mrs Andrej Katič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u207	Yesterday at the debate, Minister Anja Kopač Mrak said that this budget item 3556 provided exactly the same funding as the 2014 implementation assessment. The children's allowance is unfortunately an important income of the family and it is not expected that the situation of families will improve significantly and that the Social Democrats would not agree to a budget that would not take into account other items, family benefits, parental benefits and the like in order to guarantee all rights and sufficient resources to pay these basic family benefits. Therefore, we do not believe that this amendment has to be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u208	We're done with the explanations of the voice, so [[…]] Explanation of the vote in his own name, Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u209	Thank you, Mr. President. Just a few more words. Of course, the minister said that the item is at the same level as the realisation in 2014. I was just waiting for her. However, we want to raise the children's allowance with this amendment. Lift! And now back to your thumb calculation. If the data are official and accurate, that we have 24 000 families, where both parents are on the road, are unemployed, if these families have only one child on average, and if we give one child 500 euros a year, we are at 12 million. That's what this is about! Don't talk to me about reality, please! I will support this amendment — twice!
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u210	Explanation of the vote in its own name Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u211	I won't do it twice because they won't give me two votes. My buddy went out, but... [[…]] I'd say a little bit like my forerunner. It pisses me off, too, if there's economic growth, but there's going to be more employees. Sorry, not only in the coalition contract, but years ago when the savings started, it was said that not only pensions but also social contributions would be coordinated at 2.5% growth. We are talking about how there will be more growth, but we are not thinking about being able to increase not only these gains that we have just talked about. I would very much like to have systemic solutions, but I will support this amendment, because at least something suggests something, and in fact we should be doing all the social contributions that have been frozen for several years. Especially with greater economic growth, there is no argument at all that we are saving, but I will repeat this: obviously we are used to saving; when necessary, we have saved, now that the economic growth is 2.5%, we will continue to save, and we will probably be saving again next year because we will forget that there is no saving at all. Once again, I'm going to repeat what I said: saving is not an economic necessity, but it's obviously an ideology. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u212	Explanation of the vote on behalf of Mr Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u213	Dear Mr. President! This amendment of New Slovenia - Christian Democrats, of course, I will be absolutely happy to support. I am sure that they have proposed something that is still important in this given situation. Mr Jožef Horvat gave an extremely detailed explanation of why these amendments were proposed. When the government explained why this amendment was rejected, it wrote: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia agrees on the importance of children's allowances and their positive impact on poverty reduction. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is also aware that the social situation of individuals and families has a significant impact on fertility. The estimated positive developments in the labour market will also have a positive impact on the number of recipients and consequently on the level of resources. Nor is legal change foreseen, which consequently means that the estimated funds are sufficient." And in the last sentence she wrote: "The government rejects that amendment because it interferes with the means to carry out the legal duties of the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. See, the Holy God can only help us when the Government of the Republic of Slovenia allows itself to write this last paragraph on such an important issue. I am sure that he is not in this national assembly that I would like to have in the field of governance of this country a government that allows itself to write such a paragraph or such a last sentence. It is truly sad, or this government does not really know what it is doing. I am sure, not only because of what this government wrote in the last sentence, because it is offensive, but we must support all those who are aware and know what it means. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u214	I see we haven't exhausted yet, so please sign in. Explanation of the vote, Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u215	Mr President, thank you very much! I am also supporting the amendment of colleagues from New Slovenia. I believe that it is difficult to seek money, not my intention to start populism, but I think that the information that my colleague Horvat mentioned, how many families live literally below the poverty line, is what we meet daily, especially those Members who come from the countryside. Recently, I also proposed to the Minister of Economy a new model of excise, i.e. a change in the excise model, and his question was also at the level of someone who would not even finish primary school. [[…]] So, Slovenia has a distinct opportunity to cash all kinds of money in transit, you don't know that, and at least all the millions that we're denying to families and children today are hidden right in a lot of cars that drive through Slovenia today, don't stop here, don't stop here, don't buy cigarettes, don't buy alcohol, don't buy alcohol in Slovenian shopping centers, and so on. That means it's less. I have proposed solutions where we can get more money into the state budget, but as you know or you don't know, we will have to wait for a serious right government to solve these issues and they will be able to spend more money on children, families and everything. It's just some typical understanding of the social state. This is how I never understood it, and I've always suggested where to get more money, but I didn't start populism. That is why I am once again supporting this amendment of colleagues from New Slovenia, because I believe that this amendment has some basis and some real value. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u216	The chairman listens to what you say, and he does not agree that anyone on the government team would have only completed primary school. Everyone's got more than that. Procedurally, Mr. Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u217	Mr President, I propose that I can show you such an answer to the Minister as soon as possible. I don't think you'll believe what the argument is in this answer is written by someone who leads or leads the people who run the Ministry of the Economy at this point. I was shocked, I will put this answer on Facebook briefly or anything in public to see what is the argument of someone why this is not possible in Slovenia. Why can't you do that? And there's something else to say. With regard to excise duties, although they have nothing to do with it now, I also have an answer from Petrol's representatives, the largest company, where they somehow call on the Ministry of Finance and the Minister to change the excise model – and nothing has happened! For six months, we are losing more than a million euros and nothing — three million euros — and none of this is happening. That is why my intention is not to offend my colleagues, but I will present this answer to the public, Minister for the Economy, because I do not think it is at the level of either the minister or someone who has graduated from high school. Literally, you need to see this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u218	That wasn't procedural, so I'm warning you. Let's move on. We have an explanation for the vote in our own name, and this is Mr Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u219	Thank you very much, President. I'll skip Petrol myself to child support and other family benefits. Look, I believe that the Ministry of Labour has assessed the necessary resources correctly to take into account all the parameters that are relevant here, that the funds are as much or that the funds will be as much as will actually be necessary. I will not support this amendment because I do not think it is necessary. In the event that, once again, I stress, the funds for the payment of child allowances, parental allowances and other family benefits have been accidentally exhausted, decisions are in place and the money will be provided. This money has to be secured! Each year it is guaranteed and this year it will also be this way. And all those beneficiaries who will meet the conditions for the allocation of each type of remuneration within the year will receive them. And there's something else. No law, no regulation this year is planned to restrict the rights to these transfers in any way, and I think it is essential. But I'm probably one of those people who, after a few years of service at this ministry, has little sense of social welfare. I believe I have it, and I will be most pleased that the situation of children and families will improve significantly. This will not be the end of my implementation, but not only measures in the area of social, family and other transfers, but also measures in the field of employment, but also measures in the field of housing policy, economy and so on. So there's no need, and I'm not accusing anyone of populism, of course, here. I respect you, advocates, supporters of this amendment, but there is no need. Whoever is entitled and will be entitled to such benefits by a decision will also benefit from that remuneration. That's what I guarantee you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u220	You will therefore vote against, of course. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u221	Thank you for your word. I too have been elected to Maribor and would not dare to say that there is no need, and walk the streets in Maribor. Look, we're in an ideology: however key economic indicators show, we need to trim, we need to tighten the belt. That's what my colleague Hanžek was talking about. When it's good years, we'll squander for bad years, when bad years are bad years, we'll squander for good years and in a circle ahead. It is an ideology that is then somehow disguised in such an economical-macro-technical nebulosis, if I put it that way, and we are spinning around in this circle, that on the one hand we will have an ever richer, more poorer, if we unscramble some transfers, if we look at this data a little differently, we will see that Slovenia is no longer so egalitarian. If you go to watch, if you put this away, you will see that the location where you live is increasingly explaining to you how you live. A colleague from SMC said the Ministry took such a stand. That's just the attitude that this coalition takes. But I could also take a different attitude after all. I will tell one story, of course, to anyone from Ljubljana who will find it populism. Two years ago, I was teaching at Ormož High School, and I was talking to my friends, and we used to study together, and they told me that Jozko would talk. Half our students are either both unemployed or one is unemployed. If we want to organize a trip to Ljubljana, it is €37 or €38 or €39 – you know, the bus costs, and the museum has a lot of money – and they ask us if they can pay us in two meals. This is also Slovenia. This is what I call second, third Slovenia. Finally, let us start to understand and vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u222	But if that was the explanation for the vote, it was, above all, a controversy. [[…]] The explanation of vote is intended to explain your vote. And your vote is yes. But the reason for your "yes" vote is obviously an ideology that's hiding in the balance. That would be a lot easier to say. Any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. We can move to a decision on the amendment of the Nova Slovenije Group to a sub-programme Family benefits and parental benefits. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 50. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a sub-programme of scholarships and to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to this sub-programme. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u223	Thank you for your word. In this amendment, we are giving an additional three million euros for scholarships and this is the first of our two so-called amendments. Why are these two amendments, or why can we specifically read these amendments as developmental? Instead of developing into underdevelopment offered by the Government, we are proposing a switch to scholarships simply because highly educated citizens are indispensable if we want to develop a production process based on productivity and not on direct reduction in labour costs, as today's rhetoric very much likes to lower people. In addition, scholarships are important social remedies while at the same time reducing student selection on the basis of material resources, they are an important contribution to greater social mobility. This is all the more important in today’s education, where poverty and inequality are clearly growing and visible. In any case, we can finally afford to expand, strengthen the area of scholarship, which has been declining in the last decade in general. 3 million may not be much, but there is some contribution we would like to make in the United Left, which we are proposing in the United Left. Why, we have already said: both because of students, their families, students themselves, and because of some developmental perspective that is linked to the wider educated population, who can follow their happiness through the education vertical, regardless of the social environment they come from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u224	We are moving on to a decision on the grant sub-programme and to a decision on the amendment of the United Left Group. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 10 votes against 62. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 62.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are also moving to a sub-programme for the protection of the mentally and physically affected and to a decision on the amendment of the United Left Group to this sub-programme. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group United Left Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u225	Dear President, thank you for your words, colleagues and colleagues! I had this honor and happiness that I could work with people with physical and mental disabilities. I can assure you that every euro invested in their development has been reimbursed three to ten times, because then these people are easier to help themselves, and the country needs to take much less care of them. Therefore, in the United Left we propose to increase resources for the protection of persons with disabilities in physical and mental development. In our view, an increase is necessary because these funds have been stagnant for three years. Economic growth reached 2.5% this year and forecasts for 2015 and 2016 are favourable. The balance of the budget is based on the Ministry's assessment of how much it will pay, disability benefits and benefits for foreign care and assistance, but some institutions that carry out protection of persons with disabilities in physical and mental development are also financed from this programme. Part of these institutions is private, of course, and part is owned by the Republic of Slovenia. We expect the United Left to allow them to develop, but not to maintain crisis financing for several years. And as colleague Hanžek said: Saving is not an emergency, but is an ideology – as we were taught at times to eat at least one day of old bread, regardless of whether we went to the store every day for fresh bread. Therefore, please vote in favour of our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u226	Explanation of the vote on behalf of Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u227	Even though I'm the head of the parliamentary group, I don't have to. Are we listening to what we're saying? Disorders in mental and physical development, protection of the mentally and physically affected – in what century do we live, please? And that's that and a colleague and a friend and Mr President, an ideology that's hiding in the balance. Intruders are those who still use such words in the 21st century. I will vote for this amendment, but please, please, please don't use those words anymore because they are offensive! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u228	We vote on this sub-programme and the amendment of the United Left Group to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present. There were 28 votes in favour and 45 against. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budget user 2613 – The Republic of Slovenia Inspectorate for Work and we are deciding on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to the sub-programme Edit and Control in the Work Area. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group United Left Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u229	Thank you so much for the voice. I'm not going to repeat it, but I already said yesterday, although sometimes it seems a little funny to me that even in the afternoon we're sitting here explaining why it makes sense, but that we already know in advance that it doesn't matter anyway, because no argument applies, but he did repeat this torture. We don't have to watch a lot of media, and we see what is done in a bunch of companies where they exploit workers, they don't have protection, they work without pay, they don't have no contracts, and so on, not just ours, not just ours – all in a row. These abuses are handled by 80 inspectors for almost two hundred thousand companies in Slovenia, which means that even if we were to work 24 hours a day — they barely look. And we are therefore convinced that this additional money should be given to increase the number of inspectors employed, so that at least as many inspectors as we had in 2010. That's it. Of course, we will vote in favour, in the hope that perhaps others will vote a little differently.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u230	We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to the sub-programme Editation, supervision in the field of work. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 50. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 2711 – Ministry of Health. First, we decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Investment Investment Sub-programme at the secondary and tertiary level under number 1. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group, Mr Andrej Chuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u231	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary! I don't know what else to say on the basis of the last two weeks of the National Assembly. We had a regular meeting of the Health Committee, where we voted on the decision to include the Ptuj Emergency Centre in the emergency centres network and to approach the construction of this facility as soon as possible. This decision was supported, I can say, by almost the entire opposition, by the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek, while the need for a local environment after the establishment of an emergency centre in the Municipality of Ptuj, which – for example, the General Hospital Ptuj surrounds more than 120 thousand Slovenes and Slovenes – has also been recognized by certain coalition parties. Thus, our proposal for a decision was also supported by the Social Democrats, while the vote with the Democratic Party of Slovenian pensioners was one against the other. Unfortunately, there was a vote on this decision at the end of 8-8, but in the end the policy somehow came together and recognized the need of the local environment, including the support of more than 18 mayors from Lower Podravje, who made it clear that it was not a political definition of who came from, but of the need for a local environment. The town of Ptuj, Lower Podravje need an emergency center. Therefore, at the regular meeting of the Health Committee at that time, I hope that the whole policy was taken together and confirmed by 15 votes in favour, none against the inclusion of the Ptuj Emergency Centre in the network of emergency centres in the Republic of Slovenia. With this amendment, we are essentially giving the Ministry of Health an additional three million euro of the funds to be saved on holiday houses, garages, maintenance of public administration facilities to join the construction of the emergency centre Ptuj, which the Ministry of Health has promised to the City Municipality of Ptuj and Lower Podravje since 2003. It is true that there was silence for several years and nothing was happening in this area, but in 2011, Dr Marusic, the current Minister of Health at the Ptuj visit, also made a public commitment that Ptuj needed an emergency centre and should be included in the emergency centres network. I think it's beneath all honor today that I have to talk about it, but I'm sure it is. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] the decision to support, given that ten emergency centres are already being built or one is already being built, plus the construction of the Ljubljana Emergency Centre. That we need to talk about one thing, I mean. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u232	Explain to the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u233	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The New Slovenia Group will support this amendment. As we say, it's about building an emergency center for Ptuj. Northeastern Slovenia has had development problems for many years, simply because we do not have coherent regional development in Slovenia. And if, then, in the field of health care, in the field of emergency health services, it would certainly be necessary to make a single decision or unanimously decide to support the construction of the Ptuj Emergency Centre. We are pleased that the Health Committee has proposed to the Government to include the Ptuj Emergency Centre in the network of emergency centres. There was a consensus here. This agreement was reached on the Health Committee. In fact, I wonder whether we have parliamentary democracy or not. Because if it worked, actually, this amendment wouldn't have to be written down. We in Novi Slovenija strongly support efforts to build the Ptuj emergency centre as the general hospital of Ptuj is mainly connected to the inhabitants of the region of Podravje Podravje and the surrounding municipality, or at least 120 000 people of Slovenia. This, of course, reminds us that there were 44 000 364 urgent hearings at this end last year. It is said that more than 44,000 urgent treatments, which also shows the clear justification and the need for the organisation of the Ptuj Emergency Centre, even C2 levels, will continue and deepen the inequality in the treatment of residents of the area, which has been receiving significantly less health programmes and money than the rest of the comparable environment for years. This is also written to us by the Mayor of Ormož Municipality, our member Mr. Aloise Sok, a doctor of veterinary medicine. Not just because of this letter, because of the actual need, due to more than 44,000 urgent hearings last year, I think it is imperative that the construction of the emergency centre Ptuj begin; and this as soon as possible. Once again: The New Slovenia Group will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u234	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Group of Members, Mr Branko Zorman.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u235	President, thank you for your word. Hello government representatives, colleagues, colleagues! We in the SMC Group will, of course, vote against this amendment, as previously said. And I'll explain why. First, it must be said that an emergency center or a real emergency medical service is operating on Ptuj. It has been heard that it is not and that all the inhabitants of that part of Slovenia are there without urgent medical care, which of course is not true. It must be said that the Ministry of Health has managed to obtain significantly more resources in this budget balance than originally planned, but it is also necessary to tell what these funds are intended for. They are intended primarily for, that is to say, this surplus, primarily for the completion of all the projects initiated by these 10 emergency centres, which are being built, which must be completed and operated by the end of this year. Otherwise, Slovenia is in danger of having to repay the already acquired European funds, which means that this is a first priority. As far as the Ptuj Emergency Centre is concerned, it is true that the committee was told that the Ministry was somehow charged to include the Ptuj Emergency Centre in the network, which I believe will happen in the future, but in 2015 there is no money for this Ptuj Emergency Centre. We will not support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u236	Any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members first. On behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u237	That's really amazing, President, I raised my hand for the first time, but O.K., but then in the end, I wonder if anyone happened to be but, okay, that's just, we're small, or what's it called. [[…]] [[…]] [[advertising from the hall: a customer.]] No, it's something else. [[…]] This amendment, Comrade Chuša, is in fact the only proper amendment. It is not true that there is no money in 2015 because the Minister said that there will be no money in 2016, and then it is necessary to say it out loud. Because he's not here. But that's exactly why I keep saying, in the National Assembly, we need to make a correction that the government can't. And let us understand that it is a simple decision to make. That is why, of course, in the Group of Members, all four of us, although we are only four, we support the intention and it is not indeed yes, it is, it works first aid, but in a state that no one would want. [[…]] Also, somewhere else in Slovenia, as far as Ljubljana's urgent is concerned, I think it will be the last one to be made. The last is because it stretches for too long, but it's quite different from all the E.R.s that are being made in Slovenia. So it will not be before Ptuj, and I hope that Ptuj will be as soon as possible, given that he still needs less money than just 3 million. The problem with us is that some others then stick to it, then it becomes more than it actually costs. That's just to support it. But the rest of me would suggest that you vote rather than comment because it is not right.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u238	On behalf of the delegation? On behalf of the Group United Left Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u239	Thank you for your word. In the Group of Members, the United Left will also support your amendment because it seems useful and necessary. Emergency relief centres are, of course, urgent and urgent, and it is not only about Ljubljana, as Jani said – we know the situation there, but in the countryside the emergency centres must also work, and we know that every minute is sometimes precious and goes for seconds. So let me be very brief: we think it's a good idea, it's only a matter of priority, how to redistribute this money. We support the United Left Amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u240	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, sir, no, sir. Please just sign up because there are more of you. [[…]] Explanation of the vote, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u241	Thank you, Mr. President. The coalition's reaction is clear, but I will, of course, explain the voice this time in my personal name. It's simple to be human and, of course, you can only hold back when you find out that last year it was in the avian area, that is, in an area that is supposed to be gravity at this new emergency centre, more than 44,000 emergency treatments. [[…]] Mr. President, do I have a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u242	You have the floor and I ask for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u243	Thank you, Mr. President, for making peace. 44 thousand and several more urgent treatments per year means, calculated over the thumb, 120 per day. It's a frantic number! Now let someone else calculate and say that the emergency center on Ptuj is not needed. This money could easily be found by optimisation in the healthcare system. On Monday, the parliamentary group and the leadership of New Slovenia were on a field visit, 20th in a row, in the autumn hospital. The new director gave us a good idea of how to save it. Unbelievable! The medal should be given to him and I think it would be good for him to come to the Ministry of Health to show how he can; as such, it is easy to save for an emergency centre in Ptuj, for example. I support this amendment because it is absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u244	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u245	Mr. President, thank you very much. Before I give my opinion, I predict support for this emergency centre on Ptuj. Perhaps it would take more time to explain at all, because some SMC Members do not separate emergency medical care from the emergency centre. So, emergency medical care is mostly linked to a health care home, is a public service where the first aid is concerned. However, the Emergency Centre is a specialized emergency centre, where it essentially goes through hospital care and has a whole range of experts in this area. It's a big difference, buddy. You're funny, I'm not funny. I think my colleague Horvath explained what 120 emergencies mean in some area a day, and I think we all understand what that real care means in the first 10, 15 minutes or within half an hour. I'm not going to be teaching medical matters right now, but it's still a matter of urgency in this area. I think Ptuj, the least he deserves is a center like this. The other thing, however, is that there is money in health, at least in my opinion, and there is still a lot to rationalise. Madam Minister, perhaps I would like to ask you if you have seen the arrivals of Mr Zemlarič's last month in the UKC – he did not go there as a patient. There are more arrivals of Mr Zemlarič to UKC, less money for such emergency centres. And then every operating table still costs another 50% more. I think we're gonna need to take a look under the fingertips where these reserves are and take advantage. And once again, as I said at the outset, I support this amendment presented by my colleague, Chuš, and I want the emergency centre on Ptuj to start building as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u246	As you know, Madam Minister, there is no way to answer the procedural question, so I ask you not to include the question to ministers in the explanation of vote for the second time. Mr Zvonko Lah has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u247	Thank you, President, for your word. I too will join and support this amendment, because I think there are over 120 000 people in the lower subterranean province, citizens tied to the General Hospital Ptuj. In addition to the need for this emergency centre, the Health Committee or General Hospital Ptuj has already submitted over EUR 100,000 for project documentation on the way to a construction permit. And on television, we also looked at the problems in the rural area with regard to the removal of these E.R.s or the lack of money for these E.R.s. I think so much money should be found to build this emergency center, because if it's somewhere else, it should be here on Ptuj. I think it's one of the most important things that every minute, you know more about the ones that you're at home in health, that you're experts in this area, how important every minute, how many lives can be saved with this. I think if we don't listen to it in this billion-dollar budget, in this kind of expenditure, then it's really a shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u248	Explanation of the vote on behalf of Mr Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u249	Thank you very much, Mr. President! I will gladly support the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party. I will support him in particular because I am convinced that my fellow Member, Andrej Chuš, who comes from Ptuj, is sufficiently well and well aware of the situation in this area. It is correct and responsible that my fellow Member, Andrej Chuš, has also tabled this amendment adopted by the Slovenian Democratic Party and proposed it for consideration by the National Assembly. I'm sure Ptuj needs an emergency center. This is agreed by the 18 mayors who belong to this region. Here are their statements and if the mayors don't know what that environment needs best – then who can decide what is needed and what is not? I think it's the mayors who are mercurial and most familiar with the problem that's taking place in that environment. This is one of the key reasons, and another 120 thousand people are connected to that environment and urgently need this emergency centre. They need it urgently, so we support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party and I personally. And one more thing, ladies and gentlemen! If I had not gone to the Ministry of Health and had been a consultant to Mr Janez Zemlaric, Mr Borut Miklavčič, then I am sure that in this country we could build the next ten emergency centres and there would be no problem. Once this issue is cleared up and put in place, health care in this country will begin to breathe. It's up to us to solve these problems. Thank God, I hope we've slowly come to this story so we can do this. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u250	Explanation of the vote on behalf of Mr Bojan Podkrodšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u251	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. I myself will support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party proposed by the MP from the ptujska work. Surely this is not about him, it is not about our parliamentary group, but it is about the whole assembly and we can now prove that we want and that we work for our citizens and citizens. Since I am a new Member, this afternoon, a colleague who is not currently in the Chamber, Head of the Desus Group, suspended the meeting twice. I expected good things to happen to Slovenians and Slovenians myself, but unfortunately I found out that it was just a media performance. The Slovenes and the Slovenians have nothing to do with this. If we work for the Slovenes and the Slovenians, then we can prove ourselves in this amendment and support it. It's not about Ptuj, it's about our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u252	Explanation of Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u253	Thank you for your word. We've already said we'll back this up. It almost feels a little below the level to explain why. Although I fear that the matter will not go through, because suddenly there is a large part of the coalition MPs and Members, the camera probably does not circle, it has to go urgently to meet — I suppose — physiological needs. In my family, I have a lot of people working in health care in Slovenia and somewhere else, and also on some other continent, and I have a woman in my immediate family who in Canada, for example, cared about their respect for health care. If we go to the Supervisor – what is officially seen – you will find that the public health contract is actually kept in check, let's say, and formally nine companies are five people or six. People who get to know this area a little bit say it's four hundred, five hundred million. In public contracts, others, computer equipment up, down, they say it's 300 to 400 million. Government, start working, please! We don't have helicopter rescue on the Styrian side either, and we pay the same health fees as the whole of Slovenia. Is that fair? Probably not. You know, we're talking here now, whether to give Ptuj an emergency center or not, for a while I even lived on Ptuj, and I wrote my doctorate in this oldest town. If we have twelve statistical regions, it seems to me that there could also be twelve emergency centres in this area with regard to optimisation of emergency centres. But I hope, you know, the government is yesterday. [[sign for the end of the debate]] I'm hoping the government will finally start working on this area, which I ordered earlier, because this is where hundreds of millions are hiding. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u254	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u255	Thank you for your word, chairman. Let me begin by saying that I am also coming from this area, from around Ptuj, and I certainly support this amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. The Ptuj Emergency Centre was promised in the past in 2003. As it has already been exposed here, it is a wider area, it is about 120,000 people and the municipalities of Lower Podravja, so we call that end, they are somehow around the need for this center truly united. Now, it is true that we have urgent medical care on Ptuj, but this is far from having anything similar to the emergency centre itself, which, of course, we urgently need. Why do we need him? In order to have modern conditions for emergency medical care, this means that we will have one-stop-shop, modern equipment and, above all, quicker treatment of patients themselves. Forty-four thousand emergency cases have been heard. I think that this number really says enough and somehow I really expect your support here, but, as I have already said, I absolutely support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u256	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u257	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister, president! Of course, I will be happy to support this good amendment, a useful amendment. In fact, in addition to the argument that all patients, regardless of where they live, where they live, where they have a permanent residence, are the same and must be treated equally and no one should be deprived for health reasons. Of course, I was also convinced by the signatures of the mayors we could have received and 14 mayors from this area and 18, I apologize, made a clear request or request, a respected government coalition. They've filed a motion to need an emergency center on Ptuj. And don't play with people's health under the illusion that there's no money! At Fakin, find him — 21 million reports this year! I mean, we're saying there's no money, and our health insurance company, which is also paid by Ptuj patients and by citizens and Ptuj citizens, says there's no money. I'll join those who say it's enough to say there's no money in the health system. That's enough. And to write only and only strategies and wave with them when we get out, these strategies in the field of the health system have already been great in the past, so a thorough reform is needed to ensure money as well. Such strategies, which are now promised, will not solve the problem of the Slovenian health system. Action is required. So I repeat, I will support this amendment and the start of the construction of the emergency centre on Ptuj. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u258	Explanation of the voice in his own name, Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u259	Thank you so much for saying that. I will support this amendment, as my colleagues have already announced. Why? Not only because when we talk about health, we are talking about a priority or an area that should be an absolute priority of any budget, because it is simply some civilisational gains, but also because we are dealing with some fundamental justice. Indeed, I myself have come to know the problem of the emergency centre on Ptuj in the past few months as a member of the Health Committee, and there I have had the opportunity to learn that this project has been bearded for a very long time. He was promised, and then he was placed in a network of emergency centers, and then he was gone again; in short, a whole story developed around it. I think it is high time for promises to come true, and this part of Slovenia gets the medical, medical capacities it deserves and needs. This amendment includes, weighs some two million euros and does not explain that there is no money for such an important thing as health, and this is the health of the entire region. If we think about it, if we just remember six months ago or even before the elections, there was a lot of talk about the centralisation of public procurement, about what terrible millions are going out here, but about this centralisation, and about catching these millions that are part of public finances, not hearing the spirit, but it is full of words and objections that these health facilities on Ptuj should actually be set up. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'm going to have another political stupidity, but I would like to point out that if each of the Members here — from the coalition and even the most — were to stand up for such a good thing as a colleague you hear about this emergency center, today would not have had such a draw. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u260	After explaining the explanation of the voice in the hairy name of Mr Andrej Chuš. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Allow me to give all colleagues who have explained their vote on this amendment, which we are making within the 2015 budget balance of €3 million for the emergency centre Ptuj, to thank you, of course. It seems to me that you have somehow listened to the needs of the local environment, of course also the wider region of Lower Podravje. Now a lot of people will say to me that I am here presenting something on the bluff for my needs, but you know, a lot of Members' group or I think almost everything, you have received in these days via e-mail 18 letters of support from the mayors of Lower Podravje. These are the municipalities of Ptuj, Hajdina, Ormož, Gorišnica, Destrnik, Juršinci, Trnovska vas, Žetale, Kidričovo, Podpodehnik, Majšperk, Videm, Zavrč, Centre ob Drava, Circulane, Dornava and Markovci. And you know, people will remember what we're talking about here today because this emergency center was promised to Ptuj. And the fact that it was not included in ten emergency centres, which will be built from European funds, is only the mockery and centralisation of Slovenia, which is already sufficiently centralised. I don't know what to do to convince you enough to accept this amendment. It's 3 million euros. In the final stage here, the mayors of various parties stepped together. The mayors of LDS, Independents, SD, SMC have no mayor, so we are not to blame, we are also the mayors of SLS, SDS and have stepped together, let us do something for the region, which we have been promised since 2003. Now I only submit to you this request: let us step together and spend EUR 3 million for the construction of the emergency centre of Ptuj and by doing something for the whole region of Lower Podravje. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u262	We're moving on to decision-making. On the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Investment Investment at secondary and tertiary level under number 1. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 27 votes against 48. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 48.]] Procedural? Your minute must pass. This time I can say that this amendment is not accepted. Now it has to work.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u263	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Let me give you a procedural proposal. Otherwise it will be very specific, I promise you, so you will not warn me. But look, today with these support from local communities, or the vote of coalition parties, namely the Social Democrats, the Democratic Party of the Retired, and the Mir Cerar Party, you did this to the Lower Podravje. [[…]] [[sound of paper scraping]] I hope you are aware of this, and I hope you will know this in all your future performances. I'd like to say this. It will be a very concrete procedural proposal. In these four constituencies where support comes from, Mira Cerar won 26%, 34%, 26% and 26%, and if you do so in the future, I am sure you will get a zero. However, my procedural proposal is that we continue the meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u264	No, no, that's not gonna mean I'm gonna give you a good warning about the abuse of procedural proposal, and that's a strong warning because you first misused the explanation of vote to answer, and then this. [[…]] Now, the time to, let's say, recruit for your vote was long before this session. [[adverts from benches]] Not in a closed room. Anyway, we're going to move on now. We continue with the amendment of the United Left Group to the same sub-programme under number 2. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group United Left Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u265	Thank you for your word. I'll introduce you to an amendment that probably won't be supported by the coalition, but hope dies last. In the United Left we propose to provide with an amendment the funds of the Department of Disabled Youth at the General Hospital Nova Gorica on Stara Gora. This is the only facility for the treatment and care of the most physically and mentally affected people who need 24-hour treatment and care. The problem is that children are now placed in 50-year-old pavilions made of asbestos. We all know how dangerous and harmful these asbestos plates are. While the sub-programme provides funds for the construction of emergency centres, including at the General Hospital Nova Gorica, there is no funding for the construction of Stara Gora. But the plans are long overdue, and a donor company has also been set up, and this is an old debt of the country that could have already been fulfilled, at least now that the economic situation is improving. However, the funds are being reduced in that part of the budget of the Ministry of Defence, which does not affect the defence capacity of the State. This sub-programme provides for the prioritisation of the assets of the units envisaged to operate in international operations and in NATO response forces. In reality, with our proposal, we are only reducing these funds by EUR 600,000. The dilemma between Nate's seat and the hospital in Stara Gora probably shouldn't be at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u266	We are moving on to an explanation of vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u267	Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the New Slovenia Group we will support the proposed amendment of the United Left. I myself know the case, he is also known by a fellow social democrat, and for this money, EUR 600,000, it is worth supporting this amendment, because there is a truly disabled youth, disabled children, unfortunately affected children, and this is the only centre in Goriška or in the wider area. If we want something good to the children of this environment, from the Primorska region, then I suggest that this amendment, I do not invite you, I suggest, and we do so in New Slovenia on good faith so that I do not receive the warning that this will be supported. I'll back the amendment myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u268	Is there any other explanation for the voice? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Group of Members, Mr Branko Zorman.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u269	President, thank you for your word. If anyone in this room is 90 of us for making this center in Stara Gora, I'm the first one to do it of all of us 90. But! I know that the Ministry is preparing a project related to this Stara Gora, a reconstruction or a new establishment of this centre. However, in 2015 there is no means of not going there again. I believe that this is one of the first priorities of the Ministry of Health, and I believe that in 2016 not only the project will be ready, but it has already been implemented. However, we cannot support this amendment because, as it is said, there are no funds for this purpose in 2015. But I believe they will be in 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u270	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Alliance of Mags. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u271	Thank you very much. We will also be happy to support this amendment in our Group of Members. Especially because I come from this end alone and I know this hospital well, I am sure, and we are all convinced that this is absolutely necessary, and so please also everything or – I must not call – but I suggest, like my colleague, that we support this amendment. I am sure that this money, this 600,000 euro in 2015 as well, is to be obtained from any item. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u272	We have ended with explanations of vote, so we can vote on the amendment of the United Left Group to the same sub-programme as before, i.e. under number 2. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 48. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budget user 3330 of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport and to decide on the amendments tabled to two sub-programmes in this budget user. First of all, we are moving to the sub-programme Research programmes and projects. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors - Christian Democrats to this sub-programme under number 1. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Nova Slovenija Group - Christian Democrats Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u273	Thank you, Mr. President. The Group of Members has proposed this amendment and it is perfectly logical that we will also support it. We've given our word of hope, but we're not afraid yet. We will give our fear glory when we truly decide that we truly want to become a knowledge society. We don't have oil wells, we don't have rich gold mines, we don't have silver, we don't have coal and so on. We do, however, believe in New Slovenia, good people, that we have a lot of knowledge that can implement projects and projects with their knowledge that can be used in the Slovenian economy. Until this decision is made to take at least a small step for these pee-pee two million, at least a small step in the direction of the knowledge society, we will continue to drip on the ground until then. Other countries simply outrun us on the left and on the right, but with us we simply cannot decide which direction to go, we turn in a circle. Those who have knowledge who want to do something are simply fleeing Slovenia. Let's keep them at home and support this amendment, I suggest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u274	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Group Mrs Irena Kotnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u275	Thank you for your word. Research programmes and projects aimed at financing core and applied research projects and programmes are planned to a sufficient extent and through the implementation of all activities. The proposed amendment provides for a reduction of the sub-programme, stressing that it interferes with the means of payment of international obligations. For these reasons, the proposed amendment will not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u276	Can we move on to a decision? Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u277	Thank you very much, Mr President! I'm going to support the amendment, because this amendment is actually a tablet or a brain drain injection. You know, the knowledge that Slovenian youth, young people can have, is something that no one can take away from you. They can take away your car. They can take everything from us. Unfortunately, you want to take this – financial resources for knowledge and development. This is why we are proposing this amendment, and also because I want Slovenian society to be an advanced society, a developing society, a knowledge society. That is why I want this amendment to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u278	We're moving on to decision-making. We decide on the amendment of the Nova Slovenija Group on the sub-programme Research programmes and projects under number one. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present. There were 20 votes in favour and 50 against. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to the same sub-programme, under number two. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u279	Thank you so much for saying that. Without the promotion of science and research, there is no development. Poor research means poor development and poor development means a poor future. Man would expect it to be clear that this is self-evident; but look at the fraction, it's obviously not so! Why? The funds for research programmes and projects are being reduced by the Government's proposal for a good seven-and-a-half million in this budget, which also appears to be endorsed by the coalition. In the Joint Left Group, we want this, but let's say, to fix it, to at least some extent, and we suggest that science, research, development be supported by additional funding. Further research does not only have a direct impact on the issue of the economy, but it is also very important from the point of view of social progress, as it brings scientific achievements to other areas that serve the quality of human beings, such as health needs, so that the pressing environmental problems, which will continue to grow in the future, are not even mentioned. We have been facing more and more in recent years also the so-called brain drain phenomenon. In part, we can also help by supporting this particular item to support research to support development. In the United Left we have tabled this amendment, we will support it, we hope that it will sit in this room as many Members as possible and Members who will support it with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u280	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Group Mrs Irena Kotnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u281	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Within the framework of the budget rebalancing, research programmes and projects aimed at financing core and applied research projects are planned to a sufficient extent and to carry out all activities. The proposed amendment, however, provides for a reduction of the sub-programme for information and promotion activities at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. It is not possible to reduce the proposed scope of these funds. For these reasons, we do not support the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u282	Explanation of the vote on behalf of Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u283	Thank you for your word. He's already told his colleague how I'm going to vote. I've been listening for over half a year here about the knowledge society, and I'm surprised the coalition didn't table an amendment and find 25 million for this item. Of course, I'd like to get out of Nate personally, and I'd rather turn that money into science. It's a question of whether we're going to be a land of business or a land of science. I won't support him just because I'm 15319, those in the research register know what that means. "To a sufficient extent," you said a colleague from the SMC; I don't know if you're in a research register or not, but a few of the Essexs are scientists like me, like the President. It seems to me that this mockery is from another part of Slovenian society, but it is obvious that I will paraphrase a colleague of the president in part, in the rebalancing also a hidden ideology; and this is the ideology of some Slovenia, that, as we say in Styria, we will work for some small pennies, who will be able, but will go out. But I want our youth to go out even more, to get educated, to get new knowledge and come back. I am very sad that this proposal will probably not go through, and it saddens me that there is at least one zero left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u284	Explanation of the voice in his own name, Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u285	Thank you very much. The claim that these activities are financed and designed to a large extent is essentially more relevant to the fact that such a declaration has been made by the mother herself than the mother herself before us. Research projects – I did not mention earlier in the explanation of the Group's position – both in basic and in applied research are a condition for creating some economic foundation, some developmental perspective based on productivity and not on paying for cutting and working rights of pliers on every corner, on every corner, such as our development perspective at this point. In short, it is based on reduced labour costs. As far as the item from which we are taking funds is concerned, our amendment is useful at both points; at this point it is positive that it adds resources to research – what I have just mentioned – and is also useful in terms of the item from which it takes it. In fact, we are talking about an item that will in fact not lead to any serious effects of greenfield investments, this item is simply about promoting privatisation or promoting the sale of our companies. If we get this item to nothing, there will be no more damage, but if we add resources to this account to the research, we are twice as good. Thank you. That is why I will also vote in person for this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u286	We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the United Left Group to the sub-programme Research programmes and projects under number 2. We're voting. He's here. [[…]] I ask for peace in the hall until I give the word to no one, please don't speak. That's the rules of procedure. There are 77 Members and Members present. There were 16 votes in favour, 51 against. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme Implementation of primary school programmes. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to this sub-programme under number one. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors of the Alliance, Mr Peter Wilphan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u287	Thank you for your word. Well, in our parliamentary group, we will of course support this amendment. We will support it in order to ensure that children with special needs or children with decisions continue to have educational assistance or additional professional assistance. We will support it so that all children can attend school in nature, not just the children of parents who will be able to afford it, and we will support it so that they can continue to carry out various and diverse activities of interest in schools. When the Minister announced this measure on behalf of the Government also in this segment, this caused great indignation in Slovenia – justifiably. And it's as wide as the professional public, teachers, unions and, of course, the parents and guardians of these children. Then, while the Government changed rhetoric a little bit, it began to talk about that everything was not so black that it would probably not come to the end of this aid, that they were working on talking, negotiating within the government, outside the government, to think about it and so on. That's all nice and all right, we can believe that, of course, or not. And I'm more inclined to do the other one. Why? Because we have a solution here today; we have an amendment that solves this problem. And if we vote for this amendment today, we will solve this problem today, here and now, or in a few minutes, of course, if, as I said, we vote in favour. This is, of course, why we will support and vote in favour of this amendment in our parliamentary group. Because I don't want to be too long, because I told you in the debate yesterday, I think enough, I'm going to end up like I did yesterday. As in our Group of Members, we still believe that Slovenia is still so social, compassionate, solidarity and humane. These are four things that no one can take from us, not the European Commission, not the European Central Bank, not a threesome, and of course not a crisis, even though it would be ten times worse than the current one. Of course, colleagues and colleagues, I ask you not to take this for ourselves here today because of the fights of €4 million in the approximately 9 billion budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u288	We're moving on to decision-making. [[…]] Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Group Mrs Irena Kotnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u289	President, thank you for your word. With the 2015 budget rebalancing, the implementation of primary school programmes increases spending rights by €13.9 million according to the 2015 budget adopted. In doing so, it is envisaged, within the framework of the planned resources, that the funds will be sufficient to meet the legal obligations. The planned funds thus allow for the smooth implementation of primary education programmes with a deliberate rationalisation, the organisation of teaching permitted by the applicable standards and standards. In view of the excruciating debate so far on the learning aid to which the amendment relates, I would just like to point out once again that learning aid for children with special needs is not terminated or only its implementation is changing. In view of this, we do not support the proposed amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u290	We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Alliance's Group to the sub-programme Implementation of primary school programmes under number one. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present. There were 28 votes in favour and 45 against. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the same sub-programme under number two. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group Mrs Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u291	Thank you very much. We know the result, we know the explanation. A colleague from SMC read the government’s explanation — that is, nothing new. I will say this: everyone who supports public education, who has also tabled a proposal to amend the Constitution to protect public education, believe or at least hope that you will support this amendment, which also essentially protects public education. You may also support 4 000 463 signed under the petition of Mrs Bojana Potočnik, who advocates further co-financing of learning aid. You may also support the SWITZ, with which you are constantly negotiating, as well as the signatures of 36 thousand 268 teachers and others who have signed this, and you will stop deceiving the public in essence to finance learning aid by financing the marriage obligations of these 13 or the poor 14 million. Learning aid is not a legal obligation, it is not defined in the ZOFI and you change the ZOFI so that you can also provide these funds in this balance. The minister literally asked for this amendment, and in January, the coalition proposed to find the Ministry or Government – on the Education Committee, it proposed that the Government and the Ministry find the money for it. Well, when the Minister announced yesterday that she would still finance school, school in nature and so on, there had already started to rustle among teachers – and I will not say immediately from unofficial sources, but from official sources – that the material costs for primary school would be reduced to this account and that this budget would go all the way to financing the school's teaching aid in nature, etc. However, you must also be aware of what I have already said about the fact that the municipalities also issue conclusions that they will not co-finance more learning aid because the money has been taken away from the municipalities. To say that it will be financed makes no sense, as I stress once again, teaching aid is not legally binding nor is it misleading teachers to have it settled or not to quit. Of course it doesn't. Teachers will do it for free. They're also doing internships for free, volunteering, still. So, of course, I ask for support from at least those who support public education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u292	We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to the sub-programme Implementation of primary school programmes under number 2. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 26 votes against 48. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Procedural? Procedurally, Mr. Peter Wilphan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u293	Thank you for your word, Madam President! On the basis of Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, I request a 45-minute recess to coordinate and agree on the next set of amendments and decisions in the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u294	We only have one more amendment. Explains have priority 45 minutes ago. So there'll be no explanation for the last one. [[…]] Anyone else want to explain the following? Then I'll be in the squad for 45 minutes. No, no, no! Wait, wait. We'll read it first, and we'll decide later. But first, we're going to do the explanations for the vote because they have a head start 45 minutes ago. I inform you, first of all, that the amendment of the United Left Group to the Sub-programme Food of Students, Students and Students has been withdrawn, so we have only one amendment left, which is on the budget user 3331, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Youth, where we decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Youth Programme. I'm opening the door here to explain my voice first. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group, Mr Andrej Chuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u295	Thank you very much, Mr. President. What else am I supposed to say today, anyway? The best would be nothing – the MPs of the coalition say. But given how the meeting of the National Assembly is taking place today, and even this adoption of the budget balance, I am asking myself who we are. It's best that you put together your own balance, shut yourself down, us, I don't know, take us out, get us out of here, because it seems like we're doing our best. If these are new ethical criteria and standards, then I really don't know where Slovenia is today. It's just over my thumb to say no to anything the opposition proposes. Today, however, it seems that all the amendments proposed by the opposition were at least worth considering. But who are we again, because you are the one who knows everything, you are ethical, moral, clean; who are we to even hope to discuss it? Is that right?Oh, my God! Let me move on to the amendment. This amendment is just one principle: whether we will continue to give 500 000 euros for good and rich frequentations, full of lobsters, foams, caviar or we will spend 500 000 euros on young people's policies, today you are a little more present than the last time, probably because the President of the National Assembly called a meeting at 4:00, and somehow you have been time-consuming, and this coalition roller must go through because we all understand that. [[…]] But look, the Youth Council of Slovenia is a grassroots youth organization, which includes the youth of the Social Democrats, the Slovenian Democratic Party, the Mir Cerar Party unfortunately does not have a teenager, and this is also known in their policies and Desus has a youth, which we must admit to them. With this amendment, we want to spend 500 000 euros on youth policy-making. You all know that the problem of young people today escalates, it is increasingly present in society. We believe that the youth sector in Slovenia is undernourished, is not sufficiently recognised and with these 500 000 euros, without sharing them on the tenders, but would help to "policy making" as Mrs Simona Kustec Lipicer would say, thus designing policies that will improve the problem of employment, scholarship, education and formation, in the final stage of youth health. The problem of young people is not an ideological theme, it is not a right, it is not a left, it is a youth and I think that at least at this point the entire National Assembly should unite, all 90 step together and finally in the last few years give at least one recognition to young people. Well, of course we'll support [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u296	I think I'll give you a second warning. You have another reminder, and this is also the last reminder I intend to give you. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Nova Slovenija Group, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u297	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Minister, Minister, other representatives of the Government! We're at the last amendment, I think there were about 40, mostly all of them, except for one letter from the opposition. This last one too, New Slovenia - Christian Democrats will be supported. It's about programs for young people. Young people, at least we are so sure, we are somehow neglecting all our debates and so much more when some euro needs to be spent on young people. We are deeply concerned, although this is not the concrete content of this amendment, we are deeply concerned, despite the fact that the European Union has individual instruments and very strong support with billions of euros, such as the Youth Guarantee, which increases the number of unemployed young people in Slovenia from March 2013 to January 2015 by more than 3 000 170. We, my dear colleagues, will not be offended if you overstep this amendment. In some ways, too, when you have a well-respected coalition, you will also reject this amendment of the opposition, and in some ways, unfortunately, an even higher wall will be built and it will be difficult to step over this wall and it will be difficult to apply what we all say and what we want in, New Slovenia – let us step together. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u298	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the United Left Group, Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u299	Thank you very much. In the United Left we will, of course, support this amendment. However, I can say that, in principle, it should be considered that in the field of 'policy making', as far as young people are concerned, we would really not need additional resources. Unfortunately, that's not the reality. As we can see, after half a year of this government we can still deal with unpaid traineeships, under the same minister who was already in this position in the previous government. So it is more than obvious that these funds are needed for these funds to be required in blood. However, if they come from an item such as the implementation of protocol events, from an item financed by a young gentleman, lobsters and so on, this money is spent twice. As a result, the Government will not suffer the functionality of the budget, which is why it will not suffer the ideological essence of the budget, which is important to many here. Nothing but naked luxury – it will not really suffer, but it can gain a lot of youth, as far as developing the capacity of their political participation is concerned, as far as developing the capacity of political pressure is concerned, but it can lead to an end to unpaid traineeships, because the ministry will not have them in itself for a short time. In the United Left we will support this amendment. I also hope there's someone else besides the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u300	Explanation of the vote on your own behalf, sir - you will apply. I'm asking you to sign up. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mr — Excuse me, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u301	Thank you. A comrade would be quite satisfactory. Since I am young, of course I will support this amendment. Of course, I absolutely disagree with the fact that this is not an ideological question. Yes, but these few pennies will allow young people to develop their ideologies and to sweep us out of Parliament over time. If we look at it, the amendment was proposed by the opposition, and the coalition hit us with all the amendments. We were so fair, except for ZaAB, who got angry that we voted for your amendment, which was a mistake – for the second time. Look, you've run us over, and you're gonna be run over by time, and I hope the young people go to the polls more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u302	Explanation of the vote on behalf of Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u303	Thank you, President. Colleagues, colleagues! I myself will support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. I will support it because I want to follow the coalition treaty even though I am not a member of the coalition with half a million euros more for youth policies. It says you will advocate more accessible kindergartens, voucher systems, housing cooperatives, favourable loans, human resources scholarships, job records, career incubators and so on. All of this costs more than the 500 000 euros we are proposing. I hope that by supporting this amendment you will give at least some signal to young people to support these policies. Last but not least, the Slovenian Youth Council, whose president, by the way, is a member of the Social Democrats, the former secretary of their youth. I hope you'll at least support yours. Now I'm going to give you this as an argument because I know it counts very much. I will support this amendment, but I can only say about it before; I hope that Comrade Chuš does not worry because he has already received another warning. You know, it's better to get two reminders than to be the President of the National Assembly and you're the Constitutional Court to call off the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u304	Yes, because I can't do anything else because I can't argue, but I can give a reminder because of the abuse of explanations of voice in my own name for things that aren't connected to at least what's on the agenda. You have a procedural right, Mr. Jean-Mahnič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u305	Thank you, President. I would only ask you to tell me what was not the truth in my speech, or what was the untruth, or whether I did not accidentally identify myself, and in what part I did not speak about what the amendment was saying. Please, if you can at least explain this to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u306	Your motion for action has been rejected. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mrs Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u307	Thank you very much. I'll support the amendment. Many amendments today, including these, have somehow followed the conclusions of the committees, the Education Committee, the Labour Committee, the Health Committee and so on. All these decisions adopted by the committees have been proposed by a coalition that is now mocking when we explain the votes and some, if any, because it makes no sense what you are saying. Today you have shown in essence that you are a real voting machine, nor have you thought with your own head in some, but if you are, you have to press "against". In fact, you have also voted against the amendments concerning your regions concerning your area, you have rejected a number of petitions, many mayors and this amendment could, in fact, – uglyly – close the borders for young people to stay at home. This way we will still look over there; in Austria, if you go — many of our young Slovenians are working over and there will be more. So this money, which is now intended for young people with this amendment, I don't think it's a big deal; but it's clear, you're determined to keep voting, so let's keep voting, as you have agreed – then at least stay principled here! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u308	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u309	Dear colleagues, distinguished president, minister! I will support the proposed amendment, because we Christian Democrats are advocates of young people in this National Assembly, unlike other interest groups, sent groups in the National Assembly, who initially took up 45 minutes of time and so on. It is also said that the voice of the young people in the National Assembly should be heard with this amendment — if the voices of the older ones were heard in the first part. I also feel sorry for those young ones — where is they? I'm looking for the face of my colleague Kamal, who we've actually been through youth policy together when he was still president of the Slovenian Youth Council. Kamal, we have an opportunity here today with the amendment. Look! Do you know how happy she would have been five years ago if we had such an amendment on the table? And that's why I'm gonna back it up. Now I've made some use of it, but for a good atmosphere, Kamal is a good friend of mine and he also understands this implementation. So this amendment is in favour of a very good course in our future. And where it is taken — on an item that is essentially a luxury! We don't even take the army here, because we usually say if we don't have anywhere to take, "Where are we going to take -- the armies," we say. Where are we taking or from? Food, drinks and so on. So if we want the positive implementation of youth policy, youth dialogue, cultural dialogue and also intergenerational cooperation, then let us support this amendment. I'll do it, I hope so, and so will my friend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u310	Explanation of the vote in his own name, Mr Andrej Chuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u311	This time, on my own behalf, probably last night, given the disapproval of some members of the coalition, I will no longer challenge you, Mr President. Today is the first time I've ever received a warning, two or so. This will make me a better, more exemplary Member of Parliament. However, I would like to say that immediately after the parliamentary elections on 13 July, at the request of the SDS Group, we called for an urgent meeting of the Education, Sport and Youth Chamber, where we also agreed with the support of all parties — not the opposition, but also the coalition — to support the decision by which we impose on the Ministry of Education, of course, to report to us, for half a year, on the implementation of the National Youth Programme, and on the other hand, we all agreed that the funds we have earmarked to implement this strategy are too small or small. In fact, the resolution is about that much paper and when it was adopted in the National Assembly, this will be recalled by some former Members, there was not a single euro of financial impact when we adopted this strategy, and we were also in the opposition in the Slovenian Democratic Party and we supported it because we said that it was a good strategy and we need concrete means to be able to create a policy at youth level. The fact that we are right has further convinced me by the unanimous support of the very diverse opposition in the National Assembly and, we can say, the traditional silence of members of the coalition. I really don't know why we shouldn't finally vote on something in our conscience, in our own mind, but always just follow this roller. Once again, it seems unnecessary for us to have such meetings of the National Assembly. As it is said, I myself will support this amendment and somehow express my conviction that it will be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u312	Since the explanations of vote have been exhausted on their own behalf and the conditions for the suspension of the meeting referred to in Article 73 of the Rules of Procedure have not been met, we will now decide. Procedurally, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u313	President, you know well that I am present in the Chamber and as the leader of the Group of Members, I have authorized a Member and we could do so by the Rules of Procedure, the problem would be if I were not present. Well, since you pointed out this business provision, your colleague warned you about this, now I, as head of the parliamentary group, demand 45 minutes from the Rules of Procedure, 73rd paragraph, a break of 45 hours so that we can decide [[…]] [[advertising in the hall]] minutes – excuse me – that we can decide on further procedures. [[…]] Please, if we respect the rules of procedure and stop playing games that you are now using.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u314	This is not a game called respect for the rules of procedure. I'll follow your proposal, so I'll spend 45 minutes for all Members, except for you for 45 hours. We'll pick it up at 9:45.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u315	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. Does the proposer want a 45-minute break? Please, Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u316	Thank you very much, President! I came for yours a little early, but... See, today we have been monitoring the meeting and will continue, a budget session where 40 amendments have been tabled. Only one amendment, only one amendment, has been adopted by coalition parties and this is due to an alleged technical error. This technical error, of course, leads us to the fact that we have actually come to a stage where we simply no longer have a hearing for individual questions. I recall that, at the beginning of the term of office, one of the members of the largest party said: "The time has come when the executive power will do its work, and the legislative authority of course will do its work." Today we find that this is not the case. In fact, the government has informed us what the budget is and really the machinery is running, and that is what needs to be adopted. Therefore, we simply do not intend to participate in this farce anymore, especially because this coalition has made it very clear at which points it will no longer have a hearing. Thank you very much. Therefore, on behalf of the Group of Members, of course, I inform you, President, that we are declaring obstruction in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u317	Peace, please. So, we move on to the point where we stayed. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Youth Programme sub-programme. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 47. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. This concludes our decision on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the Proposal for a full budget rebalancing. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 19. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 19.]] I note that the specific part of the proposal is fully adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the Plan of Programme Development. We're voting. 69 Members and Members are present. There were 50 votes in favour and 19 against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 19.]] We have completed our decision-making on individual parts of the Draft Budget Balance. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 162 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask the representative of the Government whether the proposal for a state budget rebalancing on revenue and expenditure is harmonised. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Bojan Pogačar, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u318	Thank you for your word. No, due to the adoption of the amendment to the specific part of the 2015 budget balance proposal, the budget is not harmonised. A harmonisation amendment should therefore be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u319	On the basis of the Government's opinion, I note that the proposal for a state budget rebalancing is not harmonised. By 22.20 the government should prepare an amendment to harmonise the Draft State Budget Balance. Until the amendment of the Government, a mother's working body will also be identified. I'm breaking this agenda. I inform the members and members of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy that a meeting of the Committee will begin in thirty minutes in the large lounge. I'm adjourning the 9th Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly, which we'll continue at 10:35 p.m., that's 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u320	Dear Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the end of the 1st item of the agenda, this is by addressing and voting on the Government's amendment to harmonise the proposal for a state budget rebalancing for 2015. Would you like a word from the government?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u321	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u322	Thank you. Does the representative of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy want to say that he has addressed the harmonisation amendment?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u323	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u324	Then, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u325	The Committee adopted the harmonisation amendment, as proposed by the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u326	Thank you. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Yeah. Explanation No. [[…]] The text is requested by the representative of the United Left Luka Mesec, please. He doesn't want to. Then I note that none of the representatives of the parliamentary groups wants a word at this point, so I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the amendment to harmonise the proposal for a state budget rebalancing. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. There were 48 votes in favour and 14 against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015 as a whole. Explanation of vote in [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] [[…]] Procedurally, Mr. Mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u327	Mr President, thank you for the floor. We are ahead of the most important document of the State of the Republic of Slovenia and I do not see any ministers and even less the President of the Government. I think this shows the attitude of this coalition, this current government, and I am sure that it is only bad citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. It is now clear that the Secretary of State has said that the greatest success of this budget is that you are all equally dissatisfied. This is not my problem if the coalition is unhappy and this is a problem for the Republic of Slovenia, for the economy, for the social sector, for education, for health care and, last but not least, for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Unfortunately, there's not a single minister and a president of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u328	A procedural proposal, which was not a procedural proposal, was adopted. Now, I see there's no explanation for the voice? [[…]] Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Nova Slovenija Group, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u329	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable representatives of the government, dear colleagues and colleagues! It is probably clear to everyone that we will vote against the balance with our colleague Vrtovec, that is clear from our discussions. We will vote against it because in Novi Slovenija we expected that after six months of the government of the Mira Cerar coalition, the new economic policy of the Republic of Slovenia will only be reflected somehow. This is not, and we are sure, and we believe that even in 2016 it will not, will not. Slovenia needs a new economic policy, otherwise it will be on the spot, as it has been for the past 5 years, even in 2015 and beyond. Slovenia needs a new business model and new economic policies, colleagues and colleagues, it will not be without the burden of the economy – both tax and bureaucratic – and it will not be without the internationalisation of the Slovenian economy. Now I will not speak in the first person of the crowd, but in a slightly different way; what you represented today by some of the parliamentary groups, therefore, was a theater, interruptions for the first time, for the second time, for the third time. Look, it bothers me, us Christian Democrats. What do you think today, colleagues and colleagues, of the 120 thousand unemployed and every day more unemployed young people watching these plays here in this house of democracy? What do they think? Today I am ashamed to go home, there, to that extreme eastern region, to Ukraine. I'm ashamed! Where 20% of registered unemployment, people don't hope out, they lock themselves in their homes. When will a new policy start in this country?Oh, my God! One more thing, and I'm putting an end to it, and I'm not answering today. In my opinion and the conviction of the Christian Democrats, the right – this is for the weekend – to think about, in our opinion, the right to participate in economic growth in our country has already been exploited, already consumed. In the crisis, we have enjoyed a huge debt, with which we have reduced ourselves, to ease participation in the consequences of the crisis. So we can't grow, we can't consume again. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Eurostat is said to be deflationary in the euro area, which was one of the ECB's arguments for quantitative release. Our Buying Power Is Unchanged [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u330	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Group, Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u331	Your Honor! In the SMC Group, we will, of course, support the 2015 budget rebalancing, because we understand it as an electoral commitment that we have given to our people, our electorate with the aim of ensuring that the conditions are finally restored for this country to stand on its feet and that it will start to work on its progress, which it undisputedly deserves with knowledge and its work. We see this balance as a great compromise and the most optimal compromise that could be achieved under the given circumstances. A lot of effort, a lot of effort, and denials of dissatisfaction are linked to the adoption of this budget balance. But at the end of the dialogue, we found an agreement; a negotiated solution that is not only of a political nature but, above all, of a broader, social, social nature. You know that in the framework of an agreement or a rebalancing, agreements have been signed both at the level of social work and with the municipalities, and this is proof that our country, our society, is able to look for ways for its better tomorrow to get on its feet, in this particular case of rebalancing, to stabilise the public financial situation, to find new forms, more efficient, more optimal governance with the country, together with in particular the management work of this country. And we believe this will work. We believe that this support for the rebalancing is a responsible decision that ensures the necessary calming of the political, social and economic situation in our country. It represents stability, which is a prerequisite for change against a better tomorrow, for all, for the path of progress for all, for new opportunities, for people, the economy and the country.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u332	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Desus Group, Mr Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u333	Thank you very much, President. Colleagues and colleagues! I must say that in the Desus Group we are very pleased that, however, or that it will be under the roof of the budget rebalancing for this year. Of course, I must admit that it took quite some effort, a little effort, a little coordination, to achieve the goal. I am pleased to say that after more than five years, however, we have reached the point where pensions for all pensioners will also begin to be valorised; not to increase, but to coordinate. Finally, we have reached this point where the material and social situation of pensioners can also begin to improve. I think that today's budget or a rebalancing of success is both for the coalition, but I want the implementation of this budget to be a success for the whole of Slovenia, and especially for its citizens and citizens. Of course, the budget as such is not ideal, it cannot be ideal, we are under a 3% deficit pressure and, of course, efforts were needed to somehow integrate ourselves into budget deficits. I think that we have managed to prepare these gabarits, to frame ourselves, but now we have a hard job ahead of us in Parliament, especially the Government, from which we expect all together a lot of concrete activities, concrete actions. And if it was possible to start the operation of this coalition, if you want, or if the government is a bit shaken up, I believe that the glass will continue to be inconveniently better, faster, more efficient. Of course, I want a constructive dialogue with the opposition, personally and also with Desus. On the basis of all this, I believe that we will all succeed together and that we will be able to talk in a more pleasant atmosphere, in a more pleasant atmosphere when we adopt the budget for the coming years. I sincerely thank all those who have participated in the preparation of this budget, and especially on this occasion, once again, I would like to thank the so-called social bloc, our partners, the Social Democrats, including the United Left, who have supported us as much as possible in these efforts for the rights of pensioners, but, of course, also thank the President of the Government and the coalition partner of SMC, from whom we have received assurances today that pensions are being recollected for a long time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u334	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the United Left Group Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u335	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. At the same time, I thank you for the excellent starting point for criticism of this budget, which you have presented earlier. Indeed, this budget needs to be received through the ideology that embodies it. The first point of this ideology is, the budget deficit needs to be reduced and this is what this budget does in a very specific way. On the revenue side, he will do nothing, so there will be no new taxes for the rich, no new taxes on luxury, no new taxes on capital, even though these are half as low as the comparable countries of the European Union. That's why they're gonna cut on the spending side. So, in particular, 30 million less scholarships, 93 million unemployment benefits and the further degradation of the social state and the rights that citizens of this country still have. Prime Minister Miro Cerar excuses such policies with domestic logic. So the country, as a household, has to save in the crisis. But of course that's just an excuse. The aim of these policies is not to get us out of the crisis, but also the results of the last six years show that such policies have not solved the crisis, but have deepened it, but the purpose is completely different. In fact, as Matjaž Hanžek rightly warned yesterday, we will be implementing exactly the same policies in the economic times, taking the poor and giving to the rich, only that there will be no excuse for domestic logic, but an excuse will be a fiscal rule. Because the purpose of these policies is to redistribute wealth from the poor to the rich. And the excuse for these policies invented by economists is the so-called economy of supply. Which means, if we take the poor, give the rich, and the capital will now turn this excess income into investment, and the investments will become new jobs tomorrow, and at the end of the day we will all be richer. But once again, the consequences could not be further from these expectations. If we just look at Europe. Europe was a region that had a second. World War II to 3% unemployment. Today, unemployment is on average 11.5%, in some countries already 25% and more. It is said that 1 out of every 4 nationals of some countries is unemployed. 20% of people or 1 out of every 5 European are at social risk today. My generation, and the young generation is the first generation after World War II to live worse than their parents; it has no jobs, no housing, no property. On the other hand, 1% of the richest, according to this year's conference in Davos, already own 50% of the world's wealth. How did we come to this state? Respected and respected, just with the budgets we have before us! With budgets that take on the poor and give to the rich; with budgets that follow the principles – not Robin Hood, as if socialist or social-democratic policies, but with neoliberal anti-hero Superhik and such policies in the United Left, we cannot and will not support.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u336	Explanation of the vote of the SD Group of Members, Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u337	Thank you very much. First, let me say that for the Social Democrats, the balance is not an agenda of individual interests but of measures. You know, the balance is not the property of one political party, the balance is not the property of one minister, one individual Member, but it is a matter of reality, and above all it is the future of our country that we want to take this country to. About the balance, my dears, we can't talk in a way like it's a menu that anyone could take from him what suits him, and let go of what doesn't suit him. Rebalans are simply not allowed to be carried out in this way. Social Democrats will therefore not be doing so, in this way. We will, of course, support this rebalancing, knowing that we must in our own species in particular restore the substance, what the coalition treaty means. However, in a way that we will not only expose our political parties for promotion. The balance is reality and the balance is the future where we want to take this country. Social Democrats will support the rebalancing with the hope that this will be one of the last real savings that will give this Slovenia a better future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u338	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group? In your own name? In his own name, Mr. Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u339	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will not support this budget or the budget rebalancing, because I am sure and agree with those who claim that nothing will change for a small person in this country with this budget. Seriously, nothing at all! The pensioners will still have 200, 300 and I do not know how many euros of pension. The minimum wage will still be where it was, there will still be 60- or more percent of people on the poverty line, we will still have almost 125,000 unemployed, etc. And we will still have this problem that nothing or nothing will happen in the field of the economy in this direction, which would provide a basis for us to say that the economy in this country could come to life and that we could start reducing unemployment and everything that is connected to it. If we have such a budget balance ahead of us, then it is not possible to expect all the Members of Parliament in this House to support such a budget rebalancing. That's why I can't personally support him. I would, of course, support him, over and over again, when I felt that the proposer who proposed, namely the Government or coalition, this budget, the rebalancing of this budget, from which it would be possible for those people who are at the bottom of this country to change anything important for the benefit of these people. This is not the result of this budget rebalancing, so I will vote against this budget rebalancing.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u340	Explanation of the vote on behalf of Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u341	Thank you for your word. The leader of the largest coalition party said that "this budget is the optimal compromise" and that, I quote, "the calming of the political, economic and social situation". The leader of the SD Group said that "not the property of one political party" and the third, and a third, the coalition member spoke about the social bloc. Now I don't know, obviously I haven't been in the same universe with these people in the last month, let alone the same byte. If this budget were the optimal compromise, then at least half of it would have been accepted; if the coalition agreement were in force, at least half of it would have been accepted. Journalist Jager wrote nicely in the Evening after the elections that in Slovenia the coalition treaties are "bull shit" – I apologize, the president. You sign them, and somehow you forget about them. True, many pensioners live below the poverty threshold, half there, but if this social bloc had really worked before, probably the United Left would never have come to Parliament, and if this social bloc really existed, at least half of these amendments would have been supported. Of course, for such a budget, I cannot vote in favour. Today, Mr Cerar said that this cavern that happened between Desus and the SMC when I had security guards there, I almost couldn't go to the bathroom from the office, is an agreement. It seems to me that this budget as a whole is one big misunderstanding that this budget is not a new policy or a new story, is just some indexing down, not ambitious [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u342	Please, that's enough. Everything similar to the explanation of the voice was half a sentence. Everything else was controversial, and the controversy is not a place in the explanation of the voice, which is why I am giving you a reminder. Explanations — that is, explanations for the voice. Please sign up. Explanation of the vote, Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u343	Dear colleagues, for a moment. I will vote against the proposed budget rebalancing for one reason and the only reason: because it is not development-oriented. Only EUR 153 million is taken from the Enterprise, Competitiveness, item alone. But also because this budget actually shows that we have one bag of money and we are just and only putting the financial resources out of this bag of money into one pocket of this bag. Nothing else! But the revenue side is cold. We can only charge revenue from tax collection and not from value added, from recovery, from economy, from entrepreneurship. This is the main and main reason, everything else is a bluff, but this is the main and main reason that I cannot support this budget rebalancing because it is not development-oriented. You talked about compromise, we have a fine compromise on the table, a fine compromise that we have approached the 10 billion-euro magical border on the expenditure side in times of crisis. In times of conjuncture, in times of fat cows, we were nowhere near at such expenditure and that we increased the deficit by 200 million euros with this rebalancing. That's great! It is no wonder that young people are moving abroad looking for opportunities, their careers in the neighbouring countries of the European Union, not young people up to 30 years old, but those between 30 and 40 years old, so to speak, a lost generation, because here, in this country, they no longer see opportunities. This is the economic policy that follows this budget rebalancing. Finally, dear coalition, I hope that this was not – in the good of the country – the last balance of the budget, because in this way, what happened today and yesterday, you will no longer be able to [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u344	Explanation of the vote, Mr. Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u345	Thank you so much for saying that. I cannot support this budget rebalance simply because – otherwise you could not do much in this short time and how much money it is, but the calculation is quite simple. If we spend 10 billion, 8.5 billion in the budget, we have more than a billion interest to pay, almost two billion and a half dollars in debt to pay back, and we also have to give more than a billion and a half dollars out of the budget for pensions. There is no easy solution unless something is done on the revenue side. The Government's normative programme for this year shows that something will also be done this year to relieve the economy in order to attract foreign investors and reduce the number of unemployed, to increase the number of employees, those who pay in the budget. That is why I am very skeptical that with such a policy, in the way it has now emerged, we will come out of this crisis. Mathematics isn't complicated, it's primary mathematics. If nothing happens, I doubt we'll make it without a new rebalancing by the end of this year. Or worse, because money will run out in this balance sheet or this budget, so I appeal to all coalition parties, to the government, to seriously address problems and to do something in the direction that more money will flow into the budget, but not only with new taxes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u346	Explanation of the vote, Mr Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u347	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will support this budget or budget rebalancing. Colleague Lah correctly took up the situation in which the budget was drawn up; it is said that the poor financial situation, the large amount of interest that the State must pay and from all this is impossible to distribute to all it wants. I believe that this budget is designed to bring about some economic growth, an increase in employment in the future. My colleague Lah said that the economy was under-represented; on the other hand, the United Left proposed amendments where something would be taken away from this budget line and more education would be provided. In short, opinions on this are very divided. I believe that the budget is set optimally, but, of course, we will only be able to assess its effects in one year. Today we will not be able to do all of this, we can only anticipate them, and with little optimism I believe that we have no choice but to confirm the effects of the budget or the rebalancing in just one year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u348	Explanation of the vote, Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u349	Mr. President, thank you very much. I hope that I too will not deserve a reminder today, but I will try to explain roughly to citizens and citizens in Slovenia why I cannot agree with this budget. Firstly, the budget is a reflection of the time that the Slovenian people spend. This is a reflection of the time when a market economy in such a society cannot function fully, it does not have – at least about no – some serious ones, I can say some market conditions so that it can even be enforced. In particular, the institutions of the country where we have the most expensive justice system per 100,000 inhabitants, on the other hand, where we have cartel arrangements, especially in medicine, in the general pharmaceutical industry; where people pay certain services that are at the level of Germany from 20 years ago, I mean telecommunications in particular. In such a society, the market economy cannot operate. It can't work either, because there is at least some complete competition, there is no established market, we still have some social capitalism, I can say in part a planning model of the economy and in such conditions people are avoiding us. Slovenia has significantly smaller purchasing power, we are a transit country, we do not know how to make use of good geostrategic positions, we live, I can say, as a boat that moves us, we do not have a serious strategy of what this nation and the country wants. This budget is a reflection of this time; we do not want any reforms, nothing can change, not in health care, nor in the judicial system, and this is the maximum that we have achieved. And pensioners, 2016 will not be able to raise their pension because you will have 20% of your pension. A new bottom is coming. Orders will be cut in the second half of this year. Dear colleagues, the budget will be faster than [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] ‘that's why I won't support it, because it's unrealistic, because I can say that all the movements in Europe in the second half of this year will be exhibiting completely different statements and look [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u350	Explanation of the vote, Mr. Andrej Chuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u351	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. What else am I supposed to say today? I've already done something, and it doesn't look like it was worth it. The best thing is to finish as soon as possible, and then we'll go home, but I'll go to the content, because I don't want to get another reminder, because today is the first time I've ever gotten one. I would just like to take up the debate that has taken place today. The Government of Mira Cerar has done nothing until today, except that it has drawn up one briefing balance for the previous year, as well as one rebalancing for 2015, for which, as we see by the opposition's warnings, it is only a matter of time when the budget balance for 2015 will be back on the agenda. Everyone says that there will be some parliamentary holidays there, i.e. September, October, and I am sure that at that time, there will be a lot of news about how he voted today. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support the principles of efficiency, responsibility and we do not in any way represent and advocate new principles, ethical principles and standards of policy, such as the principles of knowledge, study, proposal and analysis, because we have enough of this in this building. It is time for those who have been elected to rule, not to study, analyze, and try to do something. You have been chosen to work, and to this day you have not done as your professors in your ranks would say, "Not enough, sit down." So is this balance. You have rejected the specific amendment for the construction of the emergency centre of Ptuj, which I particularly resent, and on the other hand, you prefer to spend five hundred thousand euros on representation than on young people. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u352	Explanation of Dr. Franz the Crusader.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u353	Thank you very much, President. I will support this budget rebalancing. It is a typical Keynesian budget, I warn you, for the first time since 2009, public spending is rising more significantly by 3%. This will have a multiplier effect, this can be practically predicted only if projects fail. Similarly to the forecast that the ZUJF will cause recession and double bottom in 2012, it is now possible to predict for the first time the acceleration of growth due to domestic factors, not only because of exports. Exports, as I have already said in the debate, and I do not have time at the moment, will grow and contribute further to economic growth. Of course, a major problem is ensuring normal reproduction or the operation of subsystems. Here the government will have to intensively redistribute funds and in the context of this redistribution may also need some balance, so I do not worry at all, but the times are such. Why? Because we have dropped the tax rates too much and we do not want to raise them at the income and income tax of the right person. We have corrected a little bit with VAT, a little bit with excise duties, but not enough; and excise policy – here I agree – has great reserves and errors. The amendments, in the way we have submitted them today, would be destroyed by the tax administration if they were accepted. That's what you need to know. Twenty-seven million seems to me like it's over my finger. They'd just pick it up there. And we'd be doing damage elsewhere, of course through the boards. However, there was something different; at least in the previous law, we have adopted several amendments to the Law on Intervention Measures and the Balance of Public Finances of the Communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u354	We are moving on to a decision on the draft budget rebalancing of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015 as a whole [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I guess not. Then please report again. Explanation of the vote by Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u355	Thank you for your word, Madam President! Besides, I thought we were already voting, but I pressed the button, but I'm going to say it now, because I have a word to explain my voice. I will, of course, vote in favour of this budget because I think it is appropriate and that it is oriented so that we will lift our country from this recession. And we have also reached agreement on some matters, and I will, of course, support this budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u356	Explanation of Miha Kordish's voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u357	Thank you so much for saying that. We have been able to hear during the debate that opinions on this budget are shared; that one parliamentary group feels otherwise. Ladies and gentlemen, we don't consider the socialists, we know the socialists. In the course of this same discussion, I have also expressed my wish to comment on the subject of this budget in relation to health, and I would like to take this opportunity to justify my rejection of the budget, in the field of health. According to last year's balance sheet, healthcare funds are increasing, but let's not forget that the funds went down first with last year's rebalancing. This apparent increase this year is due to the delay in the construction of emergency centres and the transfer of funds. In fact, the budget of the Ministry of Health for 2015 is still a crisis budget and, instead of healthcare being a priority in the crisis, is neglected. A large part of the problem is in supplementary health insurance, which is socially unfair and economically ineffective. The government has already promised in the coalition contract that it will replace it with a fair public offering, and we have not received anything on the table in six months. We still have hospitals in red numbers, we have a shortage of medical staff, nurses from UKC to homes for the elderly to burn out, we have clinical departments in facilities from the 19th century. A fair tax policy and a real priority could address this problem by 2020. But it's a matter of choice. Are health, social, development priorities or low taxes on capital and property?Oh, my God! It's a matter of choice. The government, the coalition has chosen this budget, and so have I. Against! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u358	Now we can move on to a decision on the draft rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015 as a whole. We're voting. The 69 present is a Member of Parliament and Members, with 51 votes against 18. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 18.]] I note that the 2015 budget balance of the Republic of Slovenia has been adopted. On the basis of Article 163(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose to the Assembly that it adopt the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly authorises the President of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, Mrs Urško Ban, Member of Uroša Pikla and Member of Miho Kordiš, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly, on the basis of the decisions taken by the Assembly, to draw up the final text of the rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 59 votes against 7. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against the seven.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015 by means of an urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled by 20. 2. 2015, which you received on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the United Left Group to Article 1. The explanation of vote on behalf of the United Left Group shall be given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u359	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. In this place, I call once again on the House to vote in favour of our amendment, namely, that Article 1 of this Law be deleted, as it would allow, in so far as exceptional circumstances arise and pensions cannot be paid, the State will be able, if we adopt our amendment, to apply Article 2 of its Constitution, which states that Slovenia is a social state, to this end, to be in a position to pay additional debts and to ensure that pensions are paid this year. We think this is a basic task of the state. This country is supposed to be social and provide social protection to all, and in particular to pensioners who are among the most at risk – as much as 50% of them live below the poverty line. Therefore, I do not think we can afford to cross this article and thus risk taking away from them, in the event of exceptional circumstances, those incomes on which they are existentially dependent.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-02-20-SDZ7-Izredna-09.ana.u360	So we are voting on the amendment of the United Left Group to Article 1. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with a vote of 4 to 48. [[The vote was 4.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 6. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 53. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 53.]] There are 69 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 53. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 18. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 9th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly.
