ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the fourth session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mrs Jelka Godec, Mrs Vesna Vervega by 2 p.m., Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, Mrs Iva Dimic by 1 p.m., mag. Matthew Tonin, mag. Anže Logar, Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec, Mr. Marjan Dolinšek by 12 noon. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to five. On a daily basis, it's a proposal for a law on pre-trial measures, the first defense. The proposal for a law is addressed by 21 Members and Members of Parliament with the first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 21 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mr Jan Mahnic. [[advertising from the hall]] Here you go, Mr. Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u2	Dear Vice President, if you look at the screen, there are 29 of us; there are a little more of us here. At least due to the minutes it is necessary to establish the presence. Is that enough for us?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u3	We are not before the vote, so we can proceed with the work. I suggest Mr Jan Mahnic gets the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Secretary of State Mr. Levanic! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that every work is honorable, that every work is considered and that the volunteer traineeships we have known so far are not acceptable; therefore, we propose that they be abolished. This follows the programme of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which it considered to be early elections to the National Assembly in 2014. After all, this also follows the coalition agreement signed by the ruling coalition, where they wrote that volunteer traineeships are not acceptable. As you probably know, we have already discussed one of our proposals in December. Unfortunately, the Government of Mira Cerar and the Minister then rejected this concrete proposal, which opened up coordination; probably only because it was proposed on our part. Then we looked at the magnetogram, you had constructive suggestions, and therefore we decided to take your comments into account on what would be good to change. As a result, this law — later corrected on the basis of what you have said — has been re tabled. The reason for the adoption of the law is the abolition of volunteer traineeships in the comprehensive Labour Relations Act, which can be determined in the field by a specific law. The arrangements so far have been inappropriate. Increasing numbers of youth and youth organizations have warned that there are many abuses in the field of traineeships and that volunteer trainees are doing their job instead of someone else. Our proposal for a law is also intended to relieve employers who decide to hire trainees. With this proposal, the law provides for the adoption of a policy for the implementation of traineeships by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for a period of 5 years in order to ensure transparent, stable medium-term measures in the field of the implementation of traineeships in the Republic of Slovenia. It applies to all forms of traineeship, and it is also intended to ensure a stable policy in the field of the employment of trainees, which will not depend on daily policy movements and partial solutions. Following the adoption of a policy for the implementation of traineeships, which must be adopted within 30 days following the publication of the law, a solution will be put in place which means the abolition of volunteer traineeships or the abolition of the legal basis which allows volunteer traineeships at systemic level – i.e. in the Labour Relations Act and in the field laws. As far as finance is concerned, Mr Levanič, Secretary of State, assured at the meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy on 11 December and at the meeting of the National Assembly on 18 December, funds amounting to EUR 24 million have already been made available in 2015 to ensure payment for traineeships. As an additional incentive, it is proposed that if the employer decides to hire a trainee and keeps that person in a post-training working relationship, then 24 months will be exempt from the payment of contributions. But we also introduced a guardian into this marriage. In the event that the implementation policy is not adopted in a timely manner, this safeguard applies to purely all contracts for volunteer trainees, namely that each volunteer trainee is entitled to a cash refund at least at the level of the net minimum wage. The aim of the law is to ensure working relationships for all traineeships for the duration of the traineeship, to encourage and burden employers in the recruitment of traineeships, to facilitate or immediately move to a working relationship and to gain work experience for those who acquire professional qualifications, and to ensure the legal basis and obligations of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to adopt a policy for the implementation of traineeships with measurable objectives, criteria and criteria for the long-term arrangements for co-financing or for the financing of traineeships. The principle is that every job counts. The legislator cannot define work with specific laws which are mandatory for obtaining a professional qualification and which are not paid. The principle of the social state is followed by ensuring payment for the performance of the job and the burden of employers in the employment of trainees, as I have said before. I hope that this proposal, which we have proposed, is more in the direction of those proposals that you made at the meeting of the National Assembly in December. I think it's really high time we went to solve this problem. In the event that we are going to have a constructive debate today, according to the government's opinion and the position of the coalition, I believe that we will have a fruitful debate today; and, of course, I hope that this will be the case in the vote. You probably have some suggestions of your own, and there will be time for that in another reading. However, I think that with today, if we support this proposal, we will take a big step forward to finally move from words to actions and do something for young people in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u5	Thank you. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Dejan Levanič, State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! To begin with, let me just say that the Government will not object to the draft law tabled in the first reading by the Slovenian Democratic Party in the parliamentary procedure. So that there will be no more evidence that the Government does not listen to what the opposition wants to propose, we will further explain what needs to be further regulated, that we will really come to what we all want – that is to say that we will enable those who practice any kind of internship to actually get paid for it. The bill also shows that the drafters of the bill have examined the opinions of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and the Government's position, which has already sought to regulate the volunteer traineeship in previous attempts. They also included in the preparation of this law all the conclusions and instructions adopted by the Government at its December 2014 meeting, which we are particularly pleased with. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities was also the main initiator of the organisation of volunteer traineeships with the above-mentioned conclusions, and we have also prepared an analysis of volunteer traineeships by sector. On the basis of the conclusions we have adopted in the Government, we have ensured that volunteers in the state administration should no longer be employed. After these decisions were adopted, we called on the ministries to also prepare changes to the sectoral legislation, and then we received a proposal from the Slovenian Democratic Party at the table. As soon as we were familiar with this bill, we convened a meeting with all the competent ministries, which then gave rise to the opinion of the Government, which was adopted yesterday. The Government has therefore already supported, by the decisions it has adopted, the proposal to abolish volunteer traineeships in the form of the expiry of the provisions of the sectoral rules allowing such volunteer traineeships, with the exception of the provisions of the Law on the Law on the Law of State Examination, which also has specific arrangements in this field. It should be noted, however, that the Ministry of Justice has already prepared an amendment to this law and is currently in inter-departmental coordination. The Government also supports the exemption measure for employers' social security contributions in the event of a trainee's employment for the duration of the traineeship and the further possibility of applying this incentive also in the event of a trainee's employment after an indefinite period of time. We believe that, at this point, we will have to have a debate on what we will do about the period of eligibility to this employment incentive, so that we will not take this measure, which now exists, i.e. employment for an indefinite period by promoting the employment of trainees, in fact bear this incentive for employment for an indefinite period of time instead. But it's a matter of second reading, and by then we'll have our positions in order. At the same time, we believe that the limitation of the traineeship target group should be laid down to implement this incentive. This law, proposed by the SDS, also does not include it. Given the data at the Ministry, we know that the most problems with the employment of young people with tertiary education have been the case; therefore, it would be reasonable to encourage the employment of trainees in the form of exemption from payment of contributions only in the employment of this group of jobseekers. However, it is crucial, given that we have received more evidence, that we do not have measures for the age group over 30, so that we do not limit these incentives to age; that we also provide these additional incentives for employment. Some good purpose is shown in this law, it will need to be corrected or further stimulated at some points, so that we do not do any more damage; but that we really deal with the current situation in an integrated manner. It will be very difficult for us to achieve what the applicant proposes on the implementation policy of traineeships, because the labour market is changing very quickly. It would not be right for us to take five years to concrete a traineeship policy and then, at some point, when something happens to us in the labour market, there are even bigger problems. Here I suggest we have a conversation. We have done a lot on systemic and support measures for youth employment. Let me tell you that today it is clear that there has been no better employment of unemployed persons in the last 20 years than it was in 2014, so our measures are actually being taken. Today, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Employment publishes an invitation to tender for the employment of 850 trainees – paid trainees. Therefore, it also calls on employers to apply for this measure and to allow young people to work first. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u7	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The Member Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party shall have the floor, on its behalf Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Secretary of State, welcome all together! After quite a short period of time, we are discussing the subject of traineeship for a second time, which is very good, as it shows that there is a real will to deal with the subject. The opinion of the Government, which supports the proposed solutions in substance, is also encouraging. The field of traineeships is extremely important as it represents an important interim period between the education received and the regular working relationship. In particular, in certain professions it facilitates the transition to a working relationship. We are proposing two key issues with the proposal of the Youth Act. The first is that we abolish volunteer traineeships, as all trainees are provided with a working relationship for the duration of the traineeship. The second is that it is possible to encourage employers to hire trainees in the form of exemption from social security contributions. The abolition of volunteer traineeships is extremely important, as volunteer traineeships are mainly understood as exploitation. Exploiting the difficult situation of young people who, because of difficulties in obtaining their first working experience, agree to work free of charge; even if in practice, this means that they are working in the same way as their paid fellow workers. The only difference, then, is that they are not paid for their work. Unfortunately, however, volunteering in certain professions today is the only traineeship and thus the only way to gain the required work experience is for young people to agree to do so. It is often so that, for example, without 10 months of working experience, he cannot pass a professional examination. However, without an expert examination, they do not fulfil the tendering conditions, which means they do not have the opportunity to apply for a job at all. If we do more on the employability of young people, they will also go less abroad; this will make a huge loss, as the biggest loss for the country is the departure of young people abroad. The whole schooling for one university-educated country costs more than 200 000 euros. So the country invests a lot of money in young people, through kindergartens, primary schools, high schools, and often colleges, and then these young people go abroad. They do, however, leave in the very years when they should enter the labour market and start by paying taxes and spending back to the country's budget. In encouraging traineeships, it is also crucial to encourage employers to recruit trainees. Incentives to employers in the proposed law are the exemption from the payment of contributions for the duration of the traineeship. In order to avoid abuse, forgiveness or non-renewal of the employment relationship, it is also proposed that this incentive be extended in the form of the exemption from the payment of contributions for the employment of the young person for an indefinite period of time. In the draft law before us, therefore, part goes towards ending the exploitation of young people by volunteering, giving young people the opportunity to have first working experience as trainees with the possibility of continuing into a regular working relationship for an indefinite period of time; and encouraging employers to first employ trainees and continue to continue working in the form of an indefinite working relationship. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposed law because we believe that it will enable a brighter future for many young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u9	Thank you. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u10	Madam President, thank you so much for your words. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Allow me to present to you the position of the Desus Group on the draft law on measures in the field of traineeship. So that there will be no dramatic input immediately at the beginning; we will support this bill in this reading and, of course, through the second reading, and all the follow-up to the constructive approach to fully cooperate with those other things – which are somewhat open or unconscionable or needing some adjustments – also correct that the law will actually achieve its purpose. What is the definition or what is the definition of traineeship? Preparations are planned and organised training of young professional staff for self-employment after completion of schooling or education. The main purpose is to carry out a training programme with which, I am sure, a rich theoretical knowledge connects with practical knowledge, acquires contact with the field of work and insight into developments in practice, and thus deepens knowledge and skills to carry out its professional work. After a successful completion of the traineeship, a future worker is prepared for a self-employed job in his profession. Of course, I could ask myself on this occasion, but of course I won't ask myself why it's not possible in the entire course of education; but I won't start primary school, and I won't go through college from high school. Then why does it have to be reintroduced here with practice? It may also reflect on future changes in educational procedures. In the Desus Group, we are truly concerned about what has happened to traineeships, especially volunteer trainees. Here the situation is unsustainable, we must admit this, because certain professions are automatically subject to compulsory traineeships due to legislation, which is at the same time a prerequisite for the performance of a professional examination, and which is again in the following entry for the performance of the job or occupation of the job. Of course, I am talking here primarily, but not exclusively, about health issues, education, justice has already been exposed, not least in the area of social protection, but also in general in the public sector. 90% of these traineeships, which were essentially processed by the State itself, are unpaid. As a result, apprentices without working age and without all rights under the employment relationship, which are otherwise "covered", in the notes, in paid traineeships. In the current situation, when the supply of labour and job vacancies is in reverse proportion, the volunteer traineeship certainly creates opportunities for the exploitation of young educated workers. For young people are literally forced to take advantage of any work for free, only to gain some experience and practice for the future. Of course, that's not acceptable. Despite the fact that a person cannot contribute much to the greater performance of the work process at the time of the traineeship, since the primary function of the traineeship is training for the self-employment of the profession, in our Desus Group we believe that some work has been done and that the trainee must be properly and fairly paid for. At the December meeting of the National Assembly, we discussed the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Relations Act, whose basic intention was similar to that of today's draft law on measures in the field of traineeship. It has also been the case today for the abolition of volunteering, the adoption of a government-level traineeship policy and the promotion of traineeships through the exemption from employers' contributions. Compared to the previous proposal of the law, the current proposal is a separate law, a systematic interference with individual laws governing volunteering, and is also somewhat broader in the sense that it extends incentives to employers to contract trainees after an indefinite period of training, for the first two years of employment, perhaps a somewhat long period of time, and regulates monetary compensation for volunteer trainees, in the event of an untimely adoption of the policy of implementing traineeships. At the December session, we all agreed, opposition and coalition, that traineeship anomalies should be removed and systematically addressed. Earlier, the State Secretary from the Ministry had told you that something had already been done in this area; this, of course, can please us. The government itself has approached the implementation of a coalition agreement in which we have declared unpaid practices and traineeships by coalition partners unacceptable. Government Decisions of 11. 12. are clearly and specifically focused on the abolition of volunteer traineeships. Although we agreed in the Desus Group on the purpose and purpose of the bill, we rejected the previous proposal of our fellow Members. We have estimated that only by interfering with the Labour Relations Act will we not solve the whole problem. At the same time, the Government's planned activities were acceptable and satisfactory for us from this point of view, because they were to take place systematically and substantively, according to individual departments, I previously counted them, with the overall aim of amending the sectoral laws governing volunteer traineeships. As has already been said, today's proposal is broader and more systematic, there is a certain need for complementarities, corrections, and that is why we support it. We have also assessed in the Desus Group that the proposed incentives for the recruitment of trainees and further employment for an indefinite period after the completion of the traineeship are welcome; in particular, or for employers. The employer shall be the one who, at the time of the trainee’s training, will prepare or perfect his theoretical knowledge with practice and will allow him to continue working alone or even to continue his own career, for which the trainee, as well as the employer, will benefit the country. For us, as an unconditionally social party, it is still important to realize the principle that each work is counted. What I have already said before is that for each job, an adequate and fair payment is made and that this address is followed by social, health, if you will, pension security in the final stage. We are also convinced that there is an urgent need to ensure, at the end of formal schooling, an immediate transition to a working relationship, as young people will only be given the opportunity to show what they have learned during schooling. The Desus Group will support the bill at this stage, as has already been said. In the next stages of the legislative process, there will certainly be some amendments to the text of the law, with MEPs and Members of Desus working constructively together. All with a view to achieving the main objective – final regulation of the situation in the field of traineeship, and consequently on the whole or much of the labour market, that each work will be considered to be fair and adequately paid for each job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u11	Thank you. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mrs Marija Bacič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u12	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, distinguished Secretary of State, colleague and colleague, welcome to this snowy morning! Today we are considering the proposal of the opposition Slovenian Democratic Party concerning measures in the field of traineeship. We welcome and express our principled support for the draft law in the Group of Social Democrats. The proposal foresees the abolition of volunteer traineeships, which we support in the Group of Social Democrats; but we believe that a door should be left locked where it cannot be avoided because of the specific area. We welcome the proposals for solutions that provide the basis for a regular working relationship after the completion of the traineeship. These are designed on the basis of solutions adopted by the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities to address youth employment issues and already deliver excellent results in practice. The solutions provided for in the bill go in the direction of systemic regulation of the area, which has been over-absorbed in recent times. Preparatory action is defined as an institution that allows for the transition from education to the labour market. Young workers are given the opportunity to put their knowledge into practice, but they also gain additional knowledge that will have a significant impact on their further career path. In practice, however, this important institute is degraded to a level that denies dignity to young people instead of contributing to additional skills. Many potential abuses and the boundless creativity of some employers in this area place volunteer trainees at the side of the fine - tuned workers, economically dependent workers, and forced espionage. Volunteer traineeships can be compared in many ways with agency work, black work and other precarious forms of work. To all, the common denominator is exploitation. Such or otherwise, larger or smaller, but still solely and solely exploitation; cheap or, even better, free labour. The total is also the complete and partial absence of the need for social security and labour rights. We must be correct in this place and commend all the efforts of the ministry towards detecting anomalies and finding solutions that will protect workers and their rights. The Social Democrats will therefore continue to support the Minister on the intention of gradually equating taxation of different forms of work, thus reducing the reasons for the abuse of labour legislation that puts certain groups of people in the labour market in a position of disgruntled workers without the necessary level of social security. We will continue to support the implementation of the principle Every work counts and unifies all forms of work in terms of inclusion in social security systems. The Ministry has also done a great deal in reducing unemployment. Active employment policy and public works, Youth Guarantee, exemption from contributions, incentives for employment, etc. – all these measures give positive results. It's time to settle this issue of volunteer traineeships. It is worrying that most volunteer traineeships are being carried out in the public sector. Educated young people are becoming a vulnerable group, to which the responsible are now showing a machete’s attitude. Such anomalies in the labour market create a new form of social regulation – slavery. The existence of an existing dependence on the good will of the master, which shamelessly exploits the economic circumstances and personal hardships that have arisen. We create poor employees and strengthen the culture of poverty. Under the pretext of flexibility and increasing competitiveness, we beat the dreams of our children who are forced to live and survive from hand to mouth; without hope for a bright future. We take their dignity and teach them creative survival through the Find Yourself system. We give young people the feeling that unfair practices are desirable but fair practices are unacceptable. The most vulnerable are those young people who are in a poor economic situation and who simply cannot afford volunteering because of the struggle for bare survival. If we are already able to educate children well in the public education system and draw creativity, ambition and help them set goals for the future, with which they will finally overcome the vicious cycle of poverty, all will disintegrate as a mill bubble at a time when they have to make compulsory traineeships in order to get regular employment. Unpaid, of course. That moment the light of the bright future goes out. Then comes reality, difficult arrival and late entry into the labour market, forced acceptance of precarious, volatile, inadequate work, unequal employment opportunities, economic dependence, life with parents, delay in family creation and self-reliance. Volunteer trainees usually perform full-time work of 8 hours, which would otherwise be carried out by a regular employed person. That is why it requires "the same pay for the same work", and above all "the fair pay for fair work" must not sound like a populism lump sum. A work that contributes to added value and is of value to the employer has its own price. It's called payment. At this point, we tell young people: Your work is not worth paying. Therefore, it is high time that, even in accordance with the coalition agreement in which we coalition partners, which we have today in this National Assembly, have clearly written down: "Unpaid practices and traineeships in an area where legislation provides for compulsory traineeships and practices are not permissible. Let's go look for solutions, and let's take care of this area." At this point in the wider social space, there is a general consensus that traineeships should be discontinued where they are not needed. And your hand on your heart, it's not necessary many times. For all of this we welcome the proposal that this time comes from the opposition species. Perhaps the solutions envisaged at this time are not optimal, but we believe that we will find and adopt the best solutions that will regulate this area once and for all in a constructive and cooperative spirit. Let us return to young people's hope for the future, allow our society and our young workers to re-trust in the country, socially and legally, one that protects them and their rights. In the Group of Social Democrats, we light the proposal with a green light. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u13	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u14	Mr President, honourable fellow Members and fellow Members! Ensuring decent work for its inhabitants is or should be one of the fundamental duties of the State. Currently, there are 119 thousand 458 workers officially registered without a job. The month of November was 26.1% between 15 and 29 years of age and the average rate of youth employment in 2013 was 43.5%, which means that each can generate an opinion on the performance of the Republic of Slovenia in providing employment, in particular for young people. The proposal before us can only be assessed in the context of other measures to promote employment. These measures can be divided into three groups: economic policy, active employment policy, subsidies or exemptions for employers. The United Left's position is that it is the most important economic policy. In doing so, we note that both the government and the proposer in this area offer no solutions. More. With their policies, they increase unemployment. Both advocate a reduction in the number of employees in the public sector, and the government in the ZUJF has renewed the provision that requires a reduction in the number of employees by 1% from budget users. Both the government and the proposer are committed to adopting a fiscal rule that will undoubtedly have negative consequences for the level of employment in the country. The rapid and radical reduction of government expenditure will undoubtedly reduce public sector employment, rather than reduce spending in such a harsh administrative way. As this will also reduce aggregate demand, jobs will also be reduced in the private sector. This is only one missing element in the economic policy of the country in addition to the privatisation and irresponsible management of state-owned enterprises and banks that the government allows. On this basis, we note that the government policy lacks a major element of full-employment policy. Since economic policy operates on the medium term and does not help vulnerable groups in the labour market, it must be accompanied by an active employment policy in the real sense of the word. This is about ensuring decent work in public works, i.e. by employing non-profit and public institutions for the general social benefit of unemployed persons. An additional measure is the possibility of retraining, additional training, on-the-job assistance for those falling out of the labour market. Unfortunately, trends and orientations are also inadequate in this area. Among other things, last year’s funding for public works has been reduced, but it has not been funding formal retraining for some time, nor has it been keeping official records of the deficit professions. Only workshops remain of active employment policy measures, in which the same external operators always teach the unemployed through budgetary means that unemployment is a consequence of their individual characteristics. In short, instead of enticing qualifications, moralization and psychologicalization. It is not surprising that in recent years the radical horse employment policy has been subsidising employers. This is a measure that is the worst of all these forms of combating unemployment. This measure increases the share of the added value belonging to capital to both large and small. Exemptions and subsidies shall encourage businesses and organisations that do not meet minimum social standards. If an enterprise is exempted from social contributions, this is exactly as if the same company were exempt from compliance with environmental standards. In both cases, the company has less costs and the company has direct damage due to the loss of social cash contributions or damage to the environment and human health. Subsidising or allowing non-compliance with social standards, carrying out economic or other activities without covering socially recognised labour costs is inappropriate. If we evaluate the proposal for a law from this point of view, we will come to the following conclusions. Provision of funds for paid traineeships is the task of public institutions, as well as private operators, in all areas where traineeships are compulsory. Provision of funds for the payment of traineeships in companies where it is not a compulsory traineeship is the responsibility of companies, unless it is a region of development at risk. Therefore, we do not support the exemption from payment of employers' contributions to institutions or undertakings employing trainees whose traineeships are compulsory. These organisations or undertakings must provide these funds in the context of their regular funding. For example, if a public college or a health institution is exempt from social security contributions, we do not save anything because that amount is then lost in a health or pension box. However, if we exempt payments from a private establishment or an economic company, we also damage the social treasury and increase the income of the private owner. The proposal does not prevent the possibility of hiring trainees, which, of course, implies the chaining of parts which would have been somewhat hampered by the change in the business register, which was unfortunately blocked two weeks ago. The condition for exemption is that the employer pays regular salaries and has not for the last three months forgiven for business reasons. This does not, of course, prevent an undertaking from unduly reducing operating costs at the expense of all residents by entering into short-term contracts with trainees. This would not only harm the social treasury, but would also allow unfair competition. The proposal foresees that the employer who makes a fixed-term appointment with the trainee will be exempt from payment of the employer's contributions. Thus, as is now the case for the employment of persons under 30 years of age. The applicant shall base the eligibility of his proposal on this analogy. Regrettably, we have fallen so low that we must subsidize what is the norm, namely, employment for an indefinite period of time. That is why we have supported the Law on intervention measures in the labour market, but this is about workers in different situations. In the United Left, we are prepared to support the two solutions contained in this Act, namely, cash compensation for trainees, provided that this compensation is counted as the basis for the payment of income, otherwise those workers who pay income either from wages or from another contractual relationship and the policy of implementing the traineeship adopted by the Government would be put in a worse position. Since this is the first consideration of the law and it will be possible to correct it with amendments, we will support the law at this stage. We will support him because we need to start solving the acute problem of unemployment. This marriage can be part of the answer. But ensuring the well-being of the population and full employment, or better said decent work for all, is only possible through thorough changes to the socio-economic system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u15	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. The Honourable Representative of the Government. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have a law on the table that is supposed to solve the acute problem of traineeship in our country. We are grateful to the opposition colleagues for their efforts and for preparing this law. We also know that the coalition contract states that unpaid traineeships are not permissible. But here we would expect the following to say that we will solve this acute problem by 31. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It's not like that. Colleagues and colleagues, if we have a ministry of work, if we have a ministry for the family, then let this ministry deal with how people will get a job, how our families will do the best they can, not to break down families, but to maybe deal with something else. Here's my review. In some ways, the government also has a question of conscience here, why the opposition party had to come before the national assembly with this bill in order to resolve the acute issue of traineeships. It is not very long since the consideration of the Proposal for a Amendment to the Labour Relations Act, which was in some way the predecessor of this law. Back then, the Christian Democrats supported the proposed solutions and we support them today in this bill. We consider that it is a good basis for further parliamentary procedure. The proposal for a law obliges the Government to prepare and adopt a policy for the implementation of traineeships for a period of five years. In doing so, the law prescribes the minimum content that this policy must also contain. Following the adoption of a policy for the implementation of traineeships, which must be adopted within 15 days, a solution will begin to apply, which means abolishing volunteer traineeships or repealing the legal basis which allows volunteer traineeships at systemic level, here I am thinking of the Labour Relations Act, and under the sectoral laws. Again, many young people and their organisations point out that in some professional areas, such as social work, education, health care, law or regular courts, I think paid traineeships are not actually available. In these areas, many young people are really forced into volunteering. In fact, it is totally inappropriate for young people not to make voluntary, voluntary decisions, but to be forced into it, so it is a forced internship. I know this because, in fact, my office is filled with many young people asking me to make a job for them, but as you know, I can't do it, I can't do it. Christian Democrats also support the introduction of a meaningful equal measure as a complement to the Act on Labour Market and Parental Protection Intervention Measures, which provides for the exemption of contributions from the employer who employs a trainee, at the same time eliminates the age limit of 30 years, which is only right, and does not discriminate against the age group over 30, which has so far withdrawn briefly with the vast majority of government measures and incentives. It is also a good solution to ensure a 24-month exemption from contributions if the employer employs an indefinite person after a successful traineeship. For Christian Democrats, it is a positive step that a person does not have to wait 3 months for a person to be eligible for a measure. We believe that it would be good for Christian Democrats to incorporate a guardian or an incentive into the law so that, due to the lack of earmarked money for the payment of trainees, institutions in the public sector do not sign traineeships. In the face of very unpredictable and rapidly changing situations, it is our view that this is a real possibility that would completely destroy the spirit and purpose of this law. Members of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats will be supported by the proposed law on measures in the field of traineeship, as we estimate that it is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u17	The word is given by the Alliance's Group, for her mag. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Members of the SDS have already tabled a third proposal for the law in order to abolish volunteering. At the last regular meeting of December last year, the National Assembly rejected the amendment to the Labour Relations Act, which also provided for the abolition of volunteer traineeships. This time, the removals were carried out by a special law, namely the law on measures in the field of traineeships. In order to promote the recruitment of trainees as soon as possible after education, it provides for incentives for employment, ensures the adoption of medium-term traineeship strategies and a 5-year implementation policy and provides for a financial compensation for volunteer trainees for the period until the abolition of volunteer traineeships. The law also added a fuse to ensure that each volunteer trainee would be entitled to a minimum wage payment if the Government did not adopt a traineeship policy for a period of 5 years. In the Alliance, we agree with the purposes and objectives of the law on the abolition of volunteer traineeship and we will support the proposal of the law, as we supported the amendment of the Law on Labour Relations in December last year. Since then, we have warned the Government that there has been an increasing practice, that, above all, state institutions offer training opportunities to young people in the search for a first job, with traineeships doing their work mostly as volunteers. If we have in the past been able to claim that unpaid traineeships are primarily an exception, they are now almost a rule. Therefore, we have also assessed that the measure by which the Government issued a recommendation to the wider public sector last December, that such traineeships no longer be concluded, will have no major impact, namely, the reason that it was only a recommendation and that the ministries have been called upon to reconsider whether unpaid traineeships are really necessary and, accordingly, amend their legislation. As the government did not decide on a radical action and volunteer traineeships were completely banned, it was more than clear that the ministries would not prepare analyses from their field and measures to abolish volunteer traineeships within the deadline set. This, despite the Government's recommendations on the abolition of voluntary traineeship contracts for ministries, government services and public sector entities, is still emerging. In the Alliance, we are aware that the proposed law is not technically the best and that adjustments are needed. Nevertheless, we will support the draft law at first reading, because we believe that it is high time to regulate this area and ensure payment to all trainees. However, we expect the Government to support it if it makes serious recommendations in December. We believe that it should not take too much account of the opinions of individual ministries, as they did not follow the decisions of the Government to draw up systemic measures for which the deadline of 15 January 2015 was 15 January 2015. In addition, we would like to reiterate, as already in December, the changes to the labour law 10 years ago when the compulsory traineeship was abolished. At that time, all social partners, including the Government, agreed that compulsory traineeships should be limited as much as possible. Then it turned out that the country as an employer was not the most consistent. Therefore, the State or Government must ask itself again whether traineeships, as such, are still essential for them to be identified as compulsory in all these different areas? And the answer is — not really just in extreme cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u19	Ms Irena Grošelj Kosnik, SMC Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u20	Dear President, distinguished representative of the Government, colleague and colleague! Proposal for a law on measures in the field of traineeships – this issue of youth employment has gained meaning in public decision-making processes in recent years. At the same time, it should be pointed out that the system of volunteering has often appeared in the media as an institution for the exploitation of young people for cheap or even free labour. Preparations should not be abused and young people should be facilitated to enter the labour market and afford decent pay for work. Although the draft law on measures in the field of traineeships is somewhat flawed, it allows for complementarity and improvement, so we will support it in the SMC Group. In the coalition agreement, we have committed ourselves to establishing a system of paid traineeships, so we support the objectives of the bill. We do, however, have doubts that a single law would reach into several laws at the same time. We believe that in order to abolish volunteer traineeships, all competent ministries should prepare the solutions required by the profession and amend the sectoral legislation accordingly. Nevertheless, we welcome the other incentives provided by the law. This is an exemption from the employer's contribution to the trainee and an incentive for the direct transition of the trainee to work with the same employer. As early as December at the meeting of the National Assembly, we all agreed that volunteer traineeships were not admissible and that it was the profession that had to set up the framework within which the traineeship would be carried out in an area. In this context, if we point out only the case of the judiciary and the specifics of the legal examination, we find that this area will be difficult to regulate within the proposed law, since the legal examination provides adequate professional qualifications for the performance of the function or profession of a judge, a state prosecutor, a lawyer or a notary, while the trainees are mostly trained with another employer, either as volunteers or as employees in the regular working relationship. In this case, therefore, it is not the exercise of traineeships in order to enable the trainee to carry out his own work in a working relationship, but rather training in the exercise of judicial functions and professions. Nevertheless, we believe that the time is enough to provide an appropriate solution for specific areas as well. We must also draw attention to the gap between the Labour Relations Act and other sectoral laws. In the draft law under consideration, the speaker reiterates the possibility of the expiry of Article 124 of the Labour Relations Act and, as we discussed the proposal for the amendment of the Labour Relations Act, we felt that it should not be affected in the U.S.R., this time too. Here again, we must point out that Article 124 of the ZDR, referred to in the first paragraph, only provides for minimum protection rights, but not for the tolerance or obligation of volunteer traineeships, so we believe that this article must remain unchanged as a guardian. In the proposal for a law, we need to highlight another very positive incentive: these are incentives for hiring trainees and direct transitions to work with the same employer, and they are not age-bound. The Labour Market and Parental Protection Interventions Act is intended to promote employment under the age of 30 and has proved successful. The proposal for a law that we are considering today also sets these incentives for those over 30 years of age rather than the condition that it establishes the status of trainee and no longer of age. In this context, it should also be pointed out that we have a few reservations about the envisaged adoption of a five-year traineeship policy, as the labour market situation is changing very quickly and active employment policies are adapting to these conditions at the annual level. However, when seeking appropriate solutions, we must not interfere with legislation in such a way as to prevent some young people from carrying out their training and thus to carry out the profession for which they have been trained. Nevertheless, we believe that the bill is acceptable and can be improved or supplemented together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u21	We have therefore ended by presenting the views of the groups of Members, and I give the floor first to the proposaler, Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, President. Colleagues and colleagues! Obviously, I was not wrong at the beginning when I said that we would have a constructive debate today and that we would finally do something for the young. I will be on my own in view of the important subject, I think the second time since I am a half-year-old Member, even on the side of the majority vote, which is of course a good feeling. As I said before, we have followed the programme of the Slovenian Democratic Party for Elections. We followed your suggestions, and we also followed the proposal made at the time by the Secretary of State or Government. I believe that you will fix some things for yourself in a second reading, but we do not expect any serious deviations. I have looked here at the publication on the employment of the Slovenian Youth Council, which have adopted some proposals for decision makers in Slovenia on the area of the labour market, what should be regulated. And here they wrote: "The decision makers are urged to regulate the field of traineeship legally so that the traineeship can only be carried out once, so that it will not replace regular employment, and each trainee will have an appropriate mentor who will monitor and direct his work and ensure his progress. The aim of the traineeship is to train an individual to carry out his or her own work in a specific job and to gain work experience and competences that will help facilitate the transition of an individual from education to the labour market. For the field of traineeships, the State must establish or establish a framework for the quality of traineeships which will contain the following elements: the conclusion of a traineeship agreement, the definition of professional and learning objectives and guidance mentoring, the appropriate recognition of traineeships, reasonable duration, adequate social protection and the payment of the trainee, transparency, information on rights and obligations. We call on decision makers to introduce a national scheme of paid traineeships and monitor the appropriate legal arrangements for volunteer traineeships, which will ensure equal opportunities for each individual, fair pay for work, adequate social security and fair working conditions. Volunteer traineeships shall not be permitted. We call on formal educational institutions to introduce compulsory professional practice into educational programmes that do not provide for traineeships to be carried out at the end of education." This could bridge the gap between theoretical and practical knowledge and enable students to acquire competences that will make them more competitive in the labour market and facilitate their transition to the labour market. The Youth Council also responded when we published or received an insight into this proposal, saying: "On the Youth Council of Slovenia we support all activities that will lead to the abolition of the Institute of Volunteer Training. We expect decision makers to develop a solution in the next steps that will not only eliminate volunteer traineeships but will ensure decent pay and social security for traineeships and establish a framework for the quality of traineeships. The latter should follow the following principles or guidelines: traineeships must never lead to replacements of regular employment; traineeships shall be able to acquire recognized work experience with which young people develop skills and improve their skills; traineeships shall be carried out under the mentorship of competent supervisors and trainees must have access to reliable evaluation and complaint channels to monitor the progress and quality of experience gained during the traineeship. While the proposal for a law on traineeship measures in this proposal does not respond to all challenges from all areas, we are particularly concerned about the possible lack of funding for traineeships from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, so it is all the more important that the representatives of the Government and the law-makers, together with the representatives of young and other interested public, sit as soon as possible at the common table and develop solutions that will be sustainable in the long term and in the well-being of future trainees. We estimate that the proposal for a law on measures in the field of traineeship is a good basis, which is still able to be upgraded in dialogue." It is said that the Youth Council supports this issue, and I believe that they will also be invited as interlocutors in the second reading, to have an even broader and in-depth debate on this subject. It was said that it would have been better in some way if it had not been regulated by some omnibus law to interfere with a number of laws, but that all competent ministries would then prepare their proposals or solutions. That's exactly what we wrote in Article 6. Within 15 days of the entry into force of the individual Articles of this Law, the competent national authorities shall bring into line the sub-legislative acts relating to individual articles of this Act. I hope that this will not be done by those currently carrying out free internships, but that they will be able to do so after they have received the money or payment for the work they have done. It has also been said that it is 5 years too long for us to adopt policies because the labour market is changing rapidly. I can't agree with that. We are adopting strategies, resolutions now by 2020. Foreign policy is changing rapidly, too. We, too, accept what I know, and the financial perspective of the European Union, which was adopted last year, is also for a multi-annual period and the financial situation will change. We have to have a vision, we have to have some perspective. After all, we have a banal case right in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, we have a development programme plan to have at least a goal or to see some projects to be implemented, even though some are very spacey when you look at those items and when you look at the real situation in the budget. If we only accept it for one year, two years, as you would suggest, I think that a vision is just that matter or an area when we deal with it when we propose how long-term we see things in this area, that five years is just one such time, which should be at least minimal, that we know at least roughly what direction we are going and then where we will take all things in this regard. As I have already said, we are also doing this in the area of defence, foreign policy and, of course, in other areas. I believe every ministry has its own vision. Last but not least, we accept them here, and it's not just the labour market that can change radically quickly, and elsewhere, and therefore I think it's wise to leave it here for five years. I agree with the Secretary of State, it's only 30 years old, and the problem is those who are unemployed and who are over 30 years old. I think we can generally agree here that we are not a lost generation somewhere between 20 and 30, but those 30 to 35, 30 to 40, who are currently unemployed. But here we can talk about the lost generation. The Youth Guarantee, as you have already said, is the main problem, this internship is another area that you can be here as soon as you finish college so you can go to traineeships immediately, you don't have to be registered at the Institute for three months. Of course, it has also given the Youth Guarantee some solutions, but it comes to the fact that after what I know, economists work in what service area or in factories, it is said that the work for which an individual has been trained in education is not being done. And this is a huge anomaly, which should also be re-estated in the future and to a certain extent, to the extent possible. However, it is for the sake of their work that they will come from this area, that is to say that they will do their work in the area for which they have been educated. I am firmly convinced that this proposal, once it comes to practice, will also help to ensure that many of the young people are just at the expense of doing their job as a trainee after education, when the employer is only exempt from payment of contributions for the time being, as has already been said, money is provided according to the secretary, so that some fears are not needed here. The amount is still to be debated, but I am sure that a number of employers who will receive such a young person who will come out of school theoretically bribed and then will continue to train him for another year, will revel in him, will recognize this work also in practice, that a number of young people will then continue to be employed. And to further stimulate, we are going in this law in this direction, in the event that he decides to work indefinitely, that he will then be released for another two years. I agree with Mrs Tomić to some extent when she said that it is sad in some way that some minimum standards or standards, which are expected to be forgiven, are needed, but unfortunately the situation is as it is. The country directly, I can say, invests or invests in the labour market, and even if we put an investment here, I think that if only young people get jobs, it is worth it. Of course, logic on the one hand is flawed. You said 850 paid interns, if I heard correctly, of course one of the indicators is that things are going in the right direction. Two years' payout is too long, I think it's been said. See if, as I have already said, if anyone is due to this — even if it is two years, if a year is more, a year less — he gets a job or then a job in this way because of this proposal, I think two years is not too long either. When this law is passed, I think we should keep going. Our marriage was rejected. You're against the dual school system. I believe that this would also be one of the priorities that the government should definitely implement in practice. Although this proposal has been rejected, we will wait a while. Then we'll do what we're about to do. We will look at the magnetogram where your comments were, and we will make a law based on your proposals, comments for improvements. Just like we did here. And obviously we did it in this case. So much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u23	There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor, Desus. Let's get the mags ready. Jana Jenko, Desus.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u24	Thank you very much, President for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! I am very happy for a number of reasons that today we are somehow pursuing a funeral to volunteer traineeships, but it is not possible that once again, together, the opposition and the coalition, or perhaps not so personally, because I, too, once worked at the Ministry, used volunteer traineeships. However, it is not in my great joy or pride to say this, but I was simply forced because all the other measures for additional employment have been blocked. And now we won't be wondering what kind of government it was, but we could be. I am more pleased that the people who are initiating – I initially said in the presentation of Desus Group's position on what a traineeship is, and I am pleased that the people who will enter into the business will be provided with social, pension and similar security for their work they are doing. At the same time, I'm a little worried about some professions. After completing education, high school, college, which lasts six years, and traineeships – now I'm talking about health care and education – why the hell does it take so much extra professional, applied, practical training? Are they really just teaching theory at school? Yeah, I guess there's something on it. Probably there should be more practice in school, but it would not be such a long process, and perhaps some anomalies, as we have noted earlier, would be eliminated. For example, after a short minimum introduction, if necessary, it would be immediately competitive in the labour market. Not that you work Calculate how many years it takes for one doctor to get to that working temperature so that he can start surgery and that the lives of patients are not compromised. [[…]] This also applies to other areas. At this point, I cannot say that this is ideal or I can say that it is not an ideal proposal. Some things inspire me with optimism. The fact that employers are exempt from payment of contributions during the duration of the traineeship, including the following, may also be two years, at the final stage, that they are exempt. Above all, I am pleased that everyone will also receive a decent payment for proper work. You were talking about some politics, some strategies, five-year-olds. I don't know if this is necessary for such a longer period of time, because, as we say, the situation in the labour market is really changing, maybe it doesn't take that long. However, it seems essential to me that we continue on this path and that there will in fact be no further discussion between the completion of education and the actual meaning of the word entering the labour market, i.e. the employment of the person who completes education. Of course, I also have a few concerns. I will also conclude with this, because there will be an opportunity for discussion in the time until the second hearing. I have concerns about what has been presented by the Ministry to maybe focus on the tertiary level of education and leave everyone else behind. Indeed, data show that youth unemployment has increased dramatically over the past few years with this level of education, but has remained consistently very high at the level of secondary education, a slight drop in vocational education, and the level of primary education is also higher than tertiary and at a relatively high level. This would be worth considering, not just focusing on one area, on one level of the educational structure of young people. In a financial assessment, which you mentioned a bit of a shyness and finally explained that it is very difficult to assess. Of course, it is difficult to assess, but for the budget, for the pension and health-related negative financial effects may be at first sight, but they are not so high as to cause the system to collapse. In any case, they mean entering the labour market, not least increasing their consumption, paying taxes and so on. So that the negative effects here from macroeconomic trends should not be and under no circumstances should this become any negative financial assessment of the consequences, a stumbling block so as not to adopt a second reading of the amended and corrected law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u25	The word has magic. Jana Jenko Desus. Let's get the mags ready. Bojana Muršič, SD.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. It's a good-bye to everyone. Today we could draw a parallel to the debate two days ago when we were talking about apprenticeship. In all cases, there is a lack of practice of young people, educated people, educated young people. In 2013, we adopted the Labour Relations Act. At that time we also addressed the problem of volunteering, but somehow we had to respect the agreement concluded between the social partners and we were only able to introduce that the trainee only gets paid lunch and transport to work, so that at least there are no additional costs with the traineeship if it has to work for free. I think that every job has to be paid, except for that job that someone voluntarily decides to contribute to society. This isn't about volunteering. He works here to gain the practice, the work experience that the employer requires of him. I am very pleased that this proposal for a law has come to the fore. A good month ago, the government ordered the competent ministries to prepare an analysis of whether the traineeship was even necessary. In some areas, I do not think it would be necessary, but this could be shaped as some kind of temporary employment. This has not been prepared by the Ministry, so it is indeed a welcome encouragement from the opposition, the SDS party, to address this issue again. I agree with the Government's view that it is necessary to go towards employers and young people in the form of paying social security contributions. Thus, employers will be very burdened because these contributions, as we know, are considerable. However, it would still be possible to appeal to the ministries that everyone is really in his field of examination, whether he urgently needs a trainee or a possible employment. Indeed, this is very difficult at the moment, especially in the public sector, where most volunteer traineeships are being carried out, because jobs are frozen. But I think it's going to sort of thaw over time and they're going to be able to work. This would give the trainee all the rights that an employee has. In the first stage of the procedure, I will support the law because it really does not take anyone anywhere to work for free just so that they can get a job in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u27	The word has magic. Bojana Muršič, SD. Get Mr. Tomaž Lisec ready, SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u28	Thank you very much, President. Colleagues and colleagues! Today we have a law on measures in the field of traineeship on the table. Indeed, among many young people, youth employment has recently been a pressing problem. After schooling, they begin to fight for employment in a non-exhaustible labour market and have no experience in working. More and more young people at the time of the onset of unemployment perceive their situation tragically, which soon leads to severe psychological shocks and consequences that will be a burden for us and for our apprentices. Young people feel economically independent only when they earn their profits. More and more young people take advantage of the possibility of studying to maintain their student status so that they can maintain their independence and take care of themselves. Is that right? The answer is completely on the palm of your hand. We need to give young people the opportunity to obtain employment and new work experience after school. Employers require the maturity of young people, reliability and responsibility. These are the conditions that young people can prove during traineeships. Young people have competences such as good language knowledge, vulnerability to new technologies, willingness to face new challenges, change, ambition and adaptation. We must therefore take care of the country's financial mechanisms to encourage employers to offer opportunities for young people to show their knowledge and to reward young people's employers for their work accordingly. Young people are increasingly deciding on volunteering today. Of course, this allows them to gain work experience and also through volunteer training, they approach the professional examinations, which are now increasingly a condition for employment. On the other hand, it raises questions as to whether it is moral and fair for young people to become free workers. Young people who work for free today are also the burden of their parents, as they are still economically and financially dependent on them. An even greater problem arises when their parents are no longer able to shoulder that burden. Therefore, the exercise of volunteering is inadmissible. That is why we need to make these changes on the table as soon as possible. Volunteering occurs mainly in the judiciary, public administration, health and education, where new employment is simply not or is minimal compared to the offer of young people. Young people are the bearers of our new knowledge, and it is this group that is most vulnerable today in the labour market. Therefore, I propose that we re-establish a river that says to young people that counts for their work and that we allow them to have an opportunity in the labour market to show their knowledge and to receive a fair pay for their honest work. This is the only way we will allow our young people to see the future in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u29	Mr Jan Mahnic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u30	Thank you, President. With what the lady said last, it would be difficult for me not to agree more. It is precisely because each work counts and we are also following the objectives by proposing this matter. I believe that Mr Prikl has also put some excellent points forward. Especially in terms of why there are still so many professional trainings, traineeships and so on, why we do not do so at the time of schooling. I'm sure if we had, like, a dual school system, we'd need significantly less training. The Education Committee and I went to the University of Nova Gorica last week. I have to say that I really liked this visit and that I was quite fascinated by what I saw, even though some people call it the so-called private university. Their university is based on two fundamentals. One is research activity, and the other is education or knowledge transfer. And 70% of the focus is on research and 30% on educational activities, and at the University of Ljubljana it is very much reversed, and most professors are employed there in research activities. They have laboratories, they have research centres, they work for businesses, both domestic and foreign, and they acquire the knowledge that is necessary for practice there. They also sell this knowledge. So this university of knowledge, which it gives, is based primarily on practical training, is based on something concrete that they do, that they have concrete projects and that then this knowledge is also marketed and financed. I think we need more examples. This is, say, a university that costs only 1.8 million euros a year. And most importantly, I am convinced that this number is also due mainly to the fact that they have such a way of education, which 90% of the students of the University of Nova Gorica get a job within 12 months of graduation. He also said that it was not an ideal proposal. We have waited a long time to propose something better, even though it has only been six months, time has also been in the previous term. We know that there were two governments, they participated in both, and we could suggest. No proposal can be ideal for anyone else, but it is good that we have a debate on this. Both Mrs Jenko and Mrs Tomić mentioned the payment of contributions, the burden on employers, that it is sad, on the one hand, that it is necessary for them to be employed. But to me, there is something else sad about this country. That employers are so burdened that they are probably all most likely to expose the salary of the director of Krka Kolarič. They say he has, I don't know, about 62 thousand euros in wages. That's gross. But how much does the net get? Approximately 25,000 euros. And that's the cost to the employer. This is the cost that economists have to bear in this way. If these contributions were to be reduced, I believe that these people would ensure that they would have a better salary — not only by raising the minimum wage, because again, in addition to all the other burdens, we will put another burden on the employer. If you're downgrading, there's more money left to invest, there's more money left to pay for. But when there was a speech, how would we create some full - time employment — full employment in the system we have, we cannot establish. Full employment is created by other systems, about which we know how they end.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u31	Mr Tomaž Lisec, SDS, has the floor. Get Mrs. Irena Grošelj Kosnik ready, SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u32	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, you too have a nice greeting! We have before us a very similar law, as it was at the previous meeting, except that, according to the debate, we, above all, Members of the coalition, who said that the law, when we wanted to regulate the matter of traineeships in the labour law, had drawn up a slightly different law. I personally regret that during the same day we do not consider this law, which is before us, which speaks of traineeships, and the law that we discussed two days ago, which is the regulation of apprenticeship in the Slovenian educational system. At that time, perhaps even the Minister of Education, who is still opposed to the apprenticeship issue, might also listen to the opinion of the Minister of Labour or the Secretary of State and see that this is a complementary relationship or continuation of apprenticeship, apprenticeship, as young people know exactly what it is. I hope that today, until the vote, the members of the coalition may also change their opinion on that law, and give it, as well as this, a green light to deal with in further procedures. She's in the young world. At last, marriage, not because it's ours, so there won't be any mistake, which it does. Even today, I saw in one of the media that the government had already rushed when it called for 850 paid traineeships. So it's whether it's the government or the opposition. If we have smart marriage proposals, we can also make smart adoptions of these laws and consequently smart implementation of these laws. I particularly like it when we say, 'the young world is standing', that young people are also involved in these laws. I too have read the opinion of the Youth Council entitled We support efforts to regulate the field of volunteer traineeships, and I think the last two paragraphs are very important. Allow me to read them briefly: "In no way will we agree to a prestigious fight and credit for solving the problem." It is likely that today's unanimous support will be the best realization of this record. Above all, the last sentence is when it is estimated that the proposal for a law on measures is a good basis, which is still able to be upgraded in dialogue. Here we have the government's opinion, which in some cases has obviously already drafted some of its amendments. It is likely that the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly will also draw up some additional editorial amendments, and that young people will also be expected to make any more concrete or substantive amendments. I don't think we're going to have, as it were, taking credit for solving the problem, in the course of the process of dealing with the labour force, then again in the National Assembly, but we're going to try to resolve these problems unanimously. But, of course, it has to start somewhere, and it started when we gave young people the Labour Relations Act 2013 at least a paid lunch and paid transportation. This is likely to be a great encouragement to young people, especially employers. Well, if you'll excuse me, since we've been talking about this marriage for an hour and a half, maybe we haven't said enough about what this is all about. I have a feeling that young people will hear that it is a traineeship policy, that it is an exemption from employers' contributions to hire a trainee, and what a financial compensation it is for volunteer trainees, when young people can barely read these provisions, they will see what this is all about. Personally, I must say, I am a little negatively surprised at the government's opinion when it says that it is against the formulation of a policy for the implementation of traineeships for a period of five years. I have been in the National Assembly for quite some time, but we have adopted so many strategies, and they have probably been adopted before, not only for a five-year period, but also for a decade we have adopted resolutions, strategies, rules and I don't know what. So I think that it is necessary, given that the Ministry is already working on this issue, to prepare this policy for the implementation of the traineeship. I hope that the government, in particular the competent ministry, will consider whether it is really necessary to be against this policy of implementation of the traineeship or at least on a few pages to write and to have, as some of its own recommendations, both to ourselves and to everyone affected by this issue so that we can do something together. Personally, I think that this Article 4 is very much needed, i.e. the exemption to pay the employer's contributions, because I think that if employers are not willing to bite the apple with these incentives, so that they are exempt from paying the contributions, then we have done nothing. Also, the fact that the exemption from contributions is limited to the amount of contributions paid, the last average salary in the Republic of Slovenia is some adjustment so that we will not eventually get some problems again in practice instead of a solution. Above all, I also consider these transitional and final provisions, which we discussed in particular at the previous meeting on the same issue, when we record that within 15 days after the application of the individual Articles, the competent national authorities will harmonise the sub-legislative acts. And, as the proposalr, Comrade Jean, has already said, I really hope that these sub-laws will not be made by various trainees in these state bodies to do what they should do, some higher after the internship. In short, I also hope that the final text of the law will not give rise to a provision that says that the government will adopt a policy for the implementation of traineeships within 30 days. We can also give ourselves longer time, no problem, 60, 90 days, but I personally think that this policy of implementing traineeships would be a good incentive, especially that we are serious and not just serious about it. That I won't be too long. We have a law, we have a government opinion. If the law goes into further consideration, we will also have the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, we will probably have an even more concrete opinion of young people affected by this issue, and I believe that we will adopt a law at the February or the late March session, so that we can also say in the National Assembly that we are not just talking about young people, not talking about how the world stands on young people, but also by adopting smart legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u33	Mrs. Irena Grošelj Kosnik, SMC, has the floor. Prepare Mr Jožef Horvat, Nova Slovenija.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u34	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! Thank you for your word. Among young graduates, unemployment continues to grow. On the one hand, there is an increase in the number of graduates produced and, on the other hand, the market cannot absorb them that much. That is why we have about 9 000 surplus graduates in Slovenia each year. In doing so, annual surpluses are accumulated and many young people are therefore decided to continue the study. Among young people there are also the most special features in the mode of employment, reduced working hours, working hours for a short period, recreational work and also volunteering. All of this means a very uncertain life, and it also means poor single - parent opportunities. The number of young people between 15 and 29 years of age in Slovenia has decreased significantly since 2000. In 2010, about 9.5% of young people in Slovenia were less than in 2000. For both Slovenia and Europe, this means that we are increasingly facing the fact that there is an increasing proportion of young people among employees and, on the other hand, an increasing proportion of the old and inactive. Peripheral and less developed areas thus face brain drain, which means double loss for them — they move away young and educated. The large absence of young people among employees means additional poverty in the region as well as in the countries. In recent times, more and more young people have been looking for opportunities abroad, and we are losing special development and human resources potential because it is particularly interested in qualified graduates. Due to restrictions on employment in the public sector, the proportion of young people is also declining rapidly and the public sector is no longer receiving fresh blood. Young graduates in the public sector have no opportunity to gain work experience in their profession. Thus, the only solution for them was to agree to free traineeships, which are already over 800 within all ministries. In addition to training, they also perform a certain part of their regular work and are paid for it. In the Coalition Treaty, we are committed to this and pay particular attention to this problem. We also advocate the principle of each work. That is why I think it is good that this law goes into further consideration, of course, for the employment of young people. In doing so, I would also stress that it will be important to be able to draw on European cohesion funds to address this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u35	Mr Jožef Horvat, New Slovenia, has the floor. Get Mr. Primož Hainz ready, Desus.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! There are no government representatives at the moment. I agree with some of the colleagues and colleagues who have told everyone in the debate the known truth The young world stands. I agree. But today, colleagues and colleagues, we also need to ask ourselves another question: What are our young people on today? That's a key question. And what we are discussing today, this opposition law, these are the real themes for this assembly. And I want more of those. But not only to this, not only to the debate, but also to the key final effective solutions, including for other segments of the population. Even for old people, those who once had a so-called state pension have nothing today. And their voice can't be heard. They don't even come to our office. Maybe we'd be satisfied with at least 100 euros a month. These are also questions that we will have to put on the table sooner or later. I think we will also have to discuss on our committees how we effectively apply European solutions for young people. Here we have the Youth Guarantee, we have an alliance for apprenticeship, or we have really effectively implemented all these opportunities offered by the European Union for our young people. I want to draw a parallel with cohesion funds. To put it this way, Members of the EU Affairs Committee have requested continuous monitoring, quarterly monitoring of the use of cohesion funds. And what have we achieved? We have achieved a more efficient use of European funds. Granted, last year's local elections may have contributed to a more efficient use of European funds. Perhaps we should also consider and ask the government to also quarterly report on the implementation of the Youth Guarantee, the apprenticeship alliance here in Slovenia. This would be a constant, constant pressure on the government to take advantage of these things that Europe is offering us, and Europe is us that we are actually taking advantage of it. Of course, first of all, also the second theme, the 2020 strategy, the digital agenda, which I am talking about, we are hardly implementing anything. Mr Barroso, former President of the European Commission, drew one graph on the possibility of hiring ICT experts after the implementation of the digital agenda and when I made an extrapolation for Slovenia, I found that by 2016 we need 3 000 ICT engineers if the digital agenda, as adopted, were to be implemented in Slovenia. And I'm not the only one, there's quite a few people involved. It is true that too little is stated in the coalition contract that the coalition opposes voluntary unpaid traineeships — there must be solutions. Here I am, once again without offense, disappointed that the government has not come up with a solution that should actually be sent in accordance with the coalition treaty in this National Assembly, and that it is now doing so, thank God, the opposition and, thank God again, that we are all united here. Just one example, I remember one youth union, I'm not going to name it, last fall the coalition MPs wrote a letter about volunteering. This was immediately following the government's appearance and only the Mir Cerar Party's parliamentary group replied. The DeSUS Group and the Group of Social Democrats did not even respond. That's not good. We need to be in constant contact with young people, listen to them and take concrete solutions here. An interesting topic was also opened by Comrade Prikl when he said: “What about our education, do not people who work come to work immediately? That's the problem. A year and a half ago, my son listened to an older professor who had been laying on a slide chart and showing off printing machines from 100 years ago.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u37	Mrs. Irena Kotnik, SMC, has the floor. Get Mrs. Janja Slug ready, SMC.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u38	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The draft law provides for a review and analysis of the state of traineeships for a period of five years. However, as we know that the labour market situation is changing rapidly, measures should be adapted to the current situation, which means adapting labour market dynamics to the annual level. Of course, also in connection with all the actors involved. It is also necessary to review which segments of the traineeship are urgently needed. In the content of the law, however, I see the advantage mainly in the context of theory and practice, as we know that employers often point to the under-skilledness of young people who are entering the labour market for the first time or who have difficulties in employment, because in tendering conditions employers want a staff who already have experience in a particular area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u39	The word is Mrs. Janja Sluga, SMC. Get Mr. Marijan Pojbič ready, SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u40	Dear Mr. President, colleagues, colleagues! Thank you so much for saying that. As has been pointed out several times today, the direction of this SDS party proposal is good, and we support it in both the Group of Members and in the Coalition. Of course, there are some shortcomings that we intend to address and complement in the future process, but in principle, as stated, the issue is in line with the SMC's programme and also with the coalition contract, in which we committed ourselves precisely to what this proposal deals with, it is said that a system of paid traineeships is established. Of course, traineeships have more positive and more negative aspects. On the one hand, the principle of the social state, i.e. ensuring payment for each work, and the principle of each work, must be followed. After all, however, trainees do some work instead of employees to a certain extent. The other party, which must also be taken into account, is that, at the moment, there is a ban on public sector employment in order to face a lack of financial resources and, on the other hand, professions where the exercise of traineeships is necessary. In this light, volunteering can be the only possible way at this moment for some to do it. Of course, I agree that volunteering is an anomaly in the labour market and needs to be corrected. However, there are certain areas where traineeships differ slightly from classical traineeships. The purpose of classical training is to train someone to work alone in a specific job or a specific profession. For example, training in the field of legal examination is slightly different. It differs according to purpose, differs according to content and method of exercise and also during the duration of the traineeship itself. An intern preparing for the management of a legal examination is usually employed elsewhere. Nor is he usually held in court after eight hours a day, has a permanent job and has no special working conditions, but he does so in a manner that is thus agreed with the judge who is his mentor. In relation to these traineeships, it should also be noted that, since the entry into force of the Labour Relations Act in 2013, which introduced a mandatory reimbursement of performance costs, the actual travel costs and the food regression, the number of traineeships in this area has decreased significantly. If I give a specific number, there were only 25 in 2013 – 254 in last year until including November. Therefore, I believe that this area must be excluded from this common regulation and arranged carefully and separately. We welcome the exemption from the payment of contributions both during and after the duration of the traineeship itself, but I believe that there may be some room for manoeuvre here in terms of the duration of the exemption from those contributions. Perhaps even in the sense that only employers who offer to trainee for indefinite periods of time would not be exempt from payment. We might also consider that a certain amount of time may be allowed to make contributions for a period of time. However, the measure itself is in the light of active employment policy or even upgrading it because it does not exclude a group of those who are over 30 years of age and are indeed exempt from all the measures already implemented. Perhaps the measure of paid traineeships, as already stated by Mr Pikl, will also give rise to one reflection on how meaningful the traineeship is, or in some areas, probably more, and in others less. Perhaps our reflection could go this way and really justify the necessity of traineeship in some areas, while others may be able to see that it can be avoided. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u41	Mr. Marjan Pojbič, SDS, has the floor. Let Mrs. Marija Bachič prepare, SD.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u42	Thank you, Mr. President. I must say, in the introductions, of course, that this law, which we have tabled in the parliamentary procedure of the Slovenian Democratic Party, will be supported. In particular, I must say that I am pleased and pleased that this law, which we have tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party, is supported by the Government, supports all coalition parliamentary groups and I think that this law will experience a green light of second reading, which means that we can expect these solutions, which are also adopted in this bill, perhaps with some amendments, to the final vote. However, we will be able to work together to resolve this problem, which is extremely problematic and acute in this country. Today it has already been said that we have extremely high unemployment, which is absolutely true. We have almost 120 thousand unemployed, then we have 14,000 people working outside our borders, so migrants who are employed outside our borders, then we have the situation that last year has moved out of Slovenia, especially young people, somewhere between 6 and 7 thousand, that I am not talking about concealing unemployment. So we have a situation that is extremely problematic in this country. And every step taken by the National Assembly to improve this situation is a step in the right direction. When we proposed this bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we were also supported by the Youth Council of Slovenia. They are convinced that the bill is the right step in the right direction. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that what is not valid every day or almost every day in Parliament is that we are proposing laws to collect political points and so on and so on. It is this proposal of the law that proves the opposite: that we propose solutions that are acceptable and which are important and this time have also come across the fertile ground of all those who are sitting here in Parliament. And that's an important question. I think there must be a lot of such steps in the future, but at the same time I warn that there is no opposition in this country that will solve the crucial problem of this country – it must cooperate, it must help – but we have a coalition for this – but we have a government of the Republic of Slovenia to do so. It is sad, I must say that in the last, as I said in the debate yesterday or the day before, that we are mainly discussing the proposals put forward by the Slovenian Democratic Party, and this is what I find extremely problematic. Of course, I expect the government to take matters into its own hands slowly and start leading this country in the direction it has outlined in the coalition contract and in the direction that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia expect when they give their vote in the elections to this party or to the parties in the coalition. Today we have also heard that young people are unemployed there between 40% and 50%. This is an extremely, extremely problematic and alarming data. If, with the appropriate solutions adopted by the National Assembly, we are trying to solve the problem of unemployment in these structures, then we are doing what I think is right and fair. I think with this law, we're going to help a lot of young people get to work as soon as possible. And that's important. And this is important for these percentages that we have when we talk about youth unemployment, between 40% and 50%. That is why I take this opportunity and appeal to the government and coalition to really do things in a way that will solve this acute problem. Today, many sentences have been made regarding employment in the public sector. What about the real sector? What, though, is the real sector — one that creates the conditions for the public sector to live? We talk very little about this. If there were much more in this work, not only energy, but also legal solutions, and thus better conditions for the development of the economy in our country, we would also allow new jobs, new jobs and so on. I think that in this country we need to slowly understand and address the key and most important issue that we have, which is caused by unemployment, youth unemployment there between 40% and 50%, which is an extremely big problem, that we also start changing legislation and creating the right conditions for better economic development, that we really start working to eliminate credit cuts, to reduce taxes or burdens on the economy that are substantially high. We are very uncompetitive, and that is why so many are unemployed, especially the number of these unemployed young people seeking first employment. I think these are the fundamental problems of this country. We need to talk about this and do everything that is in the power of the National Assembly, talk about what is in the power of the National Assembly, to create the right conditions in this area, to enable the economy to function and that businesses will be able to re-employ and that they will be able to develop. I think it's very important that we all know that. This is not a problem that would be linked to the opposition, to any coalition. I think that this is a problem that is related to everything, not just those sitting here in the National Assembly, but other structures in this country are responsible for the situation as it is, but I think that we in the National Assembly must do everything in our power to do our work in the interest of these unemployed and in the interest of these young people to get a job as soon as possible. And this law that we've proposed here, I think it's also one step that goes this way. That is why I will also support this bill, which was tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party in the parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u43	Thank you. Mrs Marija Bachič, SD, has the floor to prepare Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. We have also advocated in the previous governments that traineeships in the public sector should be abolished wherever this is not an expertly based part of the education system. And we still stand in this position today. However, I believe that there will also be a need for a broader social and inter-ministerial reflection on how to proceed. We create surpluses educated in one, while there is a large hole in other areas. The education system needs to be more integrated and adapted to the needs of the economy. It is essential to carry out a long-term analysis of the labour market, which will highlight the reasons for strengthening the problem of the unemployment of educated young people. And then these analysis results find the right solutions. We are also doing no service to anyone through the general prohibition of employment in the public sector. Not to young people, not to our citizens. The case, unfortunately sad but still very talkative, is happening at the Clinical Center. The enormous mania of nurses will surely be known in the public health of our citizens. Savings already account for our people, which is reflected in the widespread deterioration of living standards. So, let's stop the internship where it's not necessary. Let's give people fair pay for honest work. Let's stop the abuse. Let us restore hope and dignity. Instead of smothering, let us promote the creativity of young people. Let us give them the opportunity to gain independence, to live their own destiny, and to realize their own desires. Let's give them a dream. Here I would only like to reply to Mr Pojbic, who has said so well and he does not agree in any way that we have now supported your proposal for a law. We always say, "let's go together." And if your proposal is good, let's support it, and if our proposal is good, let's support that. And this time it happened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr Ljubo Žnidar SDS has the floor to prepare Mr Simon Zajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Madam President. If I continue to discuss my predecessor, I am very happy here today, too, because the perseverance of the Slovenian Democratic Party is indeed well paid today. For this is already the third attempt to do something about the employment of young people on our part. Let us leave now ours, your side, in short, I am pleased that now the government and coalition parties have listened and that we really try to do something about the first employment of young people. I believe that further improvements, additions, can be added to this proposal in the next reading. But basically to the basic principle in this law – Each work is considered by the legislator cannot define specific laws where a particular work would not be paid and that the principle of the social state is followed in this law in order to ensure payment for each work done. Finally, what is essential is the incentive to relieve the employer of the employment of the trainees themselves. The law is operational, it is able to be implemented very quickly and, on the other hand, it is also a very good incentive for young people, who are thus given the self-confidence that is available, as well as the opportunity to find their first job. This is our future and, of course, young people need to be enabled and encouraged, given support and conditions to find their first job as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u47	Thank you. Mr Simon Zajc SMC has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Tanya Zink.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! When we had on the table the proposal to abolish volunteering in December, I agreed with the intention, not the way. The purpose is certainly good, let every work count. In addition, it prevents the abuse of volunteer traineeships, as we have seen so far as volunteer trainees have been used for free work, which has not been right. I also support all efforts aimed at enabling young people, including those over 30, like me, to enter the labour market as quickly as possible. I think that if it does not exploit young potential and their energy, there is a great deal of damage for society, and in my opinion it is also very difficult to repair, I therefore, of course, support these proposals in the law concerning active employment policies. Here I agree with the government that it will be necessary to consider in the future whether employers are really paid to justify paying contributions for two years, or whether it may not be enough for one year, given that payments are justified already in the traineeship phase. But this is a matter of debate in the future and it may be necessary to look even more closely at the numbers and calculate what is really worth more. The problems of this law can prove to be, as we have already heard today, so I would not repeat too much in the field of law or justice. There, as we have already heard, the law coordinates the inter-resortary and will be ready shortly, so that until the second reading this problem will probably be resolved. Since I'm going to support the marriage today, I'm not going to owe you any more. But I will make all my reservations and suggestions in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u49	Thank you. The word has magic. Tanya Zink, SMC. Let Mr Bojan Podkoršek prepare.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u50	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings for everyone on my side too! Youth unemployment in Slovenia is certainly a major problem. Slovenia is above average in the European Union by number of young people unemployed, and at the same time, we are growing even faster or faster. By the end of 2012, it had already exceeded 20% compared to, say, Germany, Norway or Switzerland, where unemployment was 7% or 8%. This does not mean, however, that we can be comforted by still being far from the youth unemployment rate in Greece or Spain, where there is a percentage over 40. Analysis shows that in many cases young people in the labour market are in a poorer situation compared to other age groups, which is influenced by several factors. It is not only bad conditions in the labour market, we also have an educational system which is not in line with the labour market situation. In particular, we are lacking in trade professions for which there is no interest among young people, too much interest in social professions, too few new jobs and, unfortunately, employers are too often looking for people with experience. While data for 2014 show an improvement in the situation of young people in the labour market, we should not ignore the fact that employment opportunities continue to deteriorate for first-time job seekers with tertiary education. The problem of youth unemployment, however, has a much broader dimension, and it is not only that the consequences are reflected directly in the career area. Young people don't have enough resources to live with, they stay dependent on their parents, they can't rent an apartment, they can't buy it, they can't build a family, and so on. The next increasing result of youth unemployment in our country is their eviction. According to the Statistical Office, in 2013, a thousand 570 young citizens moved out, 10 times more than a year earlier. And this is certainly a worrying information, especially because Slovenia remains relatively closed for the immigration of foreign citizens. We can say that Slovenia is in fact losing very important social capital in this way. The growing problem is the unemployment of young graduates, in particular women graduates in the fields of health, education, social, humanism, where there is already the greatest shortage of jobs, and there is no surprise at the results of studies that also suggest poor employment opportunities for women due to possible motherhood. In this way, the problem of youth unemployment is in fact a general social problem that will require a strategic approach and coordination of all policies that are concerned in one way or another in the future. If I now refer to the proposal for a law on traineeship measures proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, I must say that we agree with the purpose of the proposal, but above all this proposal is more acceptable than the one proposed by the same opposition party, because this time it does not forget the sectoral legislation. And believe me, it's not political prestige, which was evident to the coalition by the proponent. The problem of volunteering undoubtedly needs an appropriate solution. After all, this was also the commitment of the coalition agreement. It is only necessary to find an appropriate solution that will be of greatest benefit to young people. To conclude, however, I would like to stress that the new law should not mean less traineeships, because a newly regulated traineeship from a financial point of view for employers might be uninteresting and would in fact limit the last possibility for young people to train. We must not forget that volunteers were interesting because they were such cheap labour. And more importantly, many young people were the only way out to be able to do their own work and to join the professional exam. These are questions to which we must have clear answers when adopting this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor, SDS. Get Dr. Jasna Murgel ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u52	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear fellows and fellows, a lovely greeting on my behalf as well! I am also pleased that, after some of the efforts of the Slovenian Democratic Party, this proposal is once again a bill on our tables, and I am particularly pleased that, finally, everyone in this Chamber, including the government, is aware that this law, which the Slovenian Democratic Party has been trying to enforce for the third time, is still important for Slovenia and especially for our young people. Many times it is difficult for a man, now also as a Member, when a young man, educated, comes to you and his only problem, which is the biggest one I can hardly imagine, is not getting a job. Of course, when this young protruding, how hard it was for his parents to teach him, how hard it was to raise funds, and how hard it was for him to go from wedge to wedge. When he came to the finish line, he didn't get a job. We're talking about traineeship today. Of course, the past is that this young man goes to the company and has to work without pay. Personally, I think this law is still very important. When a young person is looking forward to earning the first euro, but has to work for a few months without pay and then loses his job, it seems very unfair to me very much, I think, humiliating for a young citizen who wants to stay in the Republic of Slovenia to work for this Slovenia. Of course, he will also work for the pensions that some already receive, while others will receive. Young people find it very difficult to enter the labour market. There are many obstacles here, and they enter this labour market very late. That's why I think it's so much more important. Today's debate is also one proof that if we know how to listen to one another, if we all know each other, together with the government, to see the problems our citizens and citizens have outside this hall, we can come to a good marriage. That is why I will be happy to support this law myself, and I also appeal to everyone in the Chamber to support this today when the vote is taken, and to bring together more good laws that will be in favour of the Slovenes and the Slovenians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u53	Thank you. The word is Dr. Jasna Murgel, SMC. Get Mr. Jože Tanko ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u54	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The possibility of dramatic contributions, as said by Comrade Prikl, is out of the question because we have already expressed our readiness to support this law. However, as I always fall on the subject of justice, I will once again place a little more emphasis on the need for a special regime of judicial traineeships. This traineeship is regulated by the Law on the Law of State Examination. The purpose of the judicial traineeship, or why this traineeship differs from other compulsory ones, is simply to acquire compulsory knowledge, compulsory traineeships, in order to be able to perform a legal examination, so-called a judicial examination, in the past we have called it that. In the past, most candidates have had the opportunity and now they have the opportunity to choose either to work in a court or in a higher court or to perform this practice, a traineeship within a volunteer traineeship. In a few years, the number of volunteer trainees in the courts has shown a significant increase. Previously, we have heard that by 2014, as a result of the amendment of the Labour Relations Act, it has been reduced, but the basic purpose either of this traineeship, when someone is employed as a trainee in a higher court or if he is working voluntarily, and there he is not employed, is only to obtain conditions for carrying out a legal examination. This applies to one or another form of traineeship. The purpose of this traineeship is to provide training for the performance of judicial functions and judicial professions, i.e. not only judicial professions, such as prosecutions or lawyers, and for other works for which the law requires a legal examination. This means that the trainee shall not be trained for self-employed work in a specific job, which is the purpose of traineeships under the Labour Relations Act-1, but of judicial training for training as a preparation for accession to this legal state examination. As far as volunteering is concerned, this is so specific that these interns have been employed for most of the time since they were employed by another employer, not in court, but only have been in court for as long as it takes to get the relevant experience to carry out the practice as preparation for the legal examination. These are also the justifications of the Ministry of Justice, which I agree that this area needs to be regulated differently. That is why I will also support this solution in further discussion and even when the Ministry of Justice puts its proposal on the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr Jan Mahnic asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Vice President. I am pleased, after two hours of discussion, that tonight, after the vote, we will obviously send a clear signal to the young people that we are in favour of stopping volunteer traineeships. However, I have heard from you several times that there is a problem, and I also think that the government has written here in its opinion that they do not exactly agree that employers, who then employ this trainee for an indefinite period of time, would be justified in paying contributions for 24 months. But we have this right now in the Youth Guarantee. So you'd expect to change things there. On the one hand, on the Youth Guarantee, you don't mind 24 months, but there's a prerequisite that someone's still in the institution three months ago. Obviously, you're not exactly up for a long period of time here. As I have also seen from the opinion of the government, I fear that you will shorten the matter. In the case of traineeships, it is an important measure or, above all, a similar one to that of the Youth Guarantee. Some young people will then get a job on this account – when we stimulate employers by specifically exempting them in this case from paying contributions for two years, as proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party, I believe that young people will also receive a wide range of jobs on this account, then for an indefinite period of time, and thus, of course, we contribute to the resolution of unemployment. However, I have also heard such debates that it is reasonable to ask whether traineeships in Slovenia are necessary. I believe that in Slovenia this internship is needed mainly because of the educational system we have in Slovenia. As former colleagues in Desus have found, the Slovenian school system, where it is professional, professional, or other, such as what social colleges, does not provide sufficient practical knowledge. And that would also give us practical knowledge. As long as we have such a school system as we have it, until we think about introducing some apprenticeship or introducing a dual school system, as we suggested in the SDS on Tuesday, then things such as traineeships will be necessary. I hope, given that there will probably be many amendments, that this proposal, which we have now proposed, will then come out in a completely different light, that you will not shorten the strategy to be drawn up by the government from five years to less, so that you will not reduce this exemption for the payment of the contribution from 24 months to one year or as much as you have in mind and so on. We agree with some technical changes, but we hope that at least those that are written here and which are major, which we consider to be major, will remain. Because we support paid traineeships, but to make some radical change to this proposal, we will find it difficult to agree.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr Jože Tanko SDS has the floor to prepare Mrs Suzanne Lepi Šimenka.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye to all of you! I can say that the Slovenian Democratic Party is in a slightly easier situation than other parties, even coalition ones. Not because we are an opposition party, but mainly because we have prepared a well-split pre-election programme with the measures envisaged. The solutions that we have at this meeting of the National Assembly are the solutions that come from our pre-election program. I must say that this package of youth legislation has also been evaluated, evaluated, broken down, and in fact we are now in a position to implement this pre-election programme, whether we are in a coalition or we are in opposition. Unfortunately, too many times, we have to go into the legislative process several times with these solutions that we are proposing. It never or almost never happens that our solution is supported by the Government or the coalition, but we must repeat this exercise once, twice, sometimes three times, so that then only this coalition mechanism is turned around and that some positive support or at least does not oppose the solutions or solutions we are proposing. Also, what we have at this meeting in this law or in what we have considered on Tuesday is exactly the same. And it is likely that there will have to be a repeat of the implementation or implementation of the apprenticeship solution. We will also take into account any comments and we will repeat the matter. As far as regulating the co-financing of traineeships is concerned, I think it is a very good measure, especially since resources are provided. I think this measure is much better than co-financing public works, because this is a purposeful funding, to finance what graduates or even high school students tend to be educated, and it is not just artificially creating certain needs in the public sector or generally in the public sector and in public-owned enterprises as well. This is also a measure that allows companies to benefit from these ratings, and the key advantage of this law is that it allows testing in companies of all those coming out of the educational system, and the country also co-finances part of these costs in this part. In view of the fact that young people have or are most flexible, including as regards migration work, this is one of the measures by which this young educated youth can be held back more and given work in the domestic economy, as well as in other segments. I don't think young people want me to know how many years they've been doing some of the approximate public service, but they want to work primarily in the area they've been trained to work for. For example, it is difficult to employ a machineman in some public part of home care. It is much better to establish conditions, provide resources and allow these educated, say, technically educated people to get jobs in technical sectors. I also think that we should launch in other areas of this mechanism. I think there is no problem that the measures now in force are complemented by the ones we are proposing. There is no reason for any other matter to deteriorate in order to shorten the co-financing period or anything else. There's no need for that. If the country collects money to finance the budget through taxes, debt or the sale of state property and those tasks that the budget is supposed to have, it is, in my opinion, one of the key things to be targeted in the area of youth employment. Sometimes these debates also reveal that opposition parties – most likely to be here at the SDS strike – are proposing laws whose enforcement is relatively familiar. It is necessary to know that the procedural restrictions are such that the opposition, because it does not manage the budget, cannot, after regulation, propose some solutions with financial implications for the period for which the budget is adopted, but can only for the period after the adoption of the budget or for the period in which the effects will arise and the budget will be adopted. This is a possibility only the government has to propose rapid changes. Such solutions — this is what I would like to say — when we have to take this into account, there is likely to be something else in this year. All these things are to be settled in the legislative process with the amendments, probably for such things it is the will. I also hope for a similar constructive position. Not only is the constructiveness of opposition parties and SDS expected in certain government proposals, but we expect above all that there will be a coalition when we propose some solutions that are necessary and are better than coalitions to support these solutions. The law we're proposing is already like this. I think that, before the vote, a good consideration should also be given to the decision in the law on dual education. This is a complementary part of youth policy and education. I think the coalition should also consider that law, which key will push. However, it certainly shows that both laws support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u59	Thank you. Mrs. Susana Pretty Šimenko, SDS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Madam President. All present Members of Parliament are well-welcome! In particular, we would welcome our visitors, and if the information on the National Assembly website is correct, these are students from the Central School for Design and Photography. They're sneezing. They say they're holding. They came to the meeting at the right time because the darkness is really real to them. Much has been heard today, and I am very glad that this area has so much support for all parties. I'd like to mention something. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have proposed two laws at this meeting, which are quite interlinked. The first concerned a dual system of vocational education and the second concerned traineeships. First, unfortunately, it is unlikely that he will receive support for the vote today, while luckily for another on the subject of traineeships we can hope to do so. Why does this seem important to me? Because it was also through the debate the power to understand that our education system was certainly not good. We have many deficit jobs in the country, and a lot of them are in the metal manufacturing industry, for example. This may be something that we may face even more in the end of my Styrian era — why — because it is near Austria. A lot of people, even if they're going out for a job, they'd rather go to work abroad. However, if in the first place we have a regulated system of education and, in the second instance, traineeships, I believe that many of the young will prefer to remain in Slovenia. Among them there is no great desire to leave, but they are leaving because they are easily here or hard to get or whatever, better paid for their work across the border. I'll mention the company from my end, more precisely from Kidric's, where there are a thousand 130 employees. This is a manufacturing company, and they are hired at around 40 each year, and they face a problem — a lack of technical staff. The Secretary of State, I believe he knows this company very well, as well as the problem it faces. And what did they do? It is easy for businesses to find out for themselves, they have made informative days where students in the ninth grade can watch live how work is actually going on in one of these professions today. They can come into production live and the employees show them this work. Why is that important? This is important to get an idea of this profession at all, to see that in fact production is no longer dirty today, that many productions are very orderly and that work there can also be very pleasant. This is one of the ways in which the employer can essentially provide a good staff and, of course, future employees in practice see how their work is going. Unfortunately, it is such that there is an increasing interest in vocational education, in some technical way. If we make it possible to train, I believe that there will be more companies that will seek their own personnel in this way. I think we're good enough to help all these companies, too. That is why I think this proposal that we have before us today is very good. Firstly, it eliminates volunteer traineeships, which are in themselves a disaster, because it is actually the exploitation of young people and it is totally unacceptable at that time, and, secondly, it gives incentives to employers and businesses to employ young people. And not just that! What really matters to me is that after the traineeship, we continue to encourage the employer of the young person to work indefinitely. A job for an indefinite time for young people is now almost like winning a lottery, a lotteries. It is really important, for this is the period when they will begin to make a family. For this reason, I wish that this time, these 24 months, would not be cut short for a short period of time, because I think it is crucial and really important. As I have already pointed out, I am pleased that we are so united in supporting this law, and I believe that today it will go to the next reading. Thanks in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u61	Thank you. Mr Dejan Levanič, State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that. A number of things were mentioned during the debate, but the key thread was actually said. So, if it is a sincere intention to abolish volunteer traineeships in the country and to provide funds for paid traineeships, then I believe that we will come up with appropriate solutions during the debate, which will also allow this to happen. But in the meantime, we need to clear up some concepts, then it will be easier essentially how we get there, because we have different groups in the labour market that have different needs and everyone needs to adjust to find such appropriate measures that will actually provide young people with long-term employment. Of course, we want jobs for an indefinite period of time. Why was the payment period or exemption for employers repeatedly exposed? We now have a measure in a country where an employer, if employed by a young person for an indefinite period of time, is entitled to pay contributions for another gross. We wanted to encourage employers to employ young people for an indefinite period of time, although this was a little easier when the Labour Relations Act was adopted, especially because employers were afraid of the problem of forgiveness or how to forgive someone for an indefinite period of time if it was tied to them for an indefinite period of time. This part is easier now, but although there is still one concern with employers, we wanted to encourage them to employ young people for an indefinite period of time – and the measure is quite successful. The number of young people who have been employed for an indefinite period of time is already flying in over 3,000, which is good, we want more. Although we have announced a slightly higher number, given the economic situation, we understand that sometimes it is not possible to achieve all these jobs that we are working for. In addition, we are still fed up with or have been experiencing a bit of economic growth in 2014. We believe, we see that economic growth is improving, and we hope that this will also lead to greater employment. Once we have foreseen this measure, we must be very careful now what we will do with the exemption measure for trainee contributions. In order not to encourage employers to take this measure instead of temporary employment, so the payment of traineeships, which is time-limited, is for a certain period of time, and at that point the measure, which is intended for an indefinite period of time, comes up very quickly. It's not a problem to oppose the period. We can sit down, see what this means, and reward employers if they hire young people for an indefinite period of time. Our proposal was also to employ a large number of people, including young people, in every financial perspective, to help draw on European funds. We suggest that these people are employed for an indefinite period, because the duration of the project is 7 years and it is known that it is a certain period, but contracts can be for an indefinite period of time, because this enables young people to live on their own, to gain independence, to take credit and so on. That is why we have done our utmost to encourage more time-consuming employment through the measures we are proposing. Indeed, the Slovenian Democratic Party is in this moment in a slightly easier situation, not because it has this written in the programme, it is in all the parties' programmes – the abolition of volunteer traineeships, but because it does not need to anticipate the financial consequences that such legislation also entails. It is therefore necessary to define clearly once again in the ministries where these traineeships are needed, why they are necessary, when necessary, for someone to be able to approach the examination, and the question at all whether we still need traineeships in certain segments. We have a different area today, and we need to look at it, so at the Ministry, when we took the initiative in general to go to the public to get rid of volunteer traineeships, we called on the ministries to prepare changes to the sectoral legislation, to see exactly where they needed traineeships, why they needed them, and to provide certain means that these traineeships would actually be paid. If tomorrow we delete the traineeships from all the sectoral laws that we are aiming at, and force the ministries to become paid for traineeships, then we will also have to provide financial resources so that these traineeships can be financed. Here, given the situation, this is even if you were sitting on the government side now, you would have the same challenge, I will call it, finding financial resources for such jobs, because you know that the situation such as it is does not allow all the desires you would simply want to do. That is why we have made every effort to draw on European funds. We are a ministry that has drawn very close to 100% of the funds available from European funds. Today, the Employment Service of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenia has already published an invitation to tender for paid traineeships, 850 young trainees who will not have the condition to be in the Employment Service for 3 or 6 months. Only upon admission to the institution will it allow them to join the paid traineeships programme. These will be 850, at the moment 5 million of the total mass that we have already talked about and which is repeatedly highlighted. But we're waiting for a new financial perspective. On our side, the programs are ready. We need to adopt a regulation and extensions in the system so that we can also start drawing funds. We'll do this part at the Ministry. Once again, thanks to a team at the Ministry, which can do this very well and has also proved that this moment is one of the few resources available, namely, the European Union funds or from various funds, we know how to do it and we have done it. Let me tell you why I want us to come up with constructive solutions and find solutions together. It is no longer an important coalition: opposition in terms of who proposes better. If we find the best proposal through the debate, we complete it and finally do something good, it seems to me that people will reward it, not that we are repeatedly alerting ourselves here to who is better and who has no better solution. Because there are also trends that have shown that we do have positive results in 2014 regarding the employment of unemployed people. I have a graph in front of me that clearly shows that in the last 20 years we have hired the most unemployed people in 2014 – we did not delete them from the register! That's the most important thing. And the number of flights in excess of 70 000, which is, in terms of what were the employment opportunities in the economy, only the point where we can say that the measures taken under the guarantees are within the framework of the second active employment policy, that these measures are actually very important for employers and all those actually using these measures. Previously, it was said that the exemption to pay contributions to trainees is a better measure than public works. These two measures cannot be compared. That is why I once again said that we have different measures in the labour market that are tailored to different target groups with different needs. We are talking about traineeships when a young person from the education system enters the labour market – he needs to be grabbed and included in the labour market at the moment. This is the purpose of the Youth Guarantee. Public works are coming through the board of active employment policies in the last place, because the last measure is where you allow someone who is long-term unemployed to work. We have therefore fought hard at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities to increase public works funds to the same extent as public works in 2014, because it is better that people are employed than that they are in the institution and receive monetary compensation, even if they are public works, because they are people who have great difficulties in entering the market, who have great difficulties in retraining and, say, processing a new job and are in the institution for more than a year. This means that they are outside the system, that they have major problems and that they can be reintroduced in some way through public works programmes, and we hope that they can remain in this system for a long time. These measures are more than 36. We will continue to work together in dialogue with young people, with political parties, civil society to find measures that will actually have a positive impact on the long-term employment of young people. This must be the goal for all of us. Let me tell you one more example, for example, one of the Entrepreneurship World programmes where we "close young people" and hire them for six months, acquire the opportunity of mentor, create their own idea, become independent, employ, work on the market, receive the first prize among the active employment policy projects in the European Commission, that is to say by drawing on these funds. We've shown one part that we know in this area. I agree, however, that there is still a manoeuvre to propose better measures that will take longer and allow young people to work long-term. Therefore, in our position, it was only that any ad hoc solutions — that we have already learned — need to see what it really means to erase at some point everything that will result in long-term harm, so that we will not accidentally do more harm than good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u63	Thank you. I also give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u64	Thank you, Vice President. If I may say so as an opposition Member – although we did not express it today when you spoke of a sincere purpose – it was a little late. You have been there for two years now, and that we now accept our proposal, you can see this sincere purpose. As far as you are concerned, as you said, the government will have to be careful, because we have different professions, everyone has a different specificity, and that is why we propose that the government adopt a five-year strategy in which all this issue and all its visions that it has will then also define on this matter. This number of 3,000 young people for an indefinite period – you have predicted more – and I mean that it is a result, an indicator that some things have moved; because every more young person who is employed counts any young person who is more employed to bring more to the state than it does. But I have one problem, let's say, by thinking, if I really understand the fear that, in the event that we could legislate this proposal, the traineeship will be put in place in such a way that then the employer who continues to employ this trainee after the end of the traineeship period for an indefinite period of time is released from the payment of contributions then for 24 months, that employers start using it and then suffers from that Youth Guarantee measure. Here I am of the opinion – and also, as far as I have spoken with the economists – that when they receive one young person when they receive one, we can say that they have a very favourable financial education especially in practice when they have one year in their possession and will know those working habits, the environment and everything, it is not in the employer's interest to forgive such a young person. Of course, it also happens, of course, that such things can be exploited, but whoever acts as a good master, believe me, that someone who will then be taught there for 12 months was a mentor and helped him to gain, above all, practical experience, that such an employer, if only by himself and how he does business, would not get rid of such a young person. Of course, there are facts, that is to say that it is different if the opposition party proposes, in particular from the point of view, as far as financial means are concerned, but that is why we went into this matter because you said that the funds were provided at the time. Of course, these things will have to be adjusted. I hope it will not be a tertiary sector, although here, in the government's opinion we have received, we have seen that the share of unemployed young people between 15 and 29 years of age is virtually the largest in the tertiary sector. In December 2008, this amounted to 11.9% and today it amounts to 20.2%, while the level of education remained approximately the same, while the level of education fell from 24.5% from 24.3% to 18.3%. Of course, measures must be implemented in all areas. One more thing. Mr Secretary, as you have said, we also agree and welcome your success in drawing on European funds. Here's just to congratulate you and call for some other ministers or other ministries to teach you how to do it so that at least they'll be as successful as you are.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u65	Thank you. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I can't see. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. On a daily basis, this is an act of defence on the determination of a parliamentary investigation to determine the political liability of public function holders in the investment in Block 6 of the thermoelectrical Fragmentation. The request for the introduction of a parliamentary survey pursuant to Article 93 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of 67 Members and Members with Mr Matjaž Hanžk, the first to sign. For further explanation, I give the floor to Mr Matjaž Hanžk, representative of the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u66	Dear President, comrades and comrades, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! As the first to be signed under the request for a parliamentary inquiry to determine the political responsibility of public function holders in investing in Block 6 of the Šostanj Termoelectrica, I would first like to thank all Members and Members of Parliament who have joined in this matter. The others, however, are invited to assist in this investigation, as it is of paramount importance for the further development of social relations or democracy in our country. This is a breakdown of what we call the kidnapping of a country and an impact on the prevention of such events in the future, with the desire to put an end to the acts that are already taking place at this time. As you've noticed, we haven't recorded any names in the request for investigation. In it we wrote only the facts, the chronology of actions in this tragedy, without regard to the political option that was in power, the chronology of the tragedy that led to the financial and ecological disaster called TES 6. TER 6 is not a lonely case, but with its final price, it is the 1.4 billion and the long-term negative effects it will have, the most screaming symptom of the phenomenon we call the kidnapping of the country. Abduction of a country that also manifests itself in the case of the actions of the so-called bad bank, coercion by privatization in the field of health, infrastructure and so on. It is our duty to get the names and surnames of those who are politically responsible for TES 6 in the first place from a request that does not contain names and surnames. The names of all those responsible, regardless of political colour or client! The task before us is to set limits for those who, according to the slogan of the preparers of the investment TES 6 claimed that "there are no energy limits". This slogan, concentrated, represents the ideology of state kidnappers, for which there is no limit. A new parliamentary call, in which parties who are not mainly burdened with the TES 6 project, is an excellent opportunity to do so. Let me freshen up the reasons why we need to investigate the political responsibility of public officials. In view of the suspicion that they would abandon the debt treatment of the alleged insufficient legal basis for the start of an investment in Block 6 of the TEC, they would tolerate an almost 2.5-fold increase in the price and would damage the interests of the State by accepting a State guarantee without ensuring the financing and profitability of the investment. In view of the suspicion of systematic ignoring the calls of some independent experts, the majority of NGOs and civil society, and some politicians in the timely cessation of the project and the re-checking of baseline data and their legitimate concerns about what was highlighted when receiving the loan guarantee in the National Assembly, and in opposition to the project of some ministers in the government. In view of the suspicion that they should abuse their political influence and allow for violations of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the coordination of procurement procedures in the water, energy and transport sectors and the postal services sector or the Public Procurement Act in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors. In view of the suspicion of abandonment of the obligation to provide instructions to the Government's representatives in the supervisory authorities of the Slovenian Power Plants and the TEC for the achievement of transparent and cost-effective management of the investment, by allowing a repeated overriding of the powers of HSE and TEC management authorities and by abandoning the identification and enforcement of the liability of managers and supervisors. In view of the alleged abandonment of the obligation to verify the reliability of the data transmitted by the management of the TES and Holding of the Slovenian Power Plants for the acquisition of the State guarantee for loans to the European Investment Bank amounting to 440 million. In view of the alleged advance notification that the final investment price of EUR 1.3 billion for the State guarantee is not achievable and will actually exceed the amount of EUR 1.42 billion and, in this regard, the consequent deliberate misleading of the Government and the National Assembly. Due to the alleged lack of control over information and the acquisition of data on quality, stocks and the purchase price of coal to be used in TEM 6, those responsible for the investment decision did not check the stocks of coal. The Coal Stocks Laboratory was not acquired until 2010, nor were they able to provide the projected coal prices for the entire expected operating period. As a result of the suspicion that a comprehensive environmental impact assessment has not been carried out, the project should contain, in accordance with the legislation in force, at the beginning of the procedure, within which the search for the optimal variant of possible project solutions should also be carried out, taking into account the environmental and spatial burdens. In particular, the Parliamentary Investigative Commission intends to clarify and clarify all the facts and circumstances as to how the legal basis for the investment of a state-owned enterprise can be the Resolution on National Development Projects for the period 2007-2023, which was not published in the Official Journal and which has been recognised by the Constitutional Court as an act which is neither a regulation nor a general act issued for the exercise of public powers and is therefore not competent for the Constitutional Court to judge. To clarify all the facts and circumstances of the creation of alleged legal bases for the implementation of the investment in the TES Block 6, including the reasons for the formation and signature of an allegedly severely harmful contract and for the unilateral benefit of a foreign supplier, the contract being governed by Swiss law and the competent court establishing a court in Switzerland. To clarify all the facts and circumstances and to assess the actual state of financing of the investment in Block 6 of the Heat Power Plant of Šostjanj, including the unsatisfactory insurance of the issued State guarantee for 440 million European Investment Bank loans, as the Court of Auditors issued its opinion with reservation. To determine why representatives of the Government or the Republic of Slovenia, as owners of HSE and TES supervisory authorities, have permitted allegedly illegal activities in the investment in TES Block 6. To determine why the representatives of the Government or the Republic of Slovenia, as the owner, have allowed lending activities to finance this investment without the final unique and credible documentation in the form of updated investment programmes, while the Government is still waiting for the NIP 6 to be submitted by the Holding of the Slovenian Power Plants in March 2014 and to determine whether individuals, public function holders, or whether they have misused their political impact on the granting of loans, have been involved in the granting of their consent. To find out why the Government is abandoning the identification and enforcement of compensation liability for state-owned enterprises and supervisors, namely HSE and TES. Identify political responsibility for the alleged suspension of duty and engagement of the State Defence Office to protect the material interests of the Republic of Slovenia. To establish the political responsibility of individual holders of public functions due to the suspicion that they have allowed non-compliance with the Law on Public Procurement in Energy and have allowed contracts with foreign and domestic suppliers to be in force, thereby leaving the obligation to determine the nullity of the contracts in question. To determine whose interests and what interests have led to the abandonment of the activities envisaged by the Government on the basis of the Commission's public letter to prevent corruption at the time of its resignation in December 2013. Identify the facts and circumstances for late adoption of the necessary policy decisions that have affected the promotion of investment. The request for a commission of inquiry to determine the political responsibility for a financial and environmental disaster with the name TES 6, as I have already mentioned, does not contain any personal names, and the result of the commission of inquiry must be found to be political responsibility. Names and surnames of all those responsible that the TES 6 disaster has even occurred; names and surnames of all those responsible, regardless of political colour or client. I believe that a new parliamentary call is an opportunity for us to actually come to this, because we are mostly sitting in this business by unburdened Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As Members and Members of the Desus Group are aware of the dimension of the issue related to the construction project of the 6th block of the Termoelectrica Šostanj, we have decided to co-sign the request for a parliamentary inquiry to determine the political responsibilities of public function holders in the investment in Block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectrica. In the Desus Group, we believe that the identification of political responsibility is the only serious way to ensure that non-transparent business in the construction of the 6th block is finally cut once and that all irregularities are investigated, detected and then prosecuted in cooperation with the Slovenian law enforcement authorities in accordance with Slovenian criminal law. We therefore believe in the success of the investigative commission in our parliamentary group, whose aim is to expose irregularities in the construction of the 6th block of TES. As we said at the previous regular meeting, when we discussed the recommendations on the issue of the investment of the construction of the TES 6 block, in our delegation group we believe that the lack of transparency of this project is not the fault of only one government, because the construction project of the 6th block has dragged on so long that quite a few governments and several competent ministers have changed. Unfortunately, all of us, together because of our naivety and inaction, were unintentionally allowing the project to be turned into a non-transparent project and its value grew across all borders. Because no government in the Republic of Slovenia has done anything to stop the project, or at least initiate appropriate procedures to explore what is actually happening with the construction of the 6th block, that its price of the initial 690 million euros has risen to more than 1.4 billion euros. As we have already said, in the Desus Group, we all feel that we must acknowledge together that part of the blame for the situation is borne by some of the last parts of the National Assembly, if not by others, and by our naivety. The MPs have repeatedly occupied HSE manipulations, if everything bad awaits this country and the Shale Valley in case the construction project of the 6th block is stopped. So we listened to and believed the threats that we would lose sovereignty in the supply of electricity if the project was not completed. One of the threats was that the Republic of Slovenia would pay more than 100 million alstom compensation if the project stopped. We also listened to the threat of a social bomb, which we will launch if the project does not continue, as hundreds of people will lose their jobs. However, it appears that due to the low buying-in price of coal, the social bomb will obviously trigger the TES itself, as wholesale coal buys at a significantly lower price than was planned in the project itself. The questions of the Desus Group on the sustainability and meaning of the project have always been answered by HSE representatives in the above-mentioned way; therefore, the pressure on the most sensitive points, which are, of course, the social security of employees in the Velenje and TES mines and the surrounding population, as well as the care to ensure the self-sustainment of the Republic of Slovenia with electricity. However, since Slovenian criminals and prosecutors finally responded by conducting investigations and detaining certain responsible persons, the cases began to move in the right direction. People who bear the most responsibility for the 6th-block project being able to prove themselves to be one of Slovenia's biggest energy affairs began to be sought. On the other hand, the parliamentary investigation will, hopefully, point to those holders of public functions that bear the greatest political responsibility in that the construction of the 6th block of TEC has become the most infamous investment in Slovenian energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Ms Andreja Katič will present the views of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u70	Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The investment in Block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectrica is one of the largest investments in energy in Slovenia. Since the beginning, opinions in Slovenia have been shared, as have opinions on solar and wind energy, but the fact that two billion euros will be spent on renewable energy subsidies, with only 5% of the total electricity production in Slovenia. Electricity has been produced in Šostanje since 1956. For a number of years, electricity is produced at the Termoelectric power plant Šostanj for one third of all Slovenian needs. The profession is largely unified that the TEC is important not only because of the quantity of electricity produced but also or, in particular, because of system services, mainly secondary regulation. In Slovenia, they offer a secondary regulatory reserve mainly for thermal power plants – Thermal Power Plant Šostanj – and certain hydroelectric power plants, which need to be stressed that the ability to offer secondary regulation for the latter in the event of adverse hydrology is considerably limited. TES has obtained all the necessary consent from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the ministries of the sector so far for the construction of Block 6. The government included the project in the Resolution of the National Energy Programme and in the Resolution on national and development projects for the period 2007-2023, which was adopted in 2006 and revised in 2008, and was also included in the Green Paper for the National Energy Programme of Slovenia in spring 2009. The first estimate was €691 million, but in 2006, the investment value was €70 million. And this was probably the first real cost assessment of the project, everything else was more or less estimates over the thumb. In NIP 2, which was prepared immediately after the signing of the 2008 contract, the investment value at current prices was EUR 1 billion 424 million. NIP 3 was prepared in November 2009, where, at the request of HSE, it was said here at one of the previous meetings of the previous committees, it was necessary to reduce the investment value to a billion EUR 189 million and that the value was undervalued at that time. I repeat, at the request of HSE! And also in NI P4 and 5, the value was artificially reduced to EUR 302 million. It is likely that in the NIP 6 there are summaries of all the documents listed, including indicators of the economy of investment and explanations of the derogations. In an interview with the local newspaper Our Time said, I quote the publication of 27 November 2014: "When I arrived in 2012 at HSE, we were asked by the HSE management to check if there is any other comparable building, which is also in construction. A comparable object means the same power, the use of comparable energy, comparable technology and efficiency. The data could suggest that the block 6 project was even slightly cheaper than the others." End of quote. This was said by the director who enjoys the trust of the current leadership. We want the Social Democrats to find out who did something wrong and to be responsible for machine irregularities. Social Democrats want things to be thoroughly investigated. As we have already said, we would also like the Government to draw up a legislative proposal as soon as possible, which will provide the basis for an independent investigation into the construction and revision of business in the construction of Block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectrica. True, our support for these activities seems to disturb someone. As it is true that we are not and will not care about the fate of jobs in Premogovnik Velenje and the Termoelectric power plant Šostanj. Finally, it is also true that we do not accept flat-rate allegations and accusations that establish the perpetrator of irregularities right over the thumb and without feeling any responsibility in the event that the charges are found to be unfounded and unfounded. In the second half of the 1980s, Velenje’s coal mine had over 5,000 employees. In recent years, the number of employees has decreased. Today there are about 2 000 500 employees in the PV group. According to the TEST plans, in view of the closure of Block 3 and 4 existing operational staff are redeployed to Block 6. The support functions shall also be used by existing staff already carrying out this work. The NIP provides that only block 5 will remain in operation after the operation of block 6 next to it. In 2015, 429 employees were foreseen, in 2017 – 395 and gradually, on a natural path, with pensions decreased. Without Block 6, 405 would be employed in 2016 in 2017 – 351 and so on until 2027, when no more employees would be employed. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia replied to my question on my mission, which is the biggest identified risk for the cashing of the State guarantee, that risk recognition was processed in NIP 6, which is in preparation. The highest risks are the risk of default with banks of contractually agreed financial ratios and other commitments and the risk of non-compliance with banks of contractually agreed coefficients at the level of HSE. These risks are most likely to be met: the risk that the coal price foreseen in the investment programme will not be reached, the risk that the electricity price as foreseen in the investment programme will not be reached, the risk of an increase in block failures during the regular operation phase and, consequently, a reduction in the number of operating hours and the risk that the investment will not be completed in the previous contractually agreed schedules. I would like to mention once again that here, in the National Assembly, it was said that, at the request of HSE, they had to reduce the investment value to a billion EUR 189 million and that they were aware that the value was undervalued at the time. At this point, someone should answer. And what are we following today, what's going on in the Valley of Shale? Unsatisfactory workers in Velenje Coal who are least guilty of the situation; wage cuts; threats of forgiveness; disposal of property. And what's the situation at the Chestnut Power Plant? The operation of Block 4 is expected to be extended, but it is already more burdensome for the environment today. The 5 block, which was foreseen for the reserve until 2027, was expected to cease operation soon. But we don't really know about Block 6. It's working or not working. However, representatives of the German company RWE, which had already entered Croatian energy before a good year ago, are already walking through the thermal power plant Šostjanj. It is indeed necessary for a parliamentary investigation to determine, in addition to everything mentioned in the request for a parliamentary inquiry, whether all individuals represented and also those representing the competent authorities, the government, the management of companies, the supervisory council, the assembly, carried out or abandoned the mandatory conduct that should be carried out as good hosts or supervisors in favour of the State. Because of the fact that we have made no difficulty in contributing all our signatures to all of us, Members and Members of Parliament, in support of the establishment of the Parliamentary Commission, and we hope that the parliamentary commission will be effective and will achieve its objectives, and we will certainly participate actively in the work of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Ms Violeta Tomić will present the position of the United Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u72	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! An extremely large number of signatures for the introduction of a parliamentary inquiry to determine the political responsibility of public function holders in the investment in Block 6 of the Šostanj Termoelectrica power plant are assessed as a high level of consensus in the National Assembly to clear the suspicion of the responsibility of representatives of the political class, which in this story has demonstrated its practice in the management of the country and the management of public money. It is insufferable that we constantly listen to how the country is a bad master and therefore need to sell its assets at all costs, preferably for foreigners, while at the same time looking at the reality of the criminal tragedy that is happening to us and which is not the end. Over the years, there have been proposals to sell block 6 or to sell the entire thermal power plant of Šostanje because it seems to be a very promising investment. Turns out there's no interest in foreign investors. Today it's obvious why it is. We will have to manage the imported investment ourselves, about which we learn new facts every day, increasing the damage and confirming the assessments of the catastrophic nature and implementation of this project. The request for an investigation is based on system logic. Its foundation is the transformation or transformation of the state in line with the interests of capital in the time of neoliberalism and the rise of a non-democratic technocrat political class, which seeks only its own pocket and to preserve its political power in the midst of capital. The purpose of this investigation is to add concrete names to this system logic. All these processes have actors who have contributed to the mosaic of deceptions, manipulations, acts of law and criminal and corrupt acts that have led to the implementation of the TES 6 project. And what are those key elements of the political responsibility of the officials in investing in Block 6 and, in our view, are also key to all other investments from public funds in which political officials are directly or indirectly involved? Officials must provide an indisputable legal basis for investments, both for those from public funds and for those carried out by public undertakings or public-owned companies. It is the duty of the officials to scrutinise thoroughly the information provided by the investment preparers. For actions, officials shall have legal and financial resources at their disposal. Officials in the executive branch must respond when the legislative branches of the authorities propose to confirm a decision based on poorly verified data; not only in the case of block 6. Officials should be able to listen to the expert opinions and opinions of civil society and should carefully weigh the messages and should not reject them on average as political prestige issues, otherwise there are investment disasters – not just in energy, but also in the construction of infrastructure, investment in health and could still be listed. In our opinion, there is political and perhaps even some responsibility of officials when there are planned manipulations and violations of the legal order, but where there is no prosecutor, there is no judge. We'll try to end this. Again, it is not only an investment in the 6th block where it is to perceive such events, where we can see the systemic logic of neoliberalism mentioned. Officials shall have the opportunity to enforce the liability of managers and supervisors of public undertakings and undertakings owned by the State. I wonder how many times these ministers have proposed this option to the Government and empowered the State Defence to act. The responsibility for allowing for a continuous increase in investment value, which is due to many, including corruption factors, is also without a doubt for officials, but has so far been managed to avoid. The implementation of environmental regulations is one of the responsibilities of officials, including political ones. Allowing shortcuts to one economic operator has a domino effect. All I have to do is mention the events concerning Lafarg and the rehabilitation of the Celje Valley due to the rest of the old zinc factory. The focus of the investigation will also be on identifying the possible fraud of the Government and the National Assembly with incorrect data, with a view to confirming the State guarantee law for a 440 million-dollar loan. Today, we know that none of the key conditions for the adoption of the State guarantee law anymore holds. There are also increasing indications that some officials knew in advance that the duration of the key conditions is only until the adoption of the guarantee law. The transfer of officials calls for the exercise of political responsibility and, consequently, sanctions. Let us stress that the previous and current governments have committed themselves to providing legal conditions for a full assessment of the investment in Block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectric Power Plant. So far, we don't know anything tangible except a few predictions. For example, a simple addition to one single article of the Law on the Court of Auditors, with a few words, which we list with one hand, would eliminate the scrupulousness of the Court of Auditors in investigating subsidiaries of state-owned companies. Such a government proposal to supplement the Law on the Court of Auditors could be adopted by means of an urgent procedure, and taking into account the high level of consensus on this investigation, including with similar support from the masses. Take these words as an invitation to government officials to carry out one of the mandatory actions, which is a constant concern for improving legislation towards effective and transparent treatment of state assets and public funds. Let me finish. After almost a year and a half, the government has not received the Novelled Investment Programme No. 6. This means that we do not have a starting point so that we can clearly identify what is happening to this investment in the last year. Also, the fact that officials cannot reach the implementation of their decisions in state-owned management companies calls on them to determine their responsibilities. We will make sure that the Investigative Commission plays its role effectively in Block 6 of the TEC and that, on the basis of the findings of this investigation, the criteria will be laid down to determine the political responsibility of officials to manage public investment and to deal with public and public property in general. Example TES 6 is a symptom of systemic changes at policy level and at country level. After the neoliberal establishment, it became a handy tool in the hands of capital, and the political class began to act as a manager, seeking its monetary and political benefits at the expense of the working people in connection with capital with all legal and illegal means. Private interest has prevailed over public interest. TEM 6 is a concrete example that we need to give him specific names and surnames. The Commission of Inquiry must establish the political responsibility of all those responsible for the disaster named TES 6 at all. Names and surnames of all representatives of the political class, regardless of political colour and client. We are counting on the fact that the last elections to the National Assembly have brought new names with promises of different governance of the country and that the majority will to dominate the public interest and reveal the private interests that have set up this huge monument of corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u73	Thank you. The position of the New Slovenia Group of Members - Christian Democrats will be presented by Mr Jernej Vrtovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u74	Dear Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We are talking about one of the biggest energy investments in our country. At the same time, we are talking about the country's dizzying financial obligations, which, in addition to the already large public financial deficit, threatens barely the sustainable stability of the financial system. All the same dilemmas remain since the inclusion of TES 6 in the Resolution on National Development Projects for the period 2007-2023 and the Investment Programme of April 2006 and the same questions are raised. So, for a legitimate investment. Why is its value constantly increasing, and how does this increase affect the operation of HSE itself? How high is the risk of cashing out the State guarantee for long-term loans of EUR 440 million? And most importantly: Why did the Government or Republic of Slovenia, despite numerous warnings and concerns, allow for alleged illegal procedures? These questions are unanswered, as we have already been trained, and the question of accountability, both criminal and political, remains. Because according to various criminal investigations, the criminal proceedings under way are one fact that TES 6 is a monument to corruption and clientism in the Republic of Slovenia. Let's take a closer look. It is incomprehensible and unacceptable that the estimated value of the investment since 2006 has increased to around EUR 690 million to EUR 440 million. Despite numerous concerns about the government's profession and policy, Borut Pahorj did not stop the TES 6 construction project in March 2009, but the value has increased to 340 in the meantime. In 2011, this value already exceeded €400 million. While it is true that the economic situation in Slovenia has changed significantly in all these years, the economic crisis has led to a decline in electricity consumption and the price of electricity belts has decreased significantly since 2006. Then the government of Alenka Bratušek took part in a written meeting on 15. Seven. 2013 took note of the information on the state of the project and adopted a number of conclusions which were quite clear It concluded that the project does not provide implementation in time and price frameworks as it was granted when deciding on the investment itself. And by the way, it is unreasonable for the government to talk or decide on such matters, which may also mean a breakdown of the economy. The decisions adopted by the Government, with which the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space and the Ministry of Finance, Termoelectricařna Šostanj, Holding of Slovenian Power Plants, have made specific commitments, were also supported by the National Assembly. On 16 July 2013, the Commission proposed to the Government that it report on the implementation of these decisions by the end of November. And what has happened since then? Did we happen to hear reports of conclusions? Nothing happened at all. The government has not reached a single conclusion. Let's take a look at it. At today's market prices of electricity, we can rightly expect TES 6 to create a huge loss this year. If the price of coal is more than €2.95 gigajoule, the loss will be more than 50 million. And what will we do, Members? What will the government do? Simply filing criminal charges against a few natural persons who are supposed to abuse their position does not mean a solution to the situation and does not mean preventing further financial losses, which we already know will happen today. At this point, Christian Democrats are most concerned about the ease and serenity of the fact that TES 6 is not able to make up its own obligations to suppliers today because it has taken over HSE since last year. The State has imposed a heavy burden on the European Investment Bank by the Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for long-term loans of EUR 440 million leased by the Termoelectric power plant Šostanj, d.o.o., which places an increasing burden on the European Investment Bank. The burden that only Members of New Slovenia objected to as an entire parliamentary group, because we were aware that TEŠ 6 would no longer be able to meet its loan obligations in all these facts and the guarantee would be cashed. And one more thing! On the basis of the accepted guarantee, the State has concluded a contract with TES 6 on the regulation of relations which lays down, inter alia, the deadlines for the completion of the project, the conclusion of a contract on the long-term supply of coal and the framework for the profitability of the energy project. And not to forget the most important element of this Treaty: the total value of the project must be lower than the total value of the project mentioned in the fourth amendment of the investment programme, i.e. EUR 302 million. This condition, it seems, will certainly not be fulfilled in the light of all the known facts. And where are we today? We still do not have a planned investment programme 6, despite the fact that TES is in its response to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space on 13. In 2014, he claimed that the final version would be produced by the end of October 2014. If I'm not mistaken, it's January 30th 2015 and the NIP 6 is not hearing. Instead, we have Members ahead of us only the loss of TES itself, which threatens to cash in the guarantee. Data are also coming on a day that indicates a completely unprofessional and flawed planning of the investment. This Monday we were also able to read in the media that TEŠ 6 cannot operate on its own at all because it needs 100 tons of fresh steam per hour. Since TEM 6 cannot provide this alone, consideration will have to be given to a new steam boiler, which represents an additional EUR 5 to 7 million, or the possibility of extending the operation of TES 5. Do we even imagine what that actually means? After so many years, are we only now finding out the facts that we should have foreseen when planning the construction of TES 6 or is Block 6 not actually planned as a replacement block? It is also clear for a long time that the 5th block, if it continues to operate, would need extensive investment in cleaning systems, as it does not meet environmental requirements. All of these facts show, therefore, that TES 6 represents a Slovenian financial disaster, which has virtually nothing to do with responsible management and good owners. Finally, let me conclude on the search for the culprits themselves. Indeed, the law enforcement authorities have filed several criminal charges for suspected abuse of position and rights and for the destruction or falsification of business documents, and we ask ourselves — is that all? The fact that the HSE Director-General, Mr Blaž Kosorok, doubts about the credibility of the NIP 4 and 5 which were undervalued by the costs of the investment and the fact that all TES administrations have deceived the competent ministers with regard to the true value of the 6th block, makes us rightly afraid that nothing will happen. For this reason, in the New Slovenia Group, we have also signed a request for a parliamentary inquiry to determine the political responsibility of public officials in this investment, because it is indeed irresponsible for our citizens and our citizens, that, with such obvious, irresponsible and non-economic behaviour of the State, some continue to shift and seek the culprits for the situation elsewhere, only at their own doors can they fail or refuse to knock. So, we can also talk about the political responsibility of public function holders in this story, regardless of the colors, TES 6 has given hands in the project. Personally, I think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr Jani Möderndorfer will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Alliance of Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u76	Hello! At least, what we can find out today is that this commission has been set up at least a year or two too late. Because I am sure that we could probably already find out certain facts, which in fact would also affect the fact that the Guarantee Act might not be adopted and any other decisions to be taken hereafter. Therefore, regardless of the fact that we are actually setting up an investigative commission that will open a series of questions today without a vote, it is important to ask the following questions in particular. What are the objectives of this Commission, what will be the final report, and what is the political will for this Commission to complete its work? If I go from behind to the first question, of course, it is more than a clear conclusion that for now it seems that political will is. For of the 90 Members, and when I count down the two members of the ethnic minorities, who have never participated in the inquiry commission in history, nor in signatures, nor in any case, the 76 members of the membership have in fact supported the establishment of this commission. This is, of course, a message called political will. Whether this political will will continue is, of course, another issue. For, unfortunately, I see for myself that some have already taken this commission as prestige, who has warned of something, who has worked where, who has warned of something; in short, this is not a good prospect for the final work of this commission. Of course, it is important to ask the following questions. When the Commission invites a number of witnesses to highlight past and backward events, I can only find one thing: this report must eventually be public! For if you look into the past of the commission of inquiry, those commissions that did not have a public report have finished their work, there was no effect. I'll give you an example. We had a commission — a public rule is that if you set up a commission, you didn't save anything. However, this is not the case with the commission of inquiry. Many commissions – and the mistaken view that this is not the case – have finished their work. Let me mention the case of the Free Commission. The Commission completed its work, made a final report and even found out everything: who was giving money, transactions and who received it. But the report is still confidential today, and it's not public because of too much personal data. But there are public conclusions that say virtually nothing. It is therefore very important what the report of this Commission is at the end of its work and will be decided by the Commission. Therefore, one hint, advice — make the right decision if you really want to be honest enough for the public and not just brag about who warned about something. Likewise, if you look at it, extremists, the extremist commission, have finished their work. She issued a partial report and today we have problems because of these extremists in one way or another – some even say that there are left and right, for me personally not, I must say that there are only extremists – we have problems that now those who should be punished or should be followed and, in fact, controlled and even acted against by them are now "rewarded" those who reported it. Then there's tycoon takeovers. The Commission, which has also done its work with a partial report, today has a kind of epilogue, because, in fact, if not the other, it has opened up a political arena, that we should not really be afraid and be convinced that if someone has a political outrage that nothing will happen to him. Some today sit or are on their way to where they belong. I therefore particularly welcome the fact that when the Commission does this work, that the report is public, because we will only be able to make very clear what is, of course, the objective of this Commission. The aim of this Commission is, for the first time, to establish political responsibility, because for everything else, another responsibility is known who identifies who in this country; and second, which is very important to me personally, is that we learn from what we can learn, what we must no longer allow where political decisions are made. And if not elsewhere, where are political decisions made? In the National Assembly, in this room. Indeed, the fact that we were in the previous term – I can say with certainty: because I did not participate in this exercise – supported the guarantee for 440 million while, at the same time, the next day, we signed an annex to the contract, which increased this value by over 100 million, is more than clear that someone also had the National Assembly as a fool. Therefore, to say always and only to jobs for the price of going to waste and ruin, of course, simply makes no sense. Finally, let me say that what we already know today without this commission is clear. If the final value of the project reveals in essence NIP 6, which will also determine the price of coal according to its origin, it is of course very important that we are aware that, in reality, we can already say that it is completely wrong. Happy and successful work for the commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr Bojan Dobovšek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u78	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, all those who accompany this meeting. In view of the materials we have received and in view of the debate so far, we can see that this is a very complex issue that reflects the whole topic and issue of the modern society, where the exploitation of multinationals takes place at the expense of the country where financial crime is taking place and where we have economic exploitation at all levels. But this is not only a problem for Slovenia, but we can also turn to neighbouring countries. For example, if we look at Italy, the recent history of mafia development has shown us that the mafia has invested its money in criminal activities in infrastructure, energy and so on. Thus, even before others, they found out where money is worth investing and where money is worth making from the European Union. They found that these were infrastructure projects such as transport and energy. Moreover, an informal network of people, known as Propaganda duee, was formed in Italy, bringing together politicians, bankers, economists and other stakeholders who controlled the whole of Italy and controlled both the energy sector and other subsectors. In view of this, Italy has already initiated a number of procedures, one of these Di Pietros as prosecutor in Mani Pulita, and the other in Parliament has adopted a parliamentary investigation, the aim of which was to prohibit, detect and follow a number of convictions. If we look parallel to what is happening in Slovenia, we are now on a similar path and it is up to us to figure out what was happening and where we will go next. If we just look at the clarification, we see that there is criminal liability, police procedures, investigations, house investigations and so on. It's at the level of criminal liability. At the level of financial liability, we see that proceedings are under way before the Court of Auditors. We have heard that we need certain amendments to the legislation. That financial institutions have awakened to seek financial flows, that we will also intervene in financial flows abroad, which remains to be done. But the key is that we have not done anything on political responsibility so far. And the establishment of such a commission is a step in the right direction. My colleague Jani mentioned that such committees are effective. I hope that this new commission will also be effective and will contribute to something new in our society. If we turn to what this kind of commission is supposed to bring. I'm supposed to bring more good things. First of all, expose political responsibility and those who have allowed these things to happen. Secondly, give support and encouragement to investigative institutions, both in criminal and financial matters. To encourage people to start talking about it, to pee on the whistle, to be willing to tell them what went wrong, to provide evidence, and to direct such investigations by providing them with adequate protection, of course. These are those movements, and more could be done in the field of investigative journalism, because it is precisely investigative journalists who identify and expose political responsibility and give indications to investigative authorities. If I conclude that I will not be too long, I could say that political responsibility is first and that it is built within the political parties themselves. It is said that those officials who have been involved in such or such frauds should answer first within the parties, saying that the parties themselves should clear up whether such officials are still trustworthy, whether they are local or state-level. On the second level, people should also be given the opportunity. People need to find out what politicians are like, how they behave, whether they will be punished or rewarded with a new mandate. Thus, we can also expect people to give their share of this responsibility. As for the general impression, however, the debate itself encourages us to identify such practices more easily, they are increasingly difficult to do, and this will be the preventive role. What are we waiting for in this area? So far we've only talked about one piece, it's called investing in TES 6. What else are we waiting for? We are still waiting on how we will supply coal and other things for the entire TES 6 project. So we haven't said anything about it yet, and the clues themselves show that there are such distortions at this next step. And then at least a third step – the ecological aspect of the whole problem. The damage in the Shaleska Valley has already been done, as well as elsewhere. Ecological and different. The damage will also have to be brought back to these people. The profession is when the damage has already been done and has to be recovered. Worse yet, the project itself is set to pollute the environment. If we look at the market, we see that there is a market for emission vouchers that we will have to buy for air pollution and CO2 emissions. So far, however, we know that this market controls organised crime and that there are many distortions in this market, and we are not even thinking about it. So much for looking into the future and leading the work of such a commission. The Group of Ambassadors, of course, fully supported the work of this Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u79	Thank you. Mr Daniel Krivec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u80	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues! The National Assembly will today order a parliamentary inquiry to determine the political responsibility of public functions in the investment in Block 6 of the Šostanj Termoelectrica. A sufficient number of Members have been gathered for such a step, but it should be stressed that even those Members who have not signed the initiative do not oppose this investigation. The fact is that all the parties took part in the pre-election period for a thorough investigation into the implementation of the TES 6 project. It is likely that many expected the commission of a parliamentary inquiry even earlier, since all the decisions and requests of the Committees of the National Assembly on this issue, as well as the requests and conclusions of the National Assembly, which have been forwarded to the competent ministers and the Government, have not been answered. Even more; the conclusions of the Government itself are not implemented. Any information on how Slovenia's largest stranded investment in the history of Slovenia, the investment in Block 6 of the Šostjanj Thermoelectrica is important and welcome, so we support the establishment of the Commission. However, the process of bringing this initiative has shown that the Slovenian Democratic Party is ignoring the preparation of a parliamentary inquiry into TES 6, which shows how this process will run on a political basis and then later on investigative and judicial proceedings. The SDS delegation group was practically excluded from the signature to determine the parliamentary inquiry on TEM 6. When a request was made by the United Left to the Co-signatory for an investigative committee regarding the investment of TEŠ 6 without our signatures, we were surprised by this behaviour, especially because we felt that the establishment of this investigative commission made sense from the very beginning. When we expected the United Left Group to receive this material, we waited a long time for the proposed text. When we got him, we made comments. We met twice with Mr Hanzko, who was the coordinator of the preparation of this request, and we have both submitted written proposals to him to complement and improve the investigative commission. Mr Hanžek took note of everything, he also agreed with the comments, but when we received the first and second writings, we found that none of the important things we proposed were included in the request. We have pointed out in the proposals that the request for an investigative committee has a number of holes, probably not by accident, but deliberately. Finally, comments to improve the material of the Commission of Inquiry were also sent to the United Left experts, who were informed that they would not change or supplement individual content. The material has a very poorly processed period before 2004, and we need to know that the decision-making processes for the construction of Block 6 of Thermal Power Plant Šostjanj have already taken place at local and national level before 2003, which was the work of the then Rope government, and Janez Janša's first government has inherited it. It is also important to reiterate that the key changes and circumstances in the energy market have changed significantly during the period or in 2009. Since then, SDS Members have launched several activities that have allowed for the re-examination of the meaning of the continuation of the investment in TEM 6. They could have stopped the investment at high cost. All these comments and warnings were made by the government of Borut Pahor and the economic sector was in the hands of the ministers of the Golobič in Zares at the time. The biggest impressions occurred when the department was led by the leader of the party Zares. In our additions to the parliamentary investigation orders, we have proposed that the parliamentary inquiry should also deal with: for the first time, the abandonment of the duty to conduct during the time of the substantial changes in the fall in electricity prices; for the second time: ignoring the numerous calls of independent experts; for the third time: abandonment of the powers of HSE and TES management; for the fourth time: alleged political corruption in the lodging of the guarantee law; for the fifth time: failure to respect the guarantee law and for the sixth time: fraud in respect of stocks and coal prices. We have also proposed some things, but none of our initiatives have been entered into the parliamentary investigation order, and then the request has been filed without anyone calling us or at least informing us. On the basis of these preliminary steps, it is apparent that the purpose of this parliamentary investigation is to highlight those periods in which the government of Janez Janša worked and to minimise the periods and emphasis on the government of Borut Pahor or the government of Alenka Bratušek. In this case, the request for a commission of inquiry is a similar approach to that of Patria. Even then, the government of Anton Ropa made a favorable arrangement, sold System Technology to a member of LDS Pavčku, then revealed a loose letter of intent and reckoning that the military business would take place in the LDS sphere. Then came Janša's government's decision to call for international tender when the System Technology was not selected. This is why a race against the purchase of 8-wheelers was launched, and an investigative commission led by the Magi was established. And then there was the Patria affair from Finland, which we've been dealing with for six years, where those who didn't participate in the business were convicted, but they weren't in criminal proceedings who started the business by selling the company, nor were those who were politically and professionally responsible for the execution of Ambassador Patria. I hope I am wrong, but unfortunately this matter with the investigation committee TES 6 is going in a very similar way. Those who cooked the deal, behind the preparation of the request for an investigative committee, politely asked us to comment, received them, and then put the matter into action without the key things. This is also the case in this case, and in this business all those who are first directly, but now we see that even indirectly, they supported this process against Janez Janša and the Slovenian Democratic Party. I would also like to mention the case that took place in the judicial area. The Council of Justice was proposed by Dr Anita Dolinšek, a senior judge at the High Court of Justice in Celje, who was responsible for the legal part of the TES project. In this chain, it was obvious that the ground was being prepared to cover the matter if the case came to the competent court in Celje. In the SDS Group, we have made a request to examine all the circumstances of this application for this seat. The Council of Justice forwarded the proposal to the Committee on the Mandate and Elections, where the proposal was unanimously rejected. This shows that there may be some hope and that there is still a common sense. However, we will be constructively involved in the investigative committee. Unfortunately for me, the process of submitting and ignoring members of the Slovenian Democratic Party in this part shows how the process will run on the political floor in the direction of disqualification, not in the desire to get really relevant answers and those responsible for the poorly managed project TES 6. I'm sorry. I hope I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u81	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Mr Hanzk.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u82	In view of the fact that I will end up talking about the whole thing, I would now simply like to reject the instigation of the SDS representative. I'm sorry, we talked to SDS about this almost until the press conference. And what the SDS tells me is exactly what the SDS wanted to bring into the investigative commission. Only very quickly: it is reported that a poorly processed period prior to 2003. True, but the pre-2004 period will be handled by an investigative commission. Together we have only collected materials that are approximate, and that is 10 centimeters, a few thousand pages, but we have written this, and I admit it, on your proposal that the investigation should start as early as 2003 and all the years that are found to have affected the investigative commission or something like that are written. That's true. We didn't ignore it. All the suggestions you made were more or less in there, except that you wanted to do just that in the proposals – the names are already in the proposal. For example, we should point out one of the NGOs that advocated the construction of TEŠ 6. I want it, too, because I'm against what she's been doing, and everything else. But I was in charge: we won't give a name. We're not gonna give those to who I'm against either, but we could, after all. Let the investigative committee do that. That's all we've come up with, and your suggestions were exactly what you're now seeing: to highlight those years when your client wasn't in power, and to draw the rest. Which, please, will be able to finish, and then the president will give you his word, and I would like to finish now. [[…]] However, I have ended up in one way or another because it is unnecessary to keep repeating the manipulations that the extreme right has afforded to its opponents.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am." [[…]] Procedural? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u84	Thank you so much for your words, Madam Vice President! Dear Mr Hanžek, I already warned your colleague Luke Mesca yesterday not to call us extreme right because this is a lie. I would ask you to apologize for not allowing myself to be called by someone by that name. And I ask that the President ensure that we no longer listen to such statements, because I do not allow it. And even the Slovenian Democratic Party does not allow it! If anyone is radical, let him clean up at his own doorstep, but let him not throw it on the other side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mrs. Irgle. Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat, please. Get Mr. Joseph Horvat ready. Here you go, Mrs. Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Mr President, I expected you to react. That you will warn your fellow Member and that you will invite him to apologize. We listened to this from the United Left all the time yesterday. Now I'm asking you to ask Mr. Hanzko to apologize. You probably don't like it either if you say you're coming from an extreme radical left. Next time, I'm gonna start my own show. Please reach out in the middle when we're talking about these matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Of course, I must say that the term extreme left or extreme right is not only used today for the first time. I, of course, ask Mr Hanžk not to use this for the second time, and for the future take this into account. Thank you very much. So, Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat, please. Get Mr. Joseph Horvat ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Respected and respected! Members and Members of the Desus Group are co-signors of this requirement to determine the parliamentary investigation of the construction of the 6th block of the Šostanj Termoelectrica, in order to establish the political responsibility of the public function holders in this investment. Construction of TES 6 is the largest investment in energy in the Republic of Slovenia and has taken place for a number of years, so it must be said that the imprudentness of this project is the responsibility of all governments that have allowed this lack of transparency to take place and that the value of this project has increased across borders. No government has so far initiated the necessary procedures to investigate the events and actions that have led to the increase of investment from €690 million to €1.3 billion, and no government has decided to stop the construction of the block of the Šostanj Termoelectrica. Criminals are also investigating developments in TES 6. I expect them to identify the illegalities that have fostered such a drastic increase in the value of this investment and that those responsible for it and who have committed crimes will also be held accountable for these acts and will, of course, receive a just punishment. As regards the parliamentary investigation, however, the following. I expect that the parliamentary investigation will determine the responsibility of the management of the Termoelectrica Šostjanj, determine the responsibility of the supervisory boards and determine the political responsibility of the holders of public functions, which allowed the implementation of such a non-transparent investment. Therefore, with respect and respect, I support the establishment of a special commission of inquiry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Get Mr. Igor Zorčič ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! The New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats contributed its signatures to the request for a parliamentary inquiry into TES 6. Colleagues and colleagues, we have at least two megas, maybe even a gig problem. The first is the suspicion of corruption in the management of the TES 6 and the second project, also mega, maybe giga, and the problem is the profitability of the operation of the TES6 block. Colleague Bojan Dobovšek gave a very plastic description of how those who are close to them work in infrastructure projects — such as TES 6 — to gain the personal benefits and benefits of their mates. He described very plasticly, and I just wish that colleague Dobovšek would also be a member of this commission of inquiry, would be an extremely added value. When we analyze TEŠ 6 today, we can identify a mistake in the design and implementation of this energy facility and, if the suspects of the investigators are also confirmed by criminal law, then we will also find crime. However, without overemphasis, we can see that the basic idea was contrary to the international treaties signed by the Republic of Slovenia. Maybe my debate will go back a little bit, maybe someone won't be happy with it, but I'll go all the way there by the year 2000, and you'll see that for a reason. The price of the facility, due to incompetence and probable crime resulting from the closure in local frameworks, almost doubled from the internationally expected, thus justified. It has also become clear that the price of the energy of the giant lignite will be significantly higher than expected. In doing so, the issue of the quantities of coal suitable for exploitation in the wholesale mine remains open. The cost of operation does not include emission vouchers which will continue to encourage the operation of an already non-profitable facility. Because of what I just said, I think it is important that the Slovenian public get a clear picture of who and how the key decisions on the construction of TES 6 were taken, and that is also my purpose. Especially because all of us in connection with this building, whose construction was one of the biggest mistakes in the Republic of Slovenia, are facing difficult, very difficult and unpleasant decisions – us and our children. On the one hand, the operation of TES 6 will mean significant financial losses and excessive pollution, and on the other hand the freezing of this project would mean a loss of €1 billion and a significant hole in our energy balance, which at least cannot be filled quickly. Neither one alternative nor the other is good. Ladies and gentlemen, we have repeatedly told Members of New Slovenia that TEŠ 6 is not a path to carbon-free society; this is actually what the former Commissioner from the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Janez Potočnik said. And also because TES 6 is not a road to a carbon-free society, Nova Slovenija, as the only parliamentary group, has not supported or voted against the guarantee law for EUR 440 million to complete the construction of TES 6. We had a lot of reasons for that. Let me remind you that in 2000 Slovenia actually had an energy strategy. The year 2000! Mr Andrej Umek, Minister of the Environment and Space in the Government of Dr Andrej Bajuk, met and dealt with the issue of Slovenian thermal power plants in the sense of responsible person at the time. As far as reviewing the acquisition documentation is concerned, Mr Umek says that he has found that Slovenia cannot comply with the provisions of the Kyoto Agreement without any profound interference with its energy. He was convinced that such decisions exceeded his competence, and he immediately informed the prime minister of Dr. Bayuk. At the meeting that followed the same day, three positions were drawn up: the government, led by Dr Andrej Bajuk, will consistently respect all international agreements and the resulting obligations; Slovenia, as a future member of the European Union, will act until the Kyoto Agreement as a member and on the basis of these views the Ministry of Environment and Space will draw up an energy strategy. Interestingly, those decisions were made very quickly! With these basic views, the Bajuk government also briefed the international public and the Pokjota conferences in Budapest in August and The Hague in November 2000. These Slovenian positions were particularly positive among the members of the European Union at the time and, of course, they came under criticism among some of the candidates at the time who mainly derive their electricity from coal. These requested a special discount for candidates, with which Slovenia did not agree. Work on the draft energy strategy of Slovenia was launched at the Ministry of Environment and Space with all the intensity, as they wanted to complete the strategy by autumn 2000 – because we know that the elections in the National Assembly were announced at the end of 2000. In this part, it has been clear that if Slovenia wants to follow the Kyoto Agreement, it must significantly reduce the production of electricity from coal, which is why this decision was correct. The fact that Slovenian coals are becoming deeper as we go with the excavation, more and more dirty, not only chemically but also radioactively, also contributed significantly to this decision. So it's the pollution of these coals with chemical ingredients, and as we go deeper and deeper, they're also more and more radioactive. So today, when we talk about the coal supply in the Velenjsko mine, we should state the estimated permissible pollution with the quantity data. The need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions was even greater – watch out now! – as expectations have been, it has proved justified that transport will increase significantly after Slovenia's entry into the European Union and that there is no way to expect reductions in discharges. We can all sign this. The draft energy strategy of Slovenia, therefore we are still in 2000, contained the following basic concepts, very instructive: the thermal power plants close after the end of their lifetime, while closing the thermal power plants close the coal mines, allowing for the only cogeneration of electricity heating based on cleaner imported coals, the energy deficit is covered by hydropower plants and the construction of the second block of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. In the case of hydropower plants, the lower- and mid-Savish chain is given priority, the decision on the construction of power plants on Mura is hereby postponed. Special attention was paid to pumping hydroelectric power plants to meet top energy needs. This draft was extensively discussed by the Bajuk government, i.e. it has already discussed, and this draft energy strategy of Slovenia has not actually been contested, so this document was of quality. However, the view prevailed that such far-reaching concepts could not be changed during the electoral campaign, as we will be able to do so after the elections. And then? Political competition has decided not to respect international treaties. Political competition has decided not to respect international treaties! During the election campaign and after winning the LDS it became clear that Slovenia does not specifically intend to abide by the Kyoto Agreement. During his election campaign in the fall of 2000, LDS President Drnovšek, unfortunately already deceased, expressed his opposition to the draft draft energy strategy of the Republic of Slovenia and the voters in Izlak, he made it clear that if elected, TET 2 would also work after the expected closing date and would continue with the mining of coal in Zasavje. After his election victory and his LDS Dr. Drnovšek formed a new Slovenian government, it is undeniable that Dr. Drnovšek kept his promise. Mr Kopač, the newly appointed Minister for Environment and Space, renewed TET 2 and introduced the sounding of smoke gases. This should extend both the operation of TET 2 and the extraction of coal in Zasavje. The decision to renovate was extremely poor and without a professional basis, intended only for pre-election campaigns and for obtaining political votes. Despite significant financial resources invested, TET 2 ceased to operate well a year before the deadline foreseen in the energy strategy of the Bajuk government. Improper decisions in Zasav were also an incentive for improper decisions in the Valley of Shale. Thus, the event in Zasavje also encouraged appetite in the Valley of Shaleska n led to an informal connection, let’s say a silly lobby — this concept is very familiar to us. He was obviously disturbed by the fact that because of Drnovšek–Kopač's reconstruction of TET 2 they should stop the thermal power plant before the mammals and stop digging coal. The appetites of this relationship were even greater and grew from year to year. First planned replacement construction of 400 megawatt block has grown into the construction of a new thermal power plant TES 6. Planning and later construction took place first on a local level, i.e. in a closed circle, and were transferred to the state only after the jesting lobby felt that construction could no longer be stopped. Planning and construction in a closed local mile, which had the sole goal of "we are building and will be paid by someone else" and "the state can conclude agreements and we do not have to stick to them", resulted in non-professional planning and non-professional management of the project and – if we believe law enforcement authorities – corruption of unimaginable dimensions. During this time, the size of the facility increased from 400 to 600 megawatts and the price for the six-megawatt block from the eligible 850 to the thousand 450 million euros. As this unjustifiable increase in construction costs has occurred, the police are now investigating, as we know, but it is undeniable that such an expensive facility will never be able to operate economically. So this project is already doomed to inefficiencies in business. Colleagues and colleagues, the Slovenian public must receive objective and clear information and we want it to be obtained through a parliamentary inquiry. Because of these mistakes, we have very difficult decisions to make when we can only choose between a more or less bad solution. I am sure that the Slovenian public should be aware of this, as it will bear the costs of past mistakes. The moral obligation of HSE and law enforcement authorities is that events around TET 2 and TES 6 thoroughly investigate and inform the Slovenian public objectively and comprehensively. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor to prepare Mr Ivan Hršak. Here you go, Mr. Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u92	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Constitution provides for an investigative commission, as we are setting up today, says the National Assembly can order an investigation into matters of public interest. To that end, it shall appoint a committee which shall have the same powers as the judicial authorities in matters of inquiry and verification. Therefore, the Constitution provides for an investigation in matters of public interest and the case of TES is certainly such. Today we have heard a lot about TES, but TES is not only TES, TES is garlic on cake. If we think back a little bit, in the history of Slovenia we had a whole bunch of infrastructure projects that grew enormously from the start of the investment. Remember the highway cross. At first it stood, it was expected to be a billion marks, at the end it was €6 billion. Let's remember a lot of tunnels. We are, given that we are a small nation, the true masters of how such contracts happen to us when some unforeseen circumstances arise and the price needs to be doubled three times. So TER 6 and the actors of this affair have certainly learned this school before, already on the highways. The purpose of this investigative commission, which we are going to support today, is to root out this school, or to set up a new school, how policy should not be involved in this matter, and how to deal with it as a whole. The consequences of TES, as well as the previous issues I mentioned, of motorways, will have harmful consequences for a long time to come. Not only financial, we may at one time be at risk of cashing out the guarantee at TES6 that we are not talking about a bank hole where a whole bunch of claims from failed construction companies that have built these road networks and other infrastructures have been found, and these claims may not be related to these projects, but such a policy and economy in large infrastructure projects will certainly have financial implications in the future. In the SMC, as well as in itself, we had no doubts about supporting such a commission. In fact, the study of the TES 6 case is part of the coalition agreement and it is right to explore the matter on the political side as well. Of course, we put our best hopes on the judicial authorities. They also have the most tools in hand, and the penalties provided for by the Penal Code are those which go to those who have cooked the matter in such a way that it is not acceptable for taxpayers. Let me remind you that SMC's support for this expert committee is not the only political support for this case. Another political support is the establishment of an interdepartmental commission in the government, which will draw up legislation to investigate the case independently. In short, we are working to ensure that the case will be investigated on a political level, and I also hope that the information that will be shown in such commissions will also help us to work with the other investigative bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Hršak has the floor to prepare Dr. Franz the Crusader. Here you go, Mr. Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! And we have it, you might say. The first Commission of Inquiry in this mandate. Not to be mistaken or misunderstood: Of course, I support it more than is necessary. Of course, we are all in our Member Group, the Desus Group, and therefore we are also co-signers. Investment in TES 6 is a typical example of how such investments should not be carried out. I don’t really remember such or similar untransparent activities as this case. Therefore, I hope, in my heart, that in the end, the Commission will only be able to identify those responsible for their irregularities before the time of justice. I'm afraid I've already had one bad experience myself from my previous term. I was a member of the commission of inquiry for abuses in the Slovenian banking system and we failed; I hope this time it will be different. The story of TES 6 has not been told since yesterday, it has been going on since 2006, when the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has made a key decision. It has included the investment of TEŠ 6 in the Resolution on national development projects for the period 2007-2023. The investment amounted to a total of EUR 690 million in 2006, which increased to more than EUR 1.4 billion by this year, which is, of course, unacceptable. Of course, the good host signs the contract on a key where the final price of the investment is known and recorded and cannot be modified as it pleases during the investment itself. This was not the case in this case, so there was a constant change in the price of the investment, of course up to this unreasonable limit. However, if the contract was signed on purpose, such as it was, that some could hunt in mud, it is, of course, understandable from their point of view. Well, it is precisely the task of our investigative commission to find out and obtain irrefutable evidence of those involved in unusual transactions that will help the relevant competent authorities to complete this business path in this dedicated area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Križanič, prepare Mr. Ljubo Žnidar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u96	Honorable Chairman, High Council! Lack of electricity is one of the biggest impacts in addition to the financial crisis that can be experienced by the modern economy. For periods of industrialisation we continue to have basically two forms of such a shortage. Those of us who are older, remember how the end of the 1960s was, in the early 1970s, when we had multiple power cuts due to the rapid and uncoordinated growth of the industry, the creation of new factories that consumed electricity, the construction of power plants did not follow. In the modern world, the most famous crisis is the lack of electricity – whether it's an electric eclipse or a "black out", as he is called by those who are also reading internationally – the 2001 California crisis. As a result of market regulation, the real introduction of the market also into electricity management, and the fact that there is not enough momentum on the market, there is not enough purpose to establish sufficient capacity and then there is a lack of electricity. Therefore, a whole series of new regulatory mechanisms, the role of the State and the like have been inserted to ensure that such electric eclipses do not occur. When it comes to the electric eclipse, everything stops; even more than in the financial crisis. These are two typical imbalances in the modern economy. The holding of Slovenian power plants was created as a response by Slovenia to the introduction of the market in electricity management in a desire that we, as competitively capable producers, also enter this market. During the period until now, Holding has mainly invested in capacity, built power plants on the lower Sava, Gene energy enters here later, built the first large pump power plant in Avča and built or built TES 6, which is supposed to replace TES 1, 2 and 3 and operate significantly more effectively than previously blocks 4 and 5. Coal consumption in TES 6 is a third less than coal consumption for the same kilowatt hour of electricity produced in blocks 4 or 5. On the other hand, blocks 4 or 5 may remain in reserve if the power runs out with us or in the area and thus provide safe care. Of course, this reserve also pays and brings additional income. Coal mine Velenje, you must know, is one of the most productive mines in the world. According to the organization, it has a special Easter digging method, which is the result of our knowledge, is constantly being complemented and spread throughout the world. Where they have enough layers, they use this method and the mine also teaches or experts teach miners, montanaists around the world how this method is used. Of course, with increased coal efficiency, the result is significantly higher. When the investment in TES 6 was planned, the prices of equipment which are mainly related to the price of steel and metal were relatively low, during the period of rapid industrialisation China began to increase and this was the first wave of inflation. It is interesting, therefore, that with the tonnage of this equipment automatically increases its price, the price of knowledge here is relatively lower than the price of the material. Thus, the first promotion was the result of inflation; it was later reduced by negotiations. However, there have been two auctions, for which I have not been able to detect the cause, and I am therefore pleased and also support the investigative committee to see how the 850 million or 900 million euros were raised. Also at this price you need to know, my dears, TES 6 is much more competitive than power plants with gas and steam technology, not to say from wind power plants or solar power plants. These are competitive because they receive huge subsidies, even power plants in the lower Sava receive subsidies if they are not significantly less profitable. Huge subsidies! These subsidies are all financed from the part paid by electricity consumers above the production price and have reached enormous levels in Germany. They support mainly wind energy there, and the excess wind energy is then placed on the market for a thick, typical stock exchange, and therefore prices of fat have fallen so dreadfully. If TES 6 were to sell electricity only on the Italian market, which has relatively limited transport routes, it would have already been adopted. If it were not for these large, ten- and multi-billion-dollars – I think 19 billion is the latest, if I recall correctly – subsidies in Germany for wind energy would have been passed on again. Once these subsidies are stopped, it'll be passed on again. This is, of course, a production complex, only TES 6 represents one third of the electricity production we need in Slovenia. So this is an important supplier, an important part of the security of the supply of Slovenian electricity. How did the market respond to these large subsidies that we are implementing across all countries, how did the market react in Europe? Of course, traditional producers have become at risk due to the fall in prices to fat ones and the market has responded with a special "capacity remuneration" mechanism, as they say, the real state has begun to subsidise certain power plants that even exist. In this way, there was also a long-lived power plant as long as it was able to use tummy coal. Today, of course, in Germany, England, and elsewhere, they are already using this in fear that their key producers will fail when they stop subsidies in renewable sources and then there is no production. I hope something like this will be introduced to us. But if it happens by chance to say O.K., let's drop everything down the water — it's interesting that those who say the most how and the other way and so — let's drop everything on the water, let's close the matter. Then, of course, Slovenia will become very dependent on electricity imports and it is not difficult to imagine what will happen. We have enough portable capacity, but only the price will be set at approximately Italian level. We won't have an Austrian electricity price, we'll have an Italian, we'll have a much higher electricity price than we are now, and we'll pay it as if we were to produce a TEC 6. I think that this commission of inquiry will also be able to identify a number of circumstances, who, where and what he was named, led this project if he took him and how he took him and why he took him. I do not have much information, but I have noticed at least that the key people were called – who led this investment and who also had information that we were clear – between 2000 and 2004. They weren't appointed, they weren't getting that human resources tsunami that was irrational, but it wasn't here, for various reasons, I don't know them. If I were to finish, I would just say this: of course we also have large subsidies, more than a hundred million have reached — I think they went from 140 million to something like that last year — to renewable sources of electricity. The difference between me and the Germans with whom we like to compare them, we have them as a benchmark, as an example, but it is that in Germany at least production has increased, and in us electricity production has increased at least until 2013 when I have data, from 2010 to 2013, when these subsidies have increased enormously and production itself has not increased. You know why not? There's a wind, and there's not enough sun here, but we're paying for it. But we're not gonna set up an investigative commission to do that. Why? I am ending this debate with this question.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar has the floor to prepare Mr Marjan Dolinšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u98	Vice President, thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will focus more directly on today's issue, which is the Act on the appointment of a parliamentary inquiry to determine the political responsibility of public function holders in investing in Block 6 of the Šostanj Termoelectrica. Since many debaters are talking about technology and other procedures in the world and so on, this is not a dilemma, this is a profession, and today we are responsible for managing the largest investment in the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, I personally give firm and very strong support to the establishment of this commission of inquiry to deal with research, to investigate irregularities in the overall management of this investment. I would even say that I am missing something in the very title of this act to determine political responsibility. I think that there is a strong lack of business responsibility here, because, in my opinion, it is a much greater business responsibility of those who have led this investment, but only management, rather specifically, of the policy itself. But I would say that politics is actually a mixture of everything. I would say that at the very beginning, there are some very clear indicators, how imprudent, how purposefully untransparent this investment of management has been managed, not to say anything about the so-called toilet lobby. If I give just in case DDC, the current DRI, is the largest engineer in the country that has managed all the biggest investments in the country, except TEM 6 absolutely nothing. Let me add this: that the company with 100 % state ownership, which returns all its profits to the budget every year, did not participate in the biggest investment in Slovenia and was not engaged in business with even one euro. This is a very clear indicator for me; and this is a 100 percent state-owned company! This is a clear indication of how management managed this investment. Of course, after the agreement had to be obtained for the guarantee, then the policy was firmly put in place, not to say in concrete terms, even our national assembly. However, look, even from the time the guarantee law came through with the so-called relationship agreement on the replacement block 6 project, management should report, submit all the documentation, all the derogations referred to in the contract. The deadline for this reporting was until 30 June 2013. This management of the legal provision we adopted in the National Assembly with the law of guarantee did not take into account. Instead of producing this report on the operation and state of the investment, they came up with an unfinished new investment plan called NIP 6, which envisioned a new incentive rather than to report on the actual state and implementation of the current financial scheme, so-called NIP 5. And now, a week after that, it's 30. 6, is 8. Seven. 2013 The Slovenian Democratic Party submitted a request for an extraordinary meeting with the proposals of the three new recommendations. In order to require management to implement the statutory provisions in accordance with the guarantee law. But no. Look, today we've heard from our colleagues in Desus twice that they've now contributed their signatures to this act. I'm very happy. I am very glad that after a year and a half you missed, because you were then voting against these recommendations to fulfil their marriage obligations in accordance with the guarantee contract. I am pleased that opinions change and return to those legal frameworks that are set. Finally, all I would say is that I expect from this investigative commission that it will be successful, that it will not have the path that the committee has had to investigate irregularities in the banking system, because today, despite a large number of complaints and a large number of irregularities found in banking, no case has received a final or any judicial epilogue. But that's a matter of court. Yes, the matter of the judiciary is already in hand in the case of Thermal Power Plant Šostjanj. A lot of criminal complaints filed that I'm not talking about property data, today 3 million, tomorrow 2 million, tomorrow 2 million, tomorrow's million, after a while, no funds and so on. We could've all followed that in the media. But where is the judiciary? That is why I fear that this investigative commission will follow the path of the investigative commission on banking. I believe and hope that this is also what the government coalition wants, that in this commission of inquiry, those irregularities identified will receive their own judicial epilogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Marjan Dolinšek has the floor to prepare Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u100	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellows! Today we are discussing the Act on the appointment of a parliamentary inquiry to determine the political responsibility of public function holders in Block 6 of the TEC. I have to agree with my predecessor, it would be good to have business responsibilities here. Who is responsible, the names and surnames exist, has been enough to date deceptions, distortions and lies. At one of the meetings of the National Assembly, I made it clear what will happen, what is necessary for the normal operation of TEŠ 6, this is the construction of an unloading station for imported coal worth between 10 and 15 million, because the stocks of Velenje Coal are insufficient. We know what she's like. To date, there has been no clear answer as to the price at which coal could be imported, where offers are offered, why there is no response to our claims and questions. Furthermore, the fact that a lease is needed – Eles, an additional 205-megawatt tertiary reserve. Taking into account the average annual value of the lease, the megawatt to the tertiary reserve and multiplying it by 40 years, as much as TEŠ 6 is expected to operate, this would amount to about EUR 400 million. This is because the initial planned investment in no more than 400-megawatt block in Velenj and the 200-megawatt block to be built in Trbovje. To this day, no one has explained that. Today we would not face the problem of TET, which is in liquidation. In TES the story continues, the project, the value of TES 6, grows every day and the beard continues to grow. First of all, I must say that in this case it is another completely hidden expense of the project TES 6. The investment programme, which was formally reviewed by the audit committee in 2012, did not include hearing or spirit. But it's more than obvious that it's been known for a long time. It is interesting, however, that they started talking about this in December 2014. A month ago. What's this all about again? The water in the boiler, which circulates in the so-called process and changes the aggregate state from steam to water, while broadcasting the work that we are transforming into electricity, must be preheated before the process begins. I will not provide accurate technical data for B 6 or TES 6, so I will illustrate this in the case of the 125-megawat coal unit in Trbevi. Since the block in the TET is standing and it is winter outside, all devices and media in them are cooled to the temperature environment. The boiler water, which we still have in the tanks, is also cooled to a circus of 5 degrees. If we want to start the plant today, we should first preheat this water to 80 degrees. The total volume of water circulating in the process is 120 cubic metres, and this process is subject to the so-called Steam Block or Parawater boiler. It's in the boiler room and it's multi-purpose. Among other things, it is used for heating spaces. Its consumption is 340 litres ELKO per hour. Only when this water is heated can the process of circulation begin, is the power supply of the pump and the execution of all other procedures to vaporise the water and run the turbine with steam. First, we do this with oil burners, 2400 litres of ELKO per hour, four burners times and then we turn coal mills or coal burners on. In TET, oil consumption for start-up is between 20,000 and 30,000 litres and depends mainly on the hypothermia of devices. Now we can imagine the monstrous consumption of TES. B 6 is about 5 times larger and I hope to say that all media – water, oil – is at least 4 times higher than in TET. The start of the block obviously requires enormous heat energy, which could be obtained by using a similar Steam Block, which obviously does not have enough heat power. It is more than obvious that they want to preheat the water with steam available to them either from steaming suits to B 4 or B 5. But it sounds like the giants are talking about bringing even B3 back to life for that purpose. This is an energy and cost-effective monster work – one of the solutions available is the installation of a stronger water boiler on ELKO, or on biomass. 100 tons of money per hour, which is unofficially needed for this, is a lot. This is needed every time it is started or block 6 is launched. This gives the circus 33% conventional performance to obtain more than 30 megawatts of electricity. At the same time, let me say you're heating up the whole of Zasavje with this heat. But I still hope to say that 5 million, that's not my idea, that's what the profession calculated, that's not gonna be enough for any technical solution. So, there's a new 5 minion cartridge in TES 6. It is extremely inappropriate for me not to express myself in any uncultured way, that today all of us Members, the Government and our citizens are being drawn to something. Who's playing with who? Who's stupid? We can wait for another fact tomorrow. To date, there is no NIP 6. It's a disaster! Will we continue to see how they continue to lead their story for the private benefits and disadvantages of our citizens who are paying for it in front of our eyes? Let's say this is a stop. Let's demand that actors answer for their actions. Let the commission do its work and start doing it as soon as possible!Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Procedurally, please, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President or Vice-President of the National Assembly. I would ask you if you would ask Mr Hanzko to comment on these technological and technical parameters, which have now been mentioned in this debate. Indeed, the applicant of the Commission of Inquiry must also respond to such statements as have now been submitted. One is the purpose of the Commission of Inquiry, and the other is what it appears to be, and the debates of Members and such things cannot be left without a response. I'd ask nicely if you'd ask him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Hanžek may, after his assessment, make an announcement at any time as a proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u104	Yes, I will; when it will be [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u105	Here you go, Mr. Hanzek. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u106	My fellow Member, when he proposes a health law, explained to me how he is operating on the heart. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Bell Lah, please. Get ready, Dr. Dragan Matič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u108	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, hello! I'm not going to serve with technical and technological data like my predecessor before, but these things aren't as negligible as we probably don't know them here. I would therefore suggest that he would be on this investigative committee, but he would be able to contribute a lot if the proposalr could not be more specific. I mean, to start here, I've been in a mess since 2008. I recall that right at the beginning of the mandate, when it was shown that investments in TES 6 would be significantly more expensive than originally envisaged, and when it was shown that the price of electricity would not be the same as it was at the beginning when this investment was planned, it would go up to €550 per megawatt hour – we know what the price is now – and that this project will inherit an investment. In our party, we proposed that when it was invested at the beginning of only 25 million in this project, the government should consider continuing this investment when it was shown how it is on the way. Of course, they immediately put their colleagues there on the other side, who then came from that end, one of them was mayors, one of them was mayors, and of course immediately alerted what a disaster would be, how many thousands of people would be without a job, how the coal mine would have to be closed. Of course, our warnings were not heeded, and then the way went forward. Every now and then, we got information about how much more expensive this investment is. Then we reached the guarantee and we discussed a lot about it and now we're where we are. Now, obviously, this dirty work needs to be covered with some investigative committee, where certain things will be searched and then everything will be swept under the carpet. I'm not sure at the time I'm in Parliament, because somehow too successful has not yet been any investigative committee. And there were no real epilogues so far. There will probably be some of the culprits who are already looking, who we'll find with a million of them somewhere in a vault or a bank, where there's a total of 700 million or I don't know, at least half a billion in my mind, where this went, that big spill will never be known. And the thing will be forgotten and in a few years we will be discussing here, here we will discuss how to give this TES 6 to close, how we do not know what ecological initiatives and that economic production of electricity in this way is not justified and we will simply forget about this matter. But at that time, if God gives, we'll be building another nuclear power plant to replace everything, and I think it'll go this way. Therefore, we are not too sure in our party that it will produce any results, but it is likely that the media will have much to write about covering again some current or today's activities that are going to be done in a similar sense or in a similar way as they were then in this investment. We have heard about the second track, that once again there will be a billion 400, as some say there would be 700 million, maybe one such project is back on track where some will be able to anoint themselves not with individual millions, but with dozens or even hundreds of millions. That is why I do not place any great hopes on this committee, but it does not matter how it is made up. Even though those of you who came forward weren't politically bound to some parties or some lobbyist in the back, you'll probably think there's something you can do, and I doubt that's gonna happen. Perhaps it would be wiser to deal with the things that are ahead of us, how we will continue to create economic goods for the people we represent here or who we serve; and leave this to those professions that are also paid for it and, in my opinion, work as far as it can be discovered and money, believe me, it will not be back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Tanko. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would very much like to ask you once again to explain to us the technical and technological parameters for determining the requirement for a parliamentary commission of inquiry. Clearly, these data and these changes are very important for the purpose of this Commission of Inquiry. I think that whoever proposes the agenda item, which is first signed, needs to know about the proposal on the table more than others and must also be able to give an argument or deny it, otherwise it will be as if this order, the request for an investigative commission were written somewhere and Mr Hanžek came to read it. If the Commission of Inquiry were to be appointed in this way, it would turn out to be radically lame. It's radically lame. Therefore, I propose that the proposaler take some time, make an effort, and those things that have been said here also comment and argue whether or not they hold, are real, are not real, are not important, they are not important and so on. In short, just letting the debate go away is really radically unnecessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u111	Thank you very much. I've already said that Mr. Hanžek can come by whenever he wants. We are not talking so much about technology today, but we are talking mainly about the reasons before the parliamentary investigation, the key reasons. Here you go, Mr. Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u112	Thank you for your word, chairman. It will soon be half a year, which we have been elected here, and frankly, I have slowly enough to be Mr Tanko, with all due respect for him, some Member who has more rights than others. I ask that these meetings behave a little more in dignity. I also see the veneer leaving here after 15 years, and Mr Tanko I know that someone has this background in education, and I'm not asking him why the veneer is leaving here. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u113	Thank you very much. We've got to skip something. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor. Let Mr Bojan Podkoršek prepare. Mr. Han, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Because I have only a minute now we are listening here, I will say, energy experts, we are listening already to some half witch who see what is going to happen, and I hope that the competent institutions in this country, namely, the NPU, the prosecution, the judiciary, will discover those non-disclosures that they are about to steal or acquire large funds for this investment, which was certainly not transparent. [[…]] But I have to add one thing. In general, it has been seized that this investment has involved social democracy in these works, which some call them. I must tell you that I look forward to this political investigation, that this will somehow be cleared up, but we, the Social Democrats, are extremely proud that we have been in power in Velenj for 25 years and that we have good mayors in Velenj who are developing well. And I do not see any mayor in Slovenia who would not fight for investment in his place, of course under certain transparent conditions. Because otherwise we will be able to open, as one said, I don't know, a highway cross where every mayor fought for some part of the bypass, for some bridge, and we didn't put them on the cross because they fought in some way for a good thing. So I expect a proper and fair, proper investigative committee to deliver the result [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor to prepare Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u116	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! Of course, this afternoon when it snows, we are talking again about the Valley of Shale, TEŠ 6 and the Commission of Inquiry. We have initially heard from the proposaler that this is a very good opportunity for these things to be explored, because there are many new Members and Members of Parliament. Of course I agree with that. I'm new myself. Of course, certainly all those who are new, we knew before entering this Parliament where the Shale Valley was, we knew that TEŠ 6 was being built, and we also followed through the media to give the guarantee. I myself have listened with interest in the past, and I remember the two mayors of Velenje City Hall defending themselves for this guarantee. Thus, the former mayor, who led this municipality several mandates, and the current mayor, who was also an MP when the guarantee was given. Of course, I absolutely believe, as the head of the SD Group said, that the mayors who run these municipalities have already had several mandates. I certainly believe them, and even then I believed them when they stood up for this guarantee and when they cared for the Valley of Shale, and especially the employees who are employed in this institution. Of course, I would not like to talk today about the expertise of this project, because I am not skilled at it. I have followed several investigative commissions in the past in the 25-year history of Slovenia. And I don't remember very well when the commissions found out that there were a lot of these for the supplies or that even the finances were being reimbursed. But it didn't just happen for one reason. If I go back 25 years to history; of course Slovenia has a legislative branch of power, we are somehow doing so. We also proved this at the previous point when we talked about traineeships. We have an executive branch of power, including this functioning, of course, with liked and even less-loving laws. But we have a judicial branch of power — and here is the problem! If this judicial branch were properly regulated in 1990, it would certainly be much less investigative commissions in Slovenia and much less infuriation, crime, irregularities, and much less political flooding on the one hand or on the other. I did not come to Parliament myself to find out who is responsible for TES 6, but I will certainly take the initiative to find the culprits, but I think it is more important that we regulate the judiciary for our future. Here I think the key problem is "tesevi", which is not just one in Slovenia. In Slovenia we have more "tese". Today, when we talk about the Valley of Shale, we also talk a lot about the third development axis. I sincerely wish that this valley would get this axis as soon as possible, and I sincerely wish that this axis would not be built so that those who sit behind us in Parliament will again set up an investigative commission where this money went. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Dr. Franc Duck [[…]] Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u118	Thank you so much for your words, Mr President! I would like to ask you to invite Mr Hanzek to answer some of the questions and discussions that have been raised here. In fact, today we are discussing the appointment of a parliamentary inquiry by TES 6. Mr. Hanžek replied that he would like to talk about the functioning of the heart, perhaps even the resuscitation, but he will probably talk about TES 6. Now that the debate on TES 6 is on health and health issues. So I suggest you call him, even though I know he has the right to come forward alone, but because he doesn't come forward and ask him to respond to all these dilemmas that arise. Otherwise, it will be a very bad feeling in the public eye that this matter that we are talking about today is not being produced where we should be, but somewhere else. And that what is happening in this investigative committee is essentially just lending names for some purpose and for some thing to be brought into the parliamentary bench. The proposer of the agenda item has a special responsibility, has special rights, has special opportunities, and probably is not enough to read the introduction and to end with three sentences of conclusion, it is said what they have prepared or ordered. Its task is to argue, confirm or reject the debates of Members. I have kindly asked you to ask him not to answer whether the debates of Members on these technological parameters are held or not. I think it is the duty of the proposer to answer these questions, otherwise the situation will be the same as for most of the agenda items where the proposaler of the Government, when he announces a lot of time, and then, as Mr Gorenak said yesterday, blink. And today I see that Mr. Hanžek has blinked too.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Hanzek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u120	Thanks for the calls. At the end, I have 30 minutes, and I'm going to make good use of them, and I'm going to say everything I know and I think I should say it. Now all I can say is that politicians who know everything do the most damage. Influence money, and so I will always leave these things to those experts who know about it. I know a lot of other things, and I'm going to get involved in those things, and I'm going to end up telling you everything I know. However, I am sure that the entire Commission of Inquiry will also work well with the help of experts, that we will not invent some data ourselves, and that is it. I'll see you later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Dr. Franz Ducky, please, your word. Get Mr. Marijan Pojbič ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, chairman. Since I've got a lot of time, this time I'll be in a hurry for a change. First of all, as in any good opera, I will make an overture; of course, as my colleague Mahnic said, we could give Mr Tank an honorary doctorate for processivity now, and I would much agree with that, but instead of these mutual insults, which could be more or less intellectual, I would be very happy if we came from this veneer, and my colleague Tanko would draw some of his old expertise, let's say, to talk about woodworking energy as part of a smart specialization in Slovenia. All right, we're going to TES End of Upture, it was short, it's usually longer in the opera. Let's go to TES. I'm just gonna say about what I'm informed about and what I know, except for cooking tea, I'm not much of an expert on steamers, I admit, but I know they're jamming themselves up in nuclear power plants a lot. Or because someone from Westinghouse, who is now Japanese, comes up with some repairs or not, they should ask experts who somehow master it. When I was somehow preparing for this debate and thinking up and down today, here is often called 'how', Slovenia balkanized, corruption, kleptocracy, nepotism and so on, as in one editorial of someone, as called this side of the circle, wrote the editorial: with these issues of course all societies are facing today. More about this, colleague Bojan Dobovšek could teach us, which is also, if you like, a great expert on this after Sicris. He partially told us about the quota trade. What am I talking about now? No society, even a democratic society with tradition, is immune to what is, of course, not an excuse not to do so. When I thought about it this morning, I remembered the European Central Bank. We talked a lot about her this week. There in Frankfurt, Germany – which is largely numbered by colleagues from New Slovenia who are now completely absent, "Ordnung muss sein" and so on – have started building a new byte that is supposed to be first worth or cost half a billion, now almost as TES came for a billion and a half. In short, look, we probably learn well in the West if I touch it that way. The story about TER 6 has been heard many times today in various shades, up and down; of course, if I had 25 years of mayor in Velenje, I would have known similarly as colleagues in SD, but the fact is that you were one in this byte in such or other compositions, not the other. It is also clear that there are many others, because the people probably have enough of the first or even more of the first things you did, which somehow did. Partly because you were obviously Members of Parliament, you were somehow too critical, too skeptical. A colleague, whom I value very much in a variety of areas, works well in committees, said that there was 400 million on the table and we trusted the experts. I don't believe my kid when he tells me he needs 10 euros for school. What do you need them for, tell me! It's a very expensive school. Let's go back to TES 6. I'm not going to mention all the governments that were here that could at least reconsider the project if they haven't stopped it somehow. We must also be aware of the so-called energy sites. TET is also an energy location that we will now lose, which was in the "friendly fire" of this project TES 6, probably has been there for decades. We also need to talk about things that we call hidden knowledge in the organization theory that somehow exist in some environment. As far as I am aware of the story TEŠ 6 is concerned, there is a desire of some gentlemen to trade a little with coal. You know, at the beginning of 25 years of this country we're having an arms affair, the Americans would say it's the mother of all our affairs, and the gentleman was talking about how he's going to expose it, and he's never here until he's gone, and after 25 years we've got a granddaughter, we've got TES 6. We have in common – I will quote the very dear Frančko Drenovac – the collapse of the elite. And now we are, I have something on "k" at the end of the language, where unfortunately we are somehow. In the meantime – I will quote Miha Mazzini, his first book of Drobtinica – "Svattice" – first of all we have a constitutional attempt by some bank saver who will now be a one-time special event that will cost us almost half a billion; then we have deleted, which is a disgrace, some of these legal states around which most of the policies then agree – let us stop blinding ourselves. Then I have some shameful referendums of a guy who can be artificially fertilized, who doesn't; then I have referendums when citizens are supposed to decide, I don't know how Slovenian railways will go forward, even though they weren't clear on their own; then we have stories about archives where some pingpong government versus the opposition was, and it cost us, which I will always repeat, almost as much as all archives in Slovenia get in one financial year. Let's go back to TES 6. Of course, there was a story, one of the lobbies, where almost all the politics of the day were involved. Maybe with the partial exception of New Slovenia, but not this one, because she had some important gentleman in some government – all good things about the dead, would not now return to Drnovsk, would not now somehow return to Mr Bayuk. Recently, I have seen the show that is being recorded in Del from Wednesday to Wednesday by Ali Jerdin, and my colleague Markesh, who no longer likes an option and sees it as a conversion – little reminds me of those two nerds from the Muppet show, but it's worth watching. And what is Ali Jerdin, who is monitoring of these 25 years of collapse of the elite, there said: We of course have different sectors in this country, society and energy is some supersector. Energy is a supersector that – I will use this word, maybe I will get a reminder – a policy in this country "hold eggs". State secretaries who worked in the field of energy or who were pushed against the wall by energy lobbying or who were part of these energy lobbying. A gentleman who is a farmer, how does he survive from 18,000 a year – why did he fly out of politics and now he's digging from behind and he's probably going to destroy SMC? Not because Gregor Golobich was found there. You know, if they want to destroy you, they'll destroy you in 15 minutes. He flew away because he was shivering into the energy lobby to a large extent at the time. Do you remember? You have so much historical memory, probably. And that's the problem, that's the problem! I'm not an expert on pairing, but this TES 6, I'm sorry, a story with no end, which no politician hopes to stop. You know, colleague Katičeva, who, I believe, was well shaved by the energy of the so-called chalice lobby, says, I don't know, it was initially estimated at 700 million, then it went up to a billion and a half, then they had to, because HES was heavy, put it down to a billion and two hundred. I already put it on Facebook. I mean, I don't go shopping for potatoes like that. To go to the market, he'll say, "Hey, Franjo, now I'll give you for the euro, I won't give you for two euros. Okay. I'll give you for the euro and a half." Please! I hope that this research will at least find out who this type of and such uses somehow made of this project. I have a big head, I have no memory of a goldfish, and I remember very well how the power of block 6 was lifted. Why were they picking her up? Let's stop bluffing, because then for the one with the lower power, there were quite a few manufacturers in the world who could compete. When they picked her up, there were fewer. Why does Alstom have so much trouble around the world and so many lawsuits that have been happening lately? Comrade Križanič explained somehow part of the rise in the value of the thermal power plant block. Even if we somehow buy it, it still cuts us half a billion. And let's make a guarantee with it. Let's start talking a little bit about these pennies! I realize that I'm just a sociologist who thinks the most about the economy, but I always hear that sociologists never do anything, up, down, the United Left has no idea about the economy. My dears, four hundred million is the budget of Ljubljana. When Jankovic drops it on the real floor before Christmas, the newspapers don't even answer. In what normal country will a man who says that the manager is rebalancing your budget before Christmas, and no one will throw it out of power? Plus the budget of Maribor, plus the budget of Murska Sobota, plus the budget of a couple of medium-sized municipalities – Boveca is possible because I am looking at a colleague. And don't touch that half a million more. I'm looking at the budget balance where it's going to be cut. Science and research, and then we're going to indulge in the knowledge society, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. Every politician who can't even buy shoes can teach him – a society of knowledge. Where are we going to work in a knowledge society? Because we balance these debts up and down, one and the other, if we don’t make a breakthrough – it’s a little boring for me to talk about this smart specialization if we don’t consider what we’re going to do. [[…]] These are the problems. The same as the problem that colleague Lah always warns about, these conduits, which half of Slovenia does not yet have. All due respect, but because it's going to go into the next perspective, there's not going to be anything else going on. Because of this granddaughter of Slovenian affairs, there will be nothing else to do. About this investigation. I have to say, personally, I'm a little skeptical because I'm afraid we're not gonna get that far, where those pennies went. This is probably the area of another branch of authority that will deal with it. A very nice speech was given by colleague Dobovšek and I agree with what he said. But it's kind of an important warning that this kind of super-energy system that's always going to invent and play something over and over again. After all, our responsibility, as set out in Article 82 of the Constitution, is to look beyond these local-regional issues. Due to TES 6 and due to the energy indiscretion in Slovenia, some ministries will now have a lot of work to do with Zasav, due to TES 6 the exhaustion of Drava power plants is taking place. The story with TER 6, however we turn here, is also the weight of the giant buttons. I don't believe in coincidences anymore in Slovenia – I'm afraid I'm too old. It's kind of hard to buy this idea with all the knowledge we've got in Velenje mine. Even if we didn't have the knowledge, you know, in Leobne, Austria, we have a very close world-leading institution for this kind of study, and we'd give them 2 million more, and we'd be told how and what. I don't know if the research is going to deal with this or whether it's going to link this sequence. Because in this House I see that this logic of perplexity is somehow too absent. When we talk about energy – I am very sad that Mr Tanko has left the debate room – as we very much like to talk about in many subjects. Of course, colleague Hanžek is not an energy man, but we also have some experts, not just in SDS and not just in SD, who will tell us something that will teach us something. When my colleague Križanič talked about how the price of steel was rising, I have information that Alstom's power plants in Germany have problems due to inquality steel. Whether this happens to us or not, you may have better information in some client, major experts involved. Are we going to be looking at some reservations again from the budget, swap accounts, and then not, for example, for a school in nature because it's superstandard? Or, for example, systematic school violence because schools don't have that and that kind of knowledge. In short, we still have an energy lobby that controls us. We've all got an anonymous tip, if you want, about a nuclear lobby. We have not even 20, a dozen gentlemen circling up and down. I believe I'm going to get some death threats back on my email today and who's going to kill me in Maribor and when. Because that's what they do. That's what they try to do. I'm probably not the only one here. It seems to me it's high time we actually cut these guys' tits off from this bitch called the state of Slovenia – here I mean affirmatively on pigs. After all, there is an old variety of Slovenian pigs in Krška, with very good marble – here, colleague Lisec is moving, probably already tried, ate. In short, if I go a little bit further, the investigative commission must be a warning; the investigative commission, however, I hope, that although I am here pessimist, that there will be some results, the investigative commission and its work, I hope that there will also be an opportunity to cleanse and rejuvenate some of the parties, as Bojan has said, although I am not one of those, I am not sitting here, perhaps in ten years if the train does not run over me, I will tell others what else to do or third parties. The interest of all of us is that we are going seriously to this investigative committee. Of course, the SDS with its tactics and strategies legitimately, legally doing what it does, as far as I was aware, wanted to have in this proposal – let Matjaž correct me if I am wrong – some names and surnames that we did not want to put in. As far as I know, they somehow wanted to reduce the role of the Janša government 2004-2008 in this regard.We are, of course, new in Parliament, much more learning, far from being able to compare myself with my colleague Irgla after knowledge, much less beauty, even with my colleague Han, with my colleague Tank, but we are not so many lefts again. [[…]] And then it's stuck around these signatures, then let's be honest! But if that's in everyone's interest, we can go over it; and as I can talk about a whole series of things as a colleague in the hallway in the first place. After all, we're coworkers. We're human. You know, I've got so much beast in me that once you get me to the plants, I'm going to insult you all so much that you'll cry that you've ever been elected to this Parliament. Don't make me turn around like that! I'm acting now. My buddy's already a little freaked out. Cinkova's colleague hid her face. In short, well, let's take this matter seriously, I would even like to change the rules of procedure – now people are going crazy – to turn off the TVs and do a little more serious work, a little less theater. Weapons affairs are probably never going to be explored, as some who are still alive are not in the interest of doing good — about some. I hope that at least somehow we will explore this to some extent, I hope that we will finally be aware of it somehow. Of course, we're being pressured, we're being acted upon by such and other lobbyists that we have some responsibility, but not just, here, for six months, we're just pingponging here. At first we dealt with some gentleman who is largely not in Parliament I don't know, he has a higher salary than I do; a kid, I work three times as much in Parliament as he does. [[…]] You know who I'm thinking about. Let's also give the laws a little bit of investment and acceptance, not for the sake of making fun of each other, but that we're going to move things around somewhere, because you know, otherwise I'm going to give up, I think I have something smarter to do in my life. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Dr. Duck. I just have to, in view of your comment, your parliamentary group was not against us starting to write a code of Members. That is, I would ask if slowly — we do not have it yet — but slowly make an introduction to this codex. Secondly, of course, you went with some debates indeed, I will say, past the agenda item, although it is extremely pleasant to listen to you. Procedurally has Mr. Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I have a procedural proposal in which I would like to draw attention to the distinguished Dr. Franz Trček, who, in his debate, has beheaded himself and to the Slovenian public that there is none of the Members of New Slovenia here in the Chamber. If Mr Franz Trček looked at the clock, I believe that, as a doctor of science, he also knows the digital clock, then he would see that New Slovenia has spent its time usefully. Another thing I would see is that New Slovenia is the sixth largest, but it has announced the third longest time, which is 25 minutes for this point because this point is very important. And if we have to put accounts on Mr Trček where we are going when we are not here, because there is only one place under physical law, I was at the office of the New Slovenia Group, together with colleagues, where we finished and have now submitted an urgent meeting of the Committee on Finance on the issue of tax bills. I hope that you will engage well and properly there, as always. So, dear colleague Trček, it is not right and I expect you to apologize, this is also my procedural proposal and a request to apologize to the New Slovenia Group and to the Slovenian public that you have made a mistake. I expect your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Dr. Duck, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u126	Dear colleague, I am truly and very pleased to apologize to you. The physical fact was that you weren't in at the time, and I wasn't checking in with UDIS. I have no doubt, given your experience, that the proposal will be a good one. Why are you laughing? I mean, they're really on the other side of the circle, and on the other hand, they're the closest. My colleague Jozek and I are also very good at working together in many areas – my clients will fight me again. Always do. You know, there's something on us, French. I basically love you all, I mean, it's my big mistake. That's right. True, we often get some letters from the party soldiers, because it's not in there, because there's no one else in there. Well, we're also monitoring these meetings from our offices. We are also doing a lot of things, but given that you are the most prominent party in the National Assembly, let us say, representing capital or – colleague Novakova has looked at me very badly right now. I really like your jacket today, I have to admit. But well, a joke on the side — or employers and employees — would somehow like someone to be present. I've been in this room a lot of times when we've been smoking all the time, and I've been around a lot of times on some topics that I really don't know much about, you know why? [[…]] Our 6-year-old says, "Dad, we're interested in the ducks." That's right! Once again, my friend Horvath. I can invite you to a drink in the middle of an apology. [[advertising from the hall]] What?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u127	That's good. Thank you very much. Mr. Marian Pojbich, please. Get Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u128	Thank you, Mr Vice President. After this theatre, which has now been in Parliament, and one really hard to gather, I must say. Because you can't seriously discuss after a debate I've previously heard from Mr. Duck. I really have to say this. He said nothing, but I have to say it in the end. This is the greatest sadness when debaters in Parliament, instead of discussing the agenda, talk about the abilities they have as conductors and so on. But that's not the topic or the point of this agenda, is it? Mr Vice-President, I would also like to ask you to remind those debaters in the future when they are procedurally saying that they should speak in a procedural manner. This debate by Mr Trčko was not a procedural issue at all. I think I'm right. I'm asking you to warn the debater next time. So let me get back to the subject we're discussing today. I must say that I support this parliamentary investigation and at the same time I am convinced that not only I, as a member of the Slovenian Democratic Party, but also the entire party, the Slovenian Democratic Party, therefore, supports this parliamentary investigation, because it is absolutely important to get to the bottom of this mafia, criminally – I tell her so – a group that, at all possible levels, steals tax money in all possible ways. I think that this TER 6 in addition to this big bank hole is one of the indicators and a reminder to those who have the ability to influence it in one way or another, to do everything we can to prevent such things. But I think there have been a lot of words today about how much politics is at fault here. I agree that politics is involved and involved, but when I speak of myself, I must make it very clear that as a politician I have absolutely nothing to do with it, regardless of the fact that I am four mandates in the National Assembly. Nothing at all! I didn't have the slightest effect on what happened. Not even the slightest impact. We know what the powers of the legislative branch of power are, and what we have adopted in the National Assembly, it has already been said a hundred times that we are not experts, that experts have prepared, and that decisions have also been made in the National Assembly. And we have nothing to do with what was going on in the background with that criminal group that was then laundering money through this project. Neither the policy nor this parliamentary investigation will be the one that will be able to respond to this problem in a qualitative manner, for which we have the appropriate authorities in this country; but those authorities that should have been monitoring this matter from the very beginning from 2003 onwards. Nonstop and media and policy – different – have highlighted this issue. They're alerted! I don't know where these bodies slept: the judiciary, the police, and so on. Where were they? We have also spoken and warned politicians on this subject many times in the National Assembly, and they should monitor and prevent this matter because they have all the instruments in their hands while there is no policy. At least not the National Assembly, at least not the National Assembly. That's why I don't feel guilty or responsible for what happened in this shit. Just like I don't feel and I'm not guilty about what happened in the banks that created these bank holes because we didn't have any influence on this place. I am sure that no Member sitting here, and a Member of this National Assembly, was in TES and took the money. No one! And no Member, I'm sure. So when I listened earlier — how was it said? – involved policy. "We were not present because we had not yet been to the National Assembly." So all the rest of us who were in the National Assembly are responsible for the situation that took place in TES. But we didn't! There are completely others to blame, but they are in one way or another connected with politics, but I am sure that it is not us Members who have the key word here. Once again, this problem would not have been the case if the relevant authorities, who were paid, were trained and knew what was going on and did not respond. We should react and today we would not have a billion 400 spent money on TES 6, but maybe 700 or 750 or 800 million, which would probably be that real price. And they didn't do anything! Nothing. Nothing until today! They haven't locked anyone up yet, they haven't taken anyone's property, and so on. When are we going to get to this point in this country to not only lock up these bastards, we're going to get them all the property they stole? They have to prove it in some way! I have proof for every cent I own. And where is he? We have adopted legislation in the National Assembly that allows them to do so without a problem. But where are we? We come back to the story of the judicial branch of power. What are they doing? And in the end, we are always and for all we are Members of the National Assembly. And that's what's really starting to bother me. Who have virtually no leverage to be able, except that we are adopting legislative changes and new laws, we have no influence on the possibility of seducing these bastards where they belong. We have those organs for that, and they should do it. And TER 6 would not have lasted until that time, as much money as it had been for these authorities to do their job would have been used. Therefore, I think that this parliamentary investigation is, of course, still necessary, I absolutely support it, but I do not think that this parliamentary investigation will reveal those thieves, the key thieves who are responsible and responsible for the fact that so much money has gone into their pockets. We won't. Those who could do so – and I hope that they will start working on it and that these thieves will catch it and that the money will be returned to the state budget, not that they have it after the oasis and I don't know where everywhere, but we know, we know about the financial flows, but nothing happens. That's the problem. But it's not a problem here in the National Assembly and me, it's the problem of someone else who's responsible in the country.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u129	Thank you. Procedurally, please, Dr. Trcek
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u130	Thank you for your word. I will come from pragmatism in the language; Ost is one of the leading authors. My friend Pojbič, whom I am very happy to listen to, said that I did not say anything clever but nothing about TEŠ 6 As far as I listened to him, he even less said about TEŠ 6, he now had talks about thieves, unless I understood correctly. [[…]] It is true that we like to abuse procedural issues very much, but at one of the previous meetings, your group leader spoke alone for more than five hours, had some twenty-two procedural issues, and of those twenty-five, he abused them. In short, in relation to Mr. Tank, I'm a terribly bad student of procedural abuse. I don't mind, and I would very much like the presidents to be a little more strict about this. However, I am slowly taking up more than I am hanging out with my colleague Jožet, even a little manner, I expect my colleague Pojbič to apologize to me, and after all we will work together in Styria, and I would not be very happy if we looked so little at the bar. In short, I expect your apology, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u131	Thank you very much. I have to say, Dr. Duck, that Mr. Tank is not here and he's having a hard time defending himself, so... [[…]] Procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u132	So, that's all: what Comrade Duck has just said was not a procedural proposal again. Of course, I apologize to Mr Trček if any of my discussions have been misinterpreted or that I have said anything that I should not have said or that was offensive to Mr Trček.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. Pojbich. Mr Danilo Anton Ranc has the floor to prepare Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u134	Thank you for your word. Members of the National Assembly have a great responsibility to citizens and citizens, I expect that as legislator we will respond to clienteleism and other social anomalies. Sometimes when I listen to this argument on my left and right, I don't think some people feel these responsibilities. In the past, two important political parties have accused each other of being responsible for the TES 6 project, and in fact both have participated in the project on the design of the implementation as well as in the issuance of the State guarantee, and in the background, the battle of lobbyists with interest in energy and the sale of equipment, electricity and Indonesian coal imports has been taking place at all times. I do not advocate that the National Assembly judge whether we need TES 6 or not. Recent discussions on the energy concept of Slovenia have shown that the import energy dependence of Slovenia needs to be reduced; the TES project is based on a domestic energy source that would remain unused and Slovenian energy would then be solved by Chinese solar panels, by burning wood that could be converted into high value-added products. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The emissary's on fire. [[…]] Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor. Then the proposer should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! I must say that in some way I myself can have little fun in these debates, which, to some extent, are also useful, because in every word that is said, there is also some truth and also some possible solution in the right direction. Let me start by saying what I have already said in the Member's position that we also support the introduction of this commission of inquiry, and as I said, we expected it to be established even earlier, as many of the parties currently in the coalition have been very much exposed in the pre-election period to the issue of the Šostjanje Thermoelectrica and the management of this investment. This is how we expected this commission of inquiry to be established even earlier. In some ways, however, I am surprised by all these debates, because there is a way of stressing or trying to push the blame into Parliament, the government, as if Parliament and the government were running individual projects. I think that this is too much or very simplistic and similar things we also experience in sent offices when people turn to Members for every matter and say, you have once again taken a bad solution, although the regulation, the regulation, the regulation or some thing that is purely in the operational competence of individual departments and ministries, but if it comes to a media outlet, later on, everyone forgets that it was not in the domain of reception in the National Assembly, but they are all guilty Members. The same thing happens in this one. It is true that individual documents in the construction of the Block 6 Thermoelectricarium were confirmed in the National Assembly, including resolutions and other documents, and it is important that we have also confirmed the guarantee and that in this case there is no great desire, including for Members, that at least those commitments imposed by the guarantee law would be carried out in some way, not even through the fact that the National Assembly would require more actively from individual entities that the guarantee law be respected, nor does the Government implement it in the manner prescribed by this Act. The Commission of Inquiry, or this order on the Commission of Inquiry and the material submitted, is lacking to some extent. I think that there was some response from the applicants in view of my initial presentation that they took into account our comments we made, but I still say that most of those constructive comments were not taken into account in the material. I believe that at the time of the investigation a number of things will be further enlightened and explained and that it will be possible at that stage when the Commission acts, to hear more from those who will lead this committee. I also believe that cooperation with us as a parliamentary group will also be, because of course we intend to participate actively in this commission of inquiry, constructively as far as this is concerned. I can say that we have made it clear on several occasions, in our decision on the commission of inquiry in the parliamentary group, that we support this investigation. But I am also skeptical of what this investigation will ultimately bring, because it is largely responsible for violations not related to politics, but mainly for the implementation of a project in individual companies, which are still in 100% state ownership, but have their own rules of play and also have their own, I would say, an organ chart and also a timeline, and there is probably a concrete responsibility through this. I hope that the authorities that have the authority to investigate this will also fully detect and confirm these things. We too advocate in the Group of Members that those in this process have somehow acquired some assets in an illegal way to answer, irrespective of who they belong to, either politically or also in terms of economic responsibility. Previously, some debates have said: the policy has been involved in this project. Of course, she cooperated, because laws and certain documents are clearly adopted by policy, but she accepts them for all the projects that are taking place in this country. But where they're going well, we don't have any problems. It will be difficult for us to directly burden the National Assembly, the policy as it is to blame for TES being in such a situation as it is now. I think that policy has also been quite active in the past in warning that the project needs to be reconsidered and reviewed at a time when this was still meaningful. But it didn't make sense when the guarantee marriage came to the table. I have already explained to you once that if the guarantee law were not adopted, the obligation of the State would be significantly greater. Because a company that owns 100 percent would also hire a loan to close the investment. It is clear, however, that it would be subsidiaryly responsible for this credit state, since both HSE and TES are in 100 % state ownership. I hope that through this investigative commission a number of things will be clarified, which are now so vehemently claimed and in some ways also rapes some responsibility of both Members and some ministers and representatives of government teams, and that this commission will nevertheless answer a number of questions raised in this story. I can say for myself that I support this commission of inquiry, and I can also say once again that I have confirmed the law of guarantee.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u137	Thank you. Mr Matjaž Hanžek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, I'd like to remind myself, to attach to my colleague Krivec, who says it's at least inappropriate to talk about the guilt of politicians on the run. I agree. Which is exactly why we need to have an investigative committee that will be able to tell you later by name if she finds the names, so that we don't talk at all. I'll give you the benefit of the doubt. If I'm ever going to talk like this in general, just stop me and tell me another time. But we know what this is about. First of all, I would like to thank all the speakers, all those who supported the proposal, including the SDS. I have no doubt that they will take part in this investigative committee, because, by the way, we know that in the previous Parliament's call, there have been a great deal of talk on the Committee on Finance and so on, and there are quite a few people in your party who are well placed in this area. That is how I think this work will be very effective and on all sides. Some have also raised some doubts, so I hope that by the end of the Commission all these doubts or most doubts about the usefulness, effectiveness and objectives together will be resolved and that the final result will be of particular benefit in the direction that we will once clearly say and find out how what we are talking about today, about the thefts and so on, about what the kidnapped country is called, and that we will prevent any further, at least most, it is clear that everything will not be prevented. By the way, I'm not gonna respond to having someone in the back. If that's what those who tell me that I have my own professionals in the back, I agree. It's true, for every thing I don't understand, I ask others. And there are a lot of things I don't understand, because the one who says he knows everything really proves he doesn't know anything about anything. Nor will I answer the questions of technology, because technology and technical parameters are not an investigative commission of parliament, but it is a matter of parliamentary commission to investigate why those responsible, both from politicians and from state control institutions, have not convinced themselves that the technical elements that some experts have signed are real. And what has been discussed today has come to the public some week ago and, of course, could not be included in the proposal of the Commission of Inquiry, but of course we will discover and add a lot more, as this is also part of the task of the Commission of Inquiry. It's about as if he asked the judges to understand all things, but because they admit they don't understand each other, they call and hire experts for individual areas to sort them out. But if there is someone in the National Assembly who knows the technical stuff of fumigating steam, of course he is welcome, at least as far as I am concerned, and as I can influence it, to investigate. I've also seen a lot going on. It is not clear what the Parliamentary Commission is doing. The competence of various state institutions is also enhanced. So far, at least as far as we can tell, it's working pretty well. The police found that, I think, 284 million euros, had only gone to the billions they were reviewing, somewhere missing. That means they've already figured out where some money is. Some people have been detained, too, so this criminal part is a matter for the police and the prosecution. We are here to determine political responsibility. What the law requires of us, but there is nothing else we can do. But we're probably going to run into some things sometime, but we're just going to have to leave that to the institutions that are responsible. And not only are they responsible, but they also know how to handle it. By the way, I would have warned you here, even though we can't ask for it, but still. If the police are clearing up criminal matters and the prosecution, if we are to clear up political responsibility, it would also be good to have experts in particular areas think a little bit about the responsibilities of individual experts who have supported certain acts, which, if they have made a mistake, O.K., you are always mistaken if they have not done so in error, but how else should they say so. The underlying problem in this – just forgive me for writing to myself because there were a lot of things. The problem is that we can see something far from being wrong here: Alstom has been punished in the United States with a fine of 800 million for corruption, in investigations in just a few countries due to similar corruption affairs that are also with us, and that is just enough for our investigative commission, especially because such a big project, a billion and a half, cannot just make up some people, and a billion and a half, that the government is then changing its development plans in a way that someone dictates that they have to be accompanied by some building without appropriate documents. Today we have heard several times that there is still no famous NIP 6, which should have been long ago in order to know why — or as a fellow Member said that only one digit was true, but before it was done over the thumb. Sorry, if the biggest Slovenian project is being done over the thumb, then this is very worrying and again there is one more argument that this investigative committee is. And if what the colleague said was true and then they said they had to lower it, and then the next day the real price came back. Sorry, when I was working at home for a dog's ear, I didn't plan things like some people planned for a billion and a half grand project. [[…]] Or that they had to lower the price and so on. These are all things that further prove that this commission is absolutely necessary, because such things are out of the question or at least, I will say, inability to see any authority, is strange. One of the assurances was that TES 6 will not affect other investments in Slovenia – pure fiction! We have already heard today, and TET is very likely to have fallen because of this, and no one there is sorry about a few hundred jobs and so on. All Slovenian energy is complicated in TES 6, not only Slovenian energy, but I think that even after all the data we see – and I hope I am not wrong – the Velenje Mine is written because of TES 6 but not because of the failure of TES 6 to write bad times. I don't think we need to repeat what we've been listening to for two hours and more. Mainly, I – I hope to be one of the members of the commission – most agree, but I would like to draw attention to a few more deceptions. For example, Energy, the newspaper Holding the Slovenian Power Plant, March 2011, writes: "From an economic point of view TES 6 is important at least because it will replace old, non-economic blocks 4 and 5, whose technical life has practically expired. TES 6 will ensure the long-term competitive production of priced electricity" and so on, the then director of HSE mag. Matjaž Janežich. Now we see, and what we're reading from the media right now, we don't know if Block 4 is going to work, or whether even Block 5 is going to work, or whether they're even going to have to have some extra aggregate that's going to preheat the oil. Please, but they didn't know that until now? Since 2004, they've been working and they've been pulling us together to make sure that the investment is over when the thermal power plant starts to work, gentlemen — whoever they are — find that they need something else to make things work. I'm sorry, if they don't know, I don't even understand how long the directors could have been, and then they would have gotten paid to find one of these two million in the bedroom at home, and they don't even know where they came from when I always told you about the 20 euros I got them from. Excuse me, this is something; this is the only thing the police have to investigate, we have to investigate how it is possible that in the country it can happen, that as long as most colleagues or many colleagues have said theft and so on. Next: Block TEŠ 6 is the only strategic energy facility in Slovenia that has energy for electricity production provided for the rest of its life and will not depend on imports. Sorry, a few months ago, very recently in TES they requested the construction of an unloading platform for imported coal and so on. I don't know who's pulling someone's nose. A lie, a lie, a lie that she can, I don't know who believes. Come in. "TEŠ 6, towing horse of Slovenian energy, economy and people" – Sekavčnik, an outstanding professor of university and so on. TER 6 is really a towing horse, but it pulls back. "Thermal power plant Šostjanj, pillar of Slovenian thermoenergy", Prof. Dr. Tuma. I'm not gonna mention names now. And, say, the propaganda blog HSE and TES: "Block 6 is therefore a substitute and not an additional production facility." Now we hear again that 4 and 5 will continue to work. I'm being pulled by the nose? Dr. Matej Lahovnik, then Minister of Economy: "I am often disappointed when I monitor how underestimated they look at this facility in other parts of Slovenia..." – now everyone who is not from the Velenj Valley is addicted –... From the pure local or political prestige they try to portray it as an inherited investment that is harmful to the Slovenian economy......" And so on. All those who said or said that these things needed to be thought of were labeled localists by the Minister of Economic Affairs or what to call them. We're gonna freshen up a little bit more. "The investment in TES 6 is not at risk" – now I am there again – "other energy facilities of the country, but from the point of view of providing the necessary financial resources at national level, it makes sense to start construction as soon as possible. Thus, the new block will be able to operate as soon as possible, allowing savings to be accumulated within the holding group of Slovenian Power Plants for investment in new projects." 50 million losses per year TES 6 will be produced. So if it wasn't, we'd have 50 million more for other objects, and now we're going to have 50 million to cover the loss, plus that almost one billion repayment loans. You know what? For the last time, I could count on my fingers, admit it, or across my fingers, that all the inhabitants of the Shale Valley, if we split this billion and a half, would get at least 10,000 euros a month, and that we could look into the air. I'm sorry. Or start a company. But it's on my fingers, on my finger, but I can afford it. But I would never afford to build on a billion-and-a-half thumb. Two more things. The investment in TES Block 6 is €1.1 billion and without funding costs even €997 million. This is provided in 2010 by Holding Slovenian Power Plants and TEZ 6. And enough of that. Dear Members! I don't think we've said enough today. I don't think I have to explain any more, either, because each one of us who said it added one more pick. We are all convinced that this commission of inquiry is absolutely necessary. I am sure that we are all confident that everyone who works here will do everything we can to prevent further similar activities in Slovenia, but, of course, let other institutions do their job. And we believe they'll do their job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u139	Thank you. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet run out, we have two minutes to go, I ask if anyone wishes to discuss it on the basis of Article 71, paragraph 1. A request has been made. I'm asking you to sign up. I note that there will be no further debate because more debaters have applied for the debate and everyone should have a minute at his disposal. That is why I conclude the debate. Pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, the National Assembly shall not vote on the determination of a parliamentary inquiry. I therefore note that the National Assembly has ordered a parliamentary inquiry to determine the political responsibilities of public function holders in the investment in Block 6 of Thermal Power Plant Šoštanj – hereinafter referred to as the TES Block 6 – in view of the suspicion that the obligation to leave due treatment in relation to the alleged lack of legal basis for the start of the investment in the TES Block 6 by allowing almost two and a half times the price and by adopting the State guarantee without ensuring the financing and profitability of the investment would damage the State interest; because of the suspicion of systematic ignoring the calls of independent experts, most NGOs and civil society and certain policies to suspend the project in a timely manner and to re-check the baseline data and optimise the investment and their reasonable doubts as to the extent that, when accepting the guarantee for credits in the National Assembly, it would allow the European Parliament to exercise its political influence and the abuse of the 31s;17 from the European Parliament; 3. As regards the coordination of public procurement procedures in the water, energy and transport sectors and in the postal services sector or the Law on public procurement in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors, it should not be possible to impose, owing to the suspicion of leaving the duty to act in relation to giving instructions to representatives of the government in the supervisory authorities of the Slovenian Power Plant — under the terms of the HSE — and the TEM to achieve transparent and cost-effective management of the investment in the TES Block 6, by allowing a repetitive overriding of the powers of HSE and TES’s management bodies and by leaving the identification and enforcement of the liability of managers and supervisors; in view of the alleged abandonment of the debt pricing of the Member States in respect of the verification of credible data submitted by the management of the TES and HSE to obtain a public guarantee for the loans of the European Investment Bank — under the scope of the euro envelope — EUR 440 The purpose and scope of the parliamentary inquiry are defined in the Request of the Group of Members and Members for the purpose of determining the parliamentary inquiry, in the record of that request and in the Act on the Designation of the Parliamentary Inquiry which you have received. The parliamentary investigation is therefore determined. In this regard, I ask the Council of State to draw up a proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the Commission of Inquiry in accordance with the content of a specific parliamentary inquiry and to forward it to the National Assembly at the latest at its forthcoming meeting. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the fourth session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 16.55. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u140	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law on measures in the field of traineeships. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on traineeship measures is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group, Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u141	Thank you for your word, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Since we are following our pre-election programme in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have therefore proposed a law abolishing volunteer traineeships. We believe that such work represents modern slavery and therefore is not acceptable. As you know, we have also discussed our proposal at the previous meeting. Since you had quite a few comments, we then took into account the magnetogram of your comments and wrote a new law, which, according to what I heard in the debate today, is obviously promising support. I think today we will send a clear signal to all young people that this will soon be over. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose that, during the traineeship period, employers be exempted from payment of contributions, and in this law we also encourage employers to hire young people for an indefinite period of time, in which case they will be freed from the payment of contributions for another two years. We also urge the Government to prepare a traineeship strategy for the next five years 30 days after the adoption of this Act, and to provide a fuse if it does not make it possible for trainees to start paying on a monthly basis after this period, at the rate of the minimum wage per month. We think the law is good. As you said, some adjustments will probably be needed, but I hope that you will not go into some radical intervention, to some radical change in what we have proposed and which has also received the support of the Slovenian Youth Council, which is the umbrella organisation of some youth associations.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u142	We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 83 votes against none. [[The vote was 83.]] [[No one.]] I note that the decision has been taken by the National Assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of item 2 of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Draft Fiscal Rule Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a fiscal rule law is suitable for further consideration. In doing so, I inform you that, in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 148 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a decision will be adopted if at least two thirds of all Members vote for it, i.e. 60 or more. Explanation of the vote on behalf of SMC Group Ambassador Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Chairman. Hello, colleagues! In the SMC Group, we will of course support the proposal for a fiscal rule law for further consideration. Let us say that, from the current process of consideration and debate, we are pleased to note that the majority in this House, independent of ideological positions, with the exception of colleagues from the United Left, contribute to the search, I would say, compromises, best possible solutions and broad agreement that this law, which is one of the important, fundamental system laws of this country, is also being adopted. This law, in fact the adoption of this law, is understood as the basis for the future management of stable and sustainable fiscal policies in this country and also for the stabilisation, financial and even broader society in this context of the current state in the country. At the same time, we are also aware that the fiscal rule alone will not be enough to require other legal solutions and complementary measures to prevent future financial risks and harmful consequences and, in this regard, to date, often reckless political decisions and actions in the field of financial policy in the country. With a view to our sincere commitment and also confidence for all further processing processes of the Fiscal Rule Bill, we are aware that the widest possible majority of all of us are needed. This is the goal of achieving development, growth for the common good of countries and people. We sincerely believe in this and with this very purpose, together with our coalition partners today, we have also forwarded to all the parliamentary groups that have so far been constructively involved in this process, a statement by the coalition parliamentary groups on the substantive framework for adopting somehow the content of the amendments, which will, of course, be confirmed in future discussions, if this first reading is confirmed, also the basis for the preparation of a harmonised and, as much as possible, consensus on the well-founded proposal for a fiscal rule law. So, votes "for" of the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u144	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group, Mr Janez Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u145	Thank you very much. In our view, the law, as proposed and as discussed in the first reading, is not what the Constitution requires. The law contains in a substantive sense only what is already in force in Slovenia, these are obligations under the Stability and Growth Pact and the Fiscal Compact. However, in these interviews and discussions, and in part in the debate, particularly by the Minister, the willingness was expressed to make this material up to the next reading, and this gives some promise that it is possible to reach a solution that will bring the implementing law closer to the requirements of the Constitution. This is why the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will support the proposal in this reading, counting on the commitments made now in these commitments by the three coalition groups and extending the basis for the preparation of the text in the next reading to ensure that these commitments are respected. We are also counting on some of the assurances made by the Minister of Finance in the morning during the interview to be respected, and we can then, without coming back to the very beginning, save time and thus bring the country closer to a moment when it will no longer be in unconstitutional condition. For today, we are in an unconstitutional state and are of course not worthy of this legislative body, in the light of the provisions required by the constitutional article with the golden fiscal rule. So we are counting on the coalition to keep this promise, which was also signed today and expanded the basis for preparing the text for the second reading, and that the government or minister will also keep his word on some of the commitments he made this morning in the conversation. Under these conditions, we will vote in favour of the law in the first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u146	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Deus Group, Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u147	Thank you so much for saying that. I just have to say at the outset that all ten Members and Members of our Group will vote in favour of proceeding. We are aware that the recovery of the Republic of Slovenia is very urgent as soon as possible. In the case of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we are aware that we must adopt rules to do so that will limit the scope of public expenditure and at the same time the extent of the responsibility for current public consumption. The implementation of the fiscal rule will have positive effects, of course, on the country's credit rating and on the interest rate at which the country will also receive loans. The level of the interest rate at which we owe ourselves is extremely important. Of course, if we owe ourselves more favourably, more money can remain for health care, education and, of course, pensions, it is also said, for the social state. In doing so, I would like to reiterate what I and my fellow Members from the parliamentary group have already put forward in the debate on Wednesday; only the text of the law, together with all the proposed changes that will follow, will be under the watchful eye of all of us. If we see that this debate is otherwise addressed and that we touch too much and very strongly on the social side, then, of course, there will be no further votes on the part of our parliamentary group. I think that those who live on the social side should not be burdened too much by this fiscal rule, because they are already living very hard.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u148	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group United Left Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u149	Mr President, the House of Respect, thank you for the floor. In the United Left, we will vote against the adoption of the fiscal rule for three reasons. The first reason is that we have been monitoring the consequences of harmful fiscal consolidation in Europe for five years both economically and socially. We have economically, say, compared to the United States of America, where this has not been done in this way, 726 billion potentially lost GDP. Socially, we see what fiscal consolidation policies bring, practically destabilizing those remaining middle-class people we have, five million Europeans currently living below the poverty line, and in southern Europe, where things are most acute, it is no longer possible to talk about any social state. In addition, this is another reason: fiscal consolidation does not even solve the basic purpose that it is intended to serve, that is to say, the debt crisis. Indeed, from the start of fiscal consolidation until 2014, according to 2010 to 2014, the total debt of European countries has not decreased, but has increased from EUR 7 000 900 billion earlier to the current EUR 9 000 billion. In short, debt has increased by more than a thousand billion euros in these four years when countries are implementing fiscal consolidation. Of course, the reason is that, as a result of fiscal consolidation, the economy continues to persist in recession, making it relatively more debt-enhancing, while at the same time countries cannot afford to finance all their activities on a regular basis and must be further indebted. And the third thing we are opposed to this fiscal rule is that, despite multiple questions, we have not received a satisfactory answer to what fiscal rule will mean in good years. Indeed, following the simulation issued by the Ministry of Finance, we could, for example, in the years 2001 to 2004, when economic growth in Slovenia was stable, social rights at a relatively good level, but the country had between 2% and 3% of the deficit each year, we should, for example, save EUR 750 million each year, which would be a question: for the first time, if we could still have a social state under such harsh conditions, and for the second time, whether such fiscal policy can guarantee economic growth at all. In short, we cannot support a fiscal rule for reasons that we do not believe that the social state can, under its conditions, stand and believe that it can [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] economic growth, if we accept it. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u150	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Alliance of Mags. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u151	At this stage, we will also support the Fiscal Rule Act in the Alliance, and we will continue to have a process, a well-respected minister, a few more questions, in particular, I will say, more technical in terms of performance, and I hope that we will clear this up. Our fundamental requirement is and remains gradual consolidation and, by no means, at the expense of the social state and even the weakest. But once again, I would like to stress that the fiscal rule, although we may have heard otherwise a little bit earlier, is no fun fun and will bring nothing terrible to people. It simply says that in bad times the country can spend more and help people to do so, but in good times it must not consume everything it creates. I think it sounds perfectly logical and irresponsible to sell to people, how they will write off all our debts once and for all, and continue with the practice of the past. That's really irresponsible. It is also irresponsible to say that we no longer need this fiscal rule at this time because the situation is better than it was two years ago. It's true. It's better. It is not better than itself, a few things and measures needed to be taken. And if we want it to be even better, let's step together and constructively help this country. It is our responsibility and our duty to leave our children a country in good condition, not to tell them the better condition we've been given. Of course, we must not close our eyes so that certain things do not need to be changed and corrected. I do not use the word "reform" on purpose, especially because of those who come after us. With good economic foundations, managed public finances and excellent public services, we will do the most for our people. And this will be the best trip for young people. With these three things, we will recapitalize young people in the best way and ensure safe age for the elderly. I'm the first to sign under petition that it's time to recapitalize people. But not with empty promises and fairy tales, but with concrete actions and actions. However, the result of these measures must be better Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u152	Explanation of the vote on behalf of New Slovenia - Christian Democrats Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u153	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister Dr. Marble, distinguished colleague and colleague! The New Slovenia Group will be given four votes for the decision, not for the law – to conclude that the proposed text is a suitable basis for it to become a good, quality fiscal rule by taking into account all that the coalition knows and all that the opposition knows and wants. New Slovenia has worked constructively and has also supported the amendment of Article 148 of the Constitution, but, ladies and gentlemen, this was only a first and a small step towards a long-term objective, namely, a balanced budget of consolidated public finances. But there's something I'd like to say here. The necessary condition for the consolidation of public finances is a consolidated coalition. Today we have not heard clear articulations that the coalition is truly, sincerely and heartily prepared to lead to the end of this law and that it actually listens to the demands of us, by the opposition. We've come to grips with the minister or the government so much that we understand that he needs some flexibility at the time of the recession. But since we are a conservative party, this is how we view, conservatively, even on public finances, the country's budget. Therefore, in good times, at a time of conjuncture, we really want to prevent the text for which we want it to be enshrined in this fiscal rule law in order to prevent the temptations of politics after excessive spending. At a time when good years are good, we need to think that everything is cyclical — that's what Plato said, it's all cyclical — and for good years come bad and good for bad. And when the years are good, we must prepare for the crisis. Therefore, we want to make it clear that, for economic growth years, we will put in the law a proven Swiss formula. This will not be any destabilisation, this will not contribute to the non-social state; on the contrary, a balanced budget, consolidated public finances, this is a guarantee, this is a guarantee for the social state, and in the long term. Why did Cankar's mother pick up all the pears in a good fruity summer? She didn't let the kids eat everything, but she dried it up and then gave it to the kids in the winter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u154	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SD Group, Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The Fiscal Rule Act, ladies and gentlemen, is not the law of the coalition, it is not the law of the opposition, but it is the law of responsible political parties who look to the future. I am sorry that the United Left did not join us at this first stage, I am speaking on the side of the Social Democrats, because this Social Democratic Left Block would be stronger. In doing so, we are confident that we will sincerely fight for this fiscal rule law: for the first time, adopted, and for the second time, that it will be adopted so as not to endanger the social state. The easiest thing to do today is sit on a chair, there's only six of us, lean back and say we don't support it. Then we could risk the Social Democrats adopting this fiscal rule without our six votes in such a way that we would then really endanger the social state, because, as we have already seen, we are different and have different views. However, as long as we are Social Democrats, the language on the scale of a vote in such an important law, we will not give up. However, we have a sincere intention to adopt a law in favour of citizens and citizens that will enable future generations in Slovenia to live a better life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u156	Since I have seen that interest is also in the individual explanation of vote, please apply. Explanation of Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u157	Thank you for your word. I don't have much time. First, what colleague Alenka Bratušek knows is my 85-year-old great-grandmother, and she didn't have to read it in the constitution. Secondly, the fiscal law with the Swiss formula will not work for you. In bad years it will not work because Parliament will be able to burn, but in good years Luka has explained why it is not good that it somehow works. I'm sorry the conservative party isn't against it. After all, they come from Christian democracy, and debt was discussed and written, and preachers spoke in the 14th and 15th centuries. I will also vote against it, and I will mention at least the books translated into Slovenian, Long, Creation of an Indebted Man, the Long 20th Century. Two of them are really fat. Read them. From all this debate somehow turns out that the United Left is some ugly duck and so on. A united left thinks; I hope others think too. But I will conclude with this, my fellow executive says we will all tighten our belts. The lady, who has 530 euros in wages and works in this House, asked me, "Well, where else is marble going to take anything from me? And from where?" Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u158	Explanation of the vote, Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u159	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Why the implementing law on fiscal rules? Because of the fact that we will actually commit ourselves, even in the National Assembly, that we can spend as much as we create and that today we do not have a fiscal rule or in the implementing law, respected Mr Trček and the United Left, the result is that we are paying a billion EUR 100 million interest at an annual level, instead of spending that money on investment, education, health care, that it is almost as much as we are paying from the pension budget and that we are in debt of 80% of gross domestic product. This is in short because we do not have balanced public finances. The proposal that we are voting on today would certainly not have received my support or support from the New Slovenia Group of Members, as my colleague Horvat has said in the introduction, but we will give him the opportunity and somehow agree to a letter, as well as an agreement by coalition parties, to include the formula in the article of this implementing law. What we've been saying all along. But after all, it's during the crisis. For the time when we have plenty of grain coming into our bowl, it is only right to make sure that the grain remains in this bowl for a terrible time. That is why we will also propose in the second reading that we commit ourselves to balanced public finances, so that we do not share candy when we have the money. To make a commitment to this saving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u160	Please, please, please! I didn't give anyone a word, now I'm talking. Explanation of the voice of the Magi. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u161	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, Minister! I will support the fiscal rule law because I think it gives perspective at this point; it gives perspective to people, especially young people here, and it gives perspective to the whole nation to develop into responsible society. In a responsible society in the sense that it will spend as much as it generates and that it will not leave behind debts to future generations. Unfortunately, the situation today is different, and I think it is our mission, as well as our mission, to give future generations a better future without debts, and I believe that this law indirectly ensures this. It ensures that, on the one hand, it will limit over-expenditure, in particular by limiting the use of credit, on the basis of loans requiring payment of interest to lenders. I expect the Government and the Minister of Finance to prepare the next reading of the law quickly, so that we will not wait long for a longer procedure to be hidden behind this law, and that we will be able to participate constructively in defining the provisions in the next legislative procedure and, of course, for the benefit of all of us, but in particular for the benefit of future generations.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u162	Any other explanation for the voice? I'm asking you to sign up. Explanation of Miha Kordish's voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u163	Yeah, thank you so much for saying that. Of course, I will not support the proposed law, the implementing law on the fiscal rule, because it is short on political economic suicide. But I would like to point out here another point that needs to be very well aware here. The discussion was about policy unity, how this is combined in this large fiscal rule. Upstairs! Woe to the people when the policy that has given us 120 000 unemployed has been brought together, which has made us tycoons who have taken care of growing poverty, growing penetrating jobs and a decline in the quality of public services. Woe to the nation, when such a policy is united and it advocates about common positions, this means something very very bad for the vast majority of the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u164	Explanation of the vote, Mr Matjaž German.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u165	Thank you very much, President, for your word. It rarely happens that in such a large majority and number we are somehow united in order to find the right way to achieve common goals. In Slovenian politics this is not a custom, but we are aware of the situation in which we are in, and regardless of, I will say, personal concerns or client concerns, it is a clear intention to look for some common solutions. Almost a clear intention, for we could be in the big or the whole, but unfortunately we are only in the vast majority. I'm going to turn left as a moderate leftist, as a social democrat, to mention some of my regrets, because we could be in a much better position, as far as our view of the problem is concerned. Why do I say that? Because, unfortunately, our brothers do not want to join us in the struggle for a social state, as we see it or as we are supposed to see it together. Indeed, the policy of compromises is present in the National Assembly. We all give up, I'll tell our ideologies, to find a common way for all Slovenes, and if one of the political parties had a 60 percent or a three-quarters majority, we could change the constitution, we could change the laws, including those that are two-thirds. Unfortunately, this is impossible and therefore compromises are needed. I would like more social states, but we will not be able to do this alone, so it is also the responsibility of our brothers and sisters that there is no more social component within the fiscal rule. We will fight for the social state, even if we are alone in this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u166	Explanation of Luka Mesec's voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u167	Thank you for your word. I'll be brief. I have not mentioned three more reasons why I will vote against it. For the first time because the country is not a household, not a house, not a farm, and whatever else we hear from the advocates, but you will not believe it, it is a state. Because, secondly, it's time for the one who [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u168	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u169	advocates that the time for us to stop spending more than we have produced starts to distinguish between the budget and the balance of payments of the country; and because the fiscal rule for future generations for which you are so concerned will be taken away from the apartment, jobs and the social state and because we do not allow them to do so, and because we are a responsible party, we will be quick to make this harmful action, we will show him a red light, instead of voting "for" as some of the more responsible in this House, in the hope that something good will be done. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u170	Explanation of Violet Tomić's voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u171	Thank you for your word. First of all, let me answer Mr German, I have no brother and no sister in this House. That is why we, from the United Left, will not participate in this political and economic suicide. Not because we would be irresponsible, but because we are interested in how many centuries we will squander so that future generations can be assured of the future. Let me refer to the ideologist of capitalism, so you won't say we're just advocating socialist theories. Ford said his employee has to make enough money to buy the car he's making, and he has to have enough money to go anywhere with that car, full tank, and he's just as free. So capitalism, neither capital nor man, is operating according to your fiscal rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u172	We have another round of explanations for the voice, so please apply. Explanation of Dr. Franz the Crusader.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The great English historian Eric Hobsbawm, in his book The Short 20th Century, not long ago, defined the origin of the social state after World War II — just from the antifascist coalition. The fiscal rule is part of the functioning of the social state in the modern world; during the recession we have a deficit; during the period of the conjuncture we need to accumulate to replace this deficit. We live in a monetary union where we are not prepared to lend us our permanent deficits and therefore, as partners, we must also manage properly. I am in favour of this law, it is laid down in a highly Keynesian manner, and if we supported it in a wider circle, of course, it would remain this Keynesian, maybe it will get more monetary moves in a later period.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u174	Explanation of Mr Franz Jurša's vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u175	Thank you for your word, President. Yes, and I think that we should also think about the CAP in this matter - a healthy farm. You can spar when it's a good season, when you pick up more fruit, and then you have a backup for the next few years. But now I want to get back to the point, to what we are defending and what I said earlier on behalf of the Group of Members, that we will keep a close eye on the whole thing, that there will be no hackers inside this, who will have a negative impact on the original population, but at this point and now have nothing to do, and even in the future, when there is a normal situation, we will no longer be in the crisis, because it has such low income that it simply cannot make a reservation. For these, we will fight another way within our parliamentary group and, of course, I am sure that we will find a positive interest with our coalition partners as well as with opposition parties. I didn't say how to vote. For it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote by Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u177	I will also vote in favour of this law for further consideration, because this direction is also the one I am trying to implement in my life. All the time, I realize that as long as I can work, I will take care of myself and my family with my work. I never expected my debts or my questions to be paid by others. That is why I think it is right that this is also the case with state finances. Of course, all the time I am aware that in our society, people who cannot take care of themselves for certain reasons and those who are right for the state to take care and that pensions are not the best in the country, but I am also aware that later generations will also need social assistance and will need pensions. In order to be a social state and have pensions in later years, we must now do something. Therefore, I am pleased that we have basically united ourselves in this spirit, that we are going in this direction of balancing our budget forward and that I do not understand those who say that we will easily write off debts to others because they will continue to spend and spend and are not prepared to pay back what they have spent excessively. That's why I'm going to vote yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u178	Explanation of the vote, Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Sometimes I do not advertise in some of the debates of fellow Members and Members because I think that every advertisement is irrelevant, but because we are somewhere at some point in this session, where readings are going, where there are some values, there are some experiences, I would suggest that when we talk about books, at least most of our colleagues from the United Left or even the Social Democrats read the book The Way to Fall, Kaiser, where at the beginning of this book is talking about the famous Franklin River, where it says that the path to wealth is only through modesty and entrepreneurship. And at least those who advocate a conservative liberal economic policy, I reiterate, conservatively, we are aware of this. I think your colleague's shirt today, where it shows up proudly, Che Guevara, is talking about it. The people who were or were in Cuba can see what the path to failure means. 40 years of constant reform, something that we can say is not about a system that has never proved itself, shows today: a broken one of the very beautiful cities in a million-dollar town where we can count the Internet owners and doctors who have less than 20 euros in wages per hand. This is the story, the path to failure. Where there is no austerity policy, because at $20 a month there is no saving, and I believe that somehow you understand saving. But here is the interesting thing: that Slovenia is really specific: here the German explains that with the United Left they are brothers. It's just that I understand the Germans differently. [[…]] Let this be a bit of humor, irony in this situation, and I hope that you will also read this book somehow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u180	How will you vote?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u181	I think you already know my answer in advance that I will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u182	Yeah, I know, but you have to say it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u183	I think I've been a supporter of the fiscal rule since the beginning, and I'm going to back it up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Is it still [[…]] Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u185	I also read that book, my colleague was quoting the wrong book, I'm talking about the book Long 20th Century Giovanni Arrighi with subtitle Capitalism, money and power. You advocate capitalism, you talk about money, the National Assembly has power, every student of mine has to read it, you will also learn how costs are externalized in the global economy – a colleague would probably be the only one here to answer this parliamentary question from all of you present. It's the foundations of capitalism and then maybe we could understand the debt a little bit better, but maybe me and my colleague Franca, who are both such fine charmers, made the same postman. Thank you. I'm sorry, I know.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u186	Not only did you realize that you were being abused, but I am also giving you a warning about the abuse of procedure. Now I think it's time to vote. I therefore ask that you re-check the functioning of the voting apparatus and we vote. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 79 votes against 5. [[The vote was 79.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the National Assembly has adopted a decision and that the draft law will therefore be allocated for consideration by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda – first consideration of the draft law on changes and additions to the Act on Vocational and Professional Education. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education is appropriate for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u187	Thank you, President, for your word. As already announced, we will be supporting the draft law at first reading as the proponents of the SDS Group. We hoped and expected the coalition members in particular to follow what they had said before about regulating traineeships. However, despite the constructive debate, I am most afraid of the government's opinion, which was obviously not active enough in this task. The Minister didn't even know that there were European funds and so on, and she didn't even know what the arguments against the law before us were. In short, in the SDS Group we will support the law because we believe that it is good for craftsmen, for the economy, for young people and for the better education system in the Republic of Slovenia, because with this dual education system, as proposed in this law, we would follow the successful European practices of the education system, which we can only dream at present, and unfortunately we do not implement in practice That is why in the SDS Group we will support this law and hope that we will all give our consent together for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u188	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Desus Group, Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u189	Thank you for your word, President. I must say that in our parliamentary group we do not reject the proposed law. It is true, however, that certain matters were not previously realized before a proposal was put forward for consideration by the National Assembly. I think that, above all, things need to be settled with the social partners here. Of course, in any case, it is a matter of money that the State must provide in accordance with the proposal of the law you have drawn up. But this isn't easy right now, it's not easy. For this reason, I propose that we discuss this matter thoroughly with the Ministry or the Government to draw up a new proposal where these matters will be agreed upon. Now, this does not mean a bad thing if we reject this law and say that this matter should be prepared at the government or at the ministry. Not because it is you, because you always say in the SDS that we reject the proposals because the proponent is your party or the parliamentary group. In this case, I do not think in any way, so I propose that these matters be thoroughly reviewed and that a law be drawn up with all these proposals and grounds.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u190	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u191	Thank you for your word. The New Slovenia Group will support the proposed law. But since I listened yesterday, and even today, when you say, we all know that some changes in this area need to be made, that there is a need to somehow regulate apprenticeship and a greater link between the economy and the education system, and I just miss something — but when will this be on the tables? I think we've all been listening too long to'must', 'we'll', 'we're all aware of this', but the action plan, until when, the deadline to commit ourselves to doing this by September, that this will apply as early as 2016, and that, unfortunately, is not. And I miss that. As I said, the New Slovenia Group supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u192	In your own name? O.K., if there's an explanation for the vote in his own name, I'd like to ask you to sign up. Explanation of the vote, Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u193	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I hope that two days ago I was somehow trying to explain to you from some practical point of view how we represent in the Slovenian Democratic Party the so-called implementation of the dual school system in Slovenia. I've been explaining the past, explaining the practices that Western democracies have, which I have somehow learned myself. See, respected colleagues and colleagues, masters in every field in the butchery, quarrying, masters candidates or masters of the professions in the massacre, today you can meet them, go to every church, see the inscriptions or masterpieces that were made a hundred years ago. Every serious country takes the dual school system very seriously. Austria is an example where youth unemployment is the lowest in Europe. I think this system has proved to be the most welcome. Somehow those of you who defend, as I said two days ago, the rights of the elderly or at least speak of being the only advocates of the rights of the elderly or the pensioners. Look, people who are already in the dual school system at 16 are the most welcome for the social, i.e. for the pension register, as well as for the health department. Dear colleagues and colleagues, as I have said, I will vote for myself, and I also ask you somehow to decide to bring this law through the procedure, because I think something will be really good for young people too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u194	Explanation of Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u195	Thank you for your word. I thought we were already voting. When I listened to a fellow sophomore, it is likely that this law will have to be given a guardian so that in the end we will not end up going to apprenticeship for ten years, but pay the tax; but a joke aside. If we're being a little serious, it seems strange to me that I'm the only one who seems to think a little too much about the economy and the economy here. I'm missing a necklace here. We need economic policy, I'll repeat myself, a system of smart specialisation. This thought, perhaps also agreed with a colleague who has extensive international experience, and then only after a good consideration of some implementing laws. Because otherwise, I think it'll be another stunt. Because of this kind of warning, because I'm from the United Left, because I'm thinking perplexity, I'm going to vote "against." However, I would be very happy if in the second reading I could overstretch this materially. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u196	Explanation of the vote, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u197	Thank you. I myself will vote in favour of the law going forward, especially because we have announced that once we have gone through the first reading, we would also propose a public presentation of opinions where all the social partners could be asked to speak on this law. The government itself has already said that it is negotiating and discussing with the social partners how to address the issue of apprenticeship properly. I will vote in favour," because, at the end of three and a half hours of debate, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Education only managed so much courage that she said that European funds existed and that they could be earmarked for these funds. Thus, we can adopt the procedure slowly and by 2016, as well as the proposal of the law, we can make the law life-saving and useful. Above all, I will vote in favour, because in recent years we have been talking a lot about young people, about trade, about the economy, about the education system, but above all we are talking about. But when we have some basis for some solid law that we can do even better through the legislative procedure, most people suddenly press the "against" button. I think we need to get real once and look at the law and not press the "against" button because of some of the demogo bubbles. I will press the "yes" button myself, because all the reasons why marriage can go into further procedure are fulfilled.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u198	Micah Kordish has an explanation of his voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u199	Thank you so much for saying that. The proposed changes in vocational and professional education brought to the table by the far right will, of course, not be supported in the United Left. There are two or two underlying reasons. Firstly, since the proposal foresees subsidising private profits for the training of the labour force, from which the capital is already draining, it sucks the excess value, and employers here are briefly putting themselves in the position, rejecting the principle of some fair payment for honest work. That's the first reason we won't support this in the United Left. The second reason is complementary. Training for a specific work process is not part of public education. Practical knowledge in this vertical of public education is certainly necessary, and something else is training for a concrete work process. Here we are not talking anymore about cooperation between education and the economy, but we are talking about subordinated public education to some private profit or capital, which, of course, is accumulated by managers and owners of production funds. This is, if we remain within the horizon of capitalism, only some additional verticals of public education can be added. What students need is education, not training in how to become a submissive workforce for some particular production process. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u200	Before I give the floor forward, I must first conclude that there is no extreme right in this House and there is no extreme left in this House. [[Applause]] There is also no extreme left in this House. The extreme left is always outside Parliament. So I ask that these bets stop and are spoken in any other way, especially because someone feels offended. And it can be a hate speech and I want this debate to be cultural, we can talk about different shades of conservativeism, but I really can't see the extreme right. But I see it elsewhere in Europe. Gradually, Luca Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u201	Thank you for your word. 39. Article 39 of the Constitution, which speaks of freedom of expression, is clear. Freedom of expression, speech and public expression shall be guaranteed. Members can also practice this. Now, if I may just, see, in the United Left we have very serious reasons why we call a particular party in this House, we call the extreme right. But since this is procedural and not substantive debate, I will not distribute it widely here, but I will just say that, among other things, this party this week, in the case of a certain journalist, has shown what it does to Article 39 of the Constitution, which is already one of the smaller reasons why we have the legitimate right to call such a policy extremes. But I'm not going to quote others in this place, but on a more appropriate occasion.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u202	Luka Moon, I'm warning you that you violated or abused procedure, so I'm giving you a reminder. We continue with the explanations of vote. Mr Jan Mahnic has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u203	Thank you, President. Colleagues and colleagues! I will myself vote in favour of the law that we have drawn up in the Slovenian Democratic Party on the basis of our pre-election programme. Alone, when I talk to economists when I walk in the field, they say that young people come from school professionally well-trained and the problem is practice. For this reason, we believe that the dual school system would solve a number of problems in this area. I would have versed young people at the time of their education in order to get used to a specific working environment, in order to get to know certain work processes in practice as well. And if the employer of such a young person with his employees would get into some kind of circle to give him certain skills in order to become part of the collective, we think that a lot of young people would get a job on this account, and especially on this account. As I said earlier this morning, we saw, for example, the Universities in Nova Gorica, how it works, where 70% is based on research activities, there are professors and their students working largely in practice at the time of the study. And what happens? They sell their knowledge on the market, cooperate with various companies and thus find funding for their funding. But most importantly, 90% of students at the University of Nova Gorica then get a job within 12 months of graduation. For these reasons, and because I know that there was also a coalition agreement, if today does not go through, I hope that you will address this issue as soon as possible to get a dual school system, I will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u204	Is it procedural? We're at the point of explanation of vote. The only possible thing is that you have procedural issues. I hope it's not a procedural abuse because I'm going to have to give you a second warning. Is it procedural or not? Okay, you'll check to see if it's procedural. Okay. Dr. Duck has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u205	I am sorry, but I may be a little stupid, but I would like a little more logic in this House. We are talking about the Vocational and Vocational Education Act and colleague Mahnic was talking about the case of university education. Do you understand? What are we talking about here? I'm sorry, it's probably not procedural or it is. I don't know.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u206	It's procedural, you haven't abused the procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u207	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u208	I will first resolve this procedural issue before anyone else continues. What you have seen so far is now a very broad understanding of what this explanation of voice is. Any intervention in this shall trigger another ten unnecessary explanations of vote. In this context, there was nothing wrong with what colleague Mahnic said, because he said the minimum how he would vote. And at least that's what's expected in case of an explanation of vote. However, I strongly agree that it would be good for us to be careful from now on that the explanations of vote are just what the vote is about. Procedural. I hope it's not a procedural abuse.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u209	Mr President, I will wrap it up so that it is procedural. I suggest that you explain to my colleague Trčku that I know what professional and vocational education is, that I just wanted to give an example of how we can connect practice and theory and how it works on employment. Not only in college, I know it doesn't fit here, but it would also work on the expert. My procedural proposal is to explain this to him.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u210	Well, here the new Members can learn from the old how to make a procedural proposal, even though it is an abuse of the procedural proposal. I certainly reject your procedural proposal and will not explain it to him. Please calm down in the hall. We have another round of explanation for the voice. I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs Ludmila Novak has an explanation for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u211	I will support this law and I am pleased that colleague Lisec has proposed this to the National Assembly because I think we are responding too slowly to the needs of time. Even though this law may not be adopted now, I hope that, however, the Minister will speed up the adoption of a new law, which will also allow the establishment of a dual system or more practical learning. Although capitalism, like democracy, is not ideal systems, but they say they haven't invented better ones yet. And where knowledge is transferred from capitalists, craftsmen, entrepreneurs to younger generations, it is of great value. However, both parties must be interested in this. So that craftsman, who has a lot of knowledge, is motivated to transfer knowledge to a younger one, that is to say to a student, to an apprentice, so to an apprentice, who wants to use that knowledge in his life. I am convinced that good knowledge, good school, good transfer of the skills of older people to younger ones can also enable us to be more self-employed, we have more knowledge and then we have more success in life. In this respect, I think we must continue to work on the future adoption of legislation. However, I am glad that this topic was raised here in Parliament, because most of the parties, in fact, the majority of the debaters also stressed that there is not enough of this practical knowledge, that we have also been working wrongly in these years when most of the generation went to high school and less to vocational education, so there is also a structural deficit in the field of professions.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u212	Mr Joseph Horvat has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u213	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I make it very clear, as I have indicated in the debate, that I will support the amendment of the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education. This is absolutely necessary and I would expect, I would really expect this amendment of the law to come to the National Assembly of the Government. The government has a large team, political groups in the National Assembly have only a handful of professional staff. But still, this is about the opposition proposal of the law. In this session we have some very strange situation, perhaps historically, record that virtually very, very little or almost nothing government laws. But here's the thing. Look, we also have a lot of mechanisms for young people at the European Union level. Of course, we must have been all in the time before the elections, when we were doing the election programme, asking questions and saying, as is the case with the young world today. In Novi Slovenije we wondered – what are the answers to? That's the problem. That is why we have become so involved and focused on the economic agenda, a new economic policy that we should urgently adopt in this country if we want our young families to have a good perspective. We have an alliance for apprenticeship. The Germans have told us here, or the whole European Union, that they want to help us. We have a guarantee for the young. There are a lot of these mechanisms, and we will probably have to ask the Government periodically on individual committees what is happening on these European mechanisms at home in Slovenia. To push the government in such a way that it actually gives something away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u214	Mrs Irena Kotnik has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u215	Thank you for your word. I will not support the new law because I believe that the amendments to the law should also be in line with labour legislation. I also believe that in order for the apprenticeship system to work successfully, we need a broad consensus with civil society stakeholders. The conditions for public funding must also be met. I advocate, however, for changes in vocational and professional education mainly from the point of view of the link between theory and practice. Given that we have heard many debates, I am sure that everyone here in this Chamber wants to make a difference in this area. And I am also sure that it will not take long for this to happen as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u216	We have ended with explanations of vote and we can vote. We're starting the vote. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 24 votes against and 59 votes against. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 59.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the suspension of the 13th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on Amendments and Supplements to the Decision on the Establishment and Tasks of the Working Bodies of the National Assembly. Since no amendments have been tabled to the motion for a decree, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present. There was 83 votes in favour, but he was not single. [[The vote was 83.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interruption of the 15th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Recommendation on Banka Slovenije's activities with regard to the rehabilitation of the banking system. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy has proposed to the National Assembly a further proposal for a decision which has not been tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home working body would make the proposal inconsistent. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the SDS Group shall be mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u217	Mr President, thank you for the floor. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal for recommendations on Banka Slovenije's activities regarding the resolution of the banking system. Slovenia is the only one of the transition countries that has had to rehabilitate the banking system for the second time at the expense of taxpayers. The last recovery has already cost us five billion euros, and we expect these costs to be even higher. And it is right that the National Assembly is familiar with additional materials and additional explanations from Banka Slovenije. I am pleased that the majority of the parliamentary groups expressed their support for this recommendation. However, I expect that in the next debate to be held by the National Assembly, he will pay more attention to the main reasons not only for the consequences of the bank hole.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u218	The United Left shall have an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u219	Thank you for your word. We will always vote in accordance with the Constitution on our own conscience, but we are somehow abstaining from these recommendations. Why, for a long time we have reasoned Of course such debates are necessary, but, look, Banka Slovenije let the National Assembly inform in thirty days about the causes of the capital deficit in banks and the role of Banka Slovenije in this. The macroeconomic causes are known, the representatives of the Bank of Slovenia have already explained this to us. Furthermore, the Bank of Slovenia report on, I quote, "the effectiveness of the corporate governance system of state-owned banks". Their views are clear, they've already been told. "The way of resolving the capital imbalance of banks is expected." We are talking about these fifty - fifty million, and we have already been told how this will be resolved. In short, there will be no concrete bad practices and those responsible for them under this Recommendation. So I'm just going to read what I said at the time: "That's why it would be necessary to have a forensic audit or a criminal investigation into the responsibility of politicians...", although someone claims that there are four mandates here and that there is nothing to blame, "state officials, managers of para-state funds, state-owned companies, banks." This recommendation will only be one recommendation in a series, which will not tell us anything new, so I will be able to stand alone and probably most of the other comrades and comrades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u220	Mr Jožef Horvat has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u221	Thank you, Mr. President. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will, of course, vote in favour of recommendations on Banka Slovenije's activities regarding the resolution of the banking system. The rehabilitation of the banking system, in December 2013, was a very serious operation for taxpayers in this country. We know that the bank hole was created by the incompetence of management authorities, perhaps because of political influences or other, perhaps even criminal acts. That's what's gonna happen. Therefore, it is necessary, colleagues and colleagues, to give the bank hole the name and surname of the drills of the bank hole a name and surname. We can't just wave our hand and walk by because that's what our taxpayers who stop us on the sidewalks are asking us to come to our offices and say, "Take those who took us." And that's our job. That's what they tell the Members. It's interesting that they don't go to state banks, but that's what they tell us. There were also many small shareholders. And here I would also like to draw attention to Article 33 of the Law on measures to strengthen the stability of banks, which I have discussed today in broad terms or yesterday, and this Article 33 of the ZUKSB is actually a very strong member and requires the Management Board of the Banks Claims Management Company to actually, to put it simply, find drilling holes in the bank. We do not see these names for once today, but it has been quite some time since this law was enacted. It is therefore essential that the National Assembly be informed of the Bank of Slovenia report and that we insist on measures and actually intensify and pressure in some way on all those responsible for detecting and sanctioning bank hole drills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u222	Mr Uroš Prikl has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u223	Thank you very much, President. First of all, I don't forget. Of course, we will support the recommendations in the Desus Group in the belief that the causes need to be found, the consequences we have already felt and felt, the causes need to be found, defined and held accountable by those responsible. This is the duty of all citizens and citizens of this country, and not least it is one of the legal states' demands if you wish. We would like banks to become what they are actually meant to serve physically and serve legal persons, i.e. companies. However, whether we sell them or not, of course, I don't want to sell them all on average and at all costs, but let's not go to recapitalisation, to cover our deficits, to throw money into the bottomless pit, but to spend this money on social, public health, public education and all those who also need money. I think that we are obliged to do so in the interest of the banking sector in particular to live and to carry out its original mission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u224	So we can vote. We're starting the vote. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 14th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Recommendation on the Management of State Property in the Company for the Management of Claims of Bank d.d. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposed to the National Assembly a supplementary proposal for a decision on which no amendments had been tabled. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home working body have made the proposal inconsistent. The explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members shall be mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u225	Mr President, thank you for saying so. The result of poor management and a bank hole is the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. We also assess here and we are confident in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the National Assembly needs to be informed of additional clarifications and additional materials. In particular, by additional clarifications concerning the transfer of claims by methodology. However, we are convinced in the Slovenian Democratic Party that it is very important that the National Assembly is also familiar with the annual report and the 2015 business and financial plan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u226	An explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats is given by Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u227	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will support the proposal. Above all, we want to hear a clear problem, namely the valuation of the transferred claims to the bad bank as regards the price and even when all claims will not last be transferred. It is also necessary to define, and it is also right for the National Assembly to hear, with regard to actual responsibilities at a bad bank. We have received various reports from the KPK, which have also been written in the media, as well as by the Court of Auditors. In Slovenia, we have established a bad bank comparable to that abroad, with one big flaw that abroad, where the problems of the banking system can be even greater than in Slovenia, the so-called bad bank is also in private capital. You know, where private capital, where it's not just state capital, there's an interest to sell, to get as much out of it as possible, so much. We will certainly be interested only in the valuation of the transferred claims and will therefore support the recommendations.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u228	Mr Uroš Prikl has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u229	Thank you very much, President. Of course, we will also support these recommendations in Desus unanimously. Not only does it make sense to us, but it is also essential that such recommendations regarding the management of state property in so-called bad banks be supported. We have always been in Desus, and of course we will be in favour of a transparent, efficient and cost-effective principle of business, governance in all areas. It is right that the National Assembly is familiar with the methodology for calculating the value of assets or assets transferred to the DUTB in order to know this matter, so that we can also monitor it and, of course, monitor it. It seems to us that, even though it is written in the law, we should familiarise ourselves with the reports, the ones behind us, and even more importantly with the planned activities that the DUTB has in the coming year. Finally, all these things are recorded in our program. Now I would be working in this place, I think, a precedent and some kind of ad, but it doesn't have to work for Desus' program because he's clear and transparent. As it is said, it is written in Desus' program, also in the coalition contract. And it is also right that this is confirmed by the conclusion of such a recommendation in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u230	An explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors shall be given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u231	Thank you. With the aim of such recommendations, we agree to explore the business of the DUTB, which is extremely problematic. But we don't agree with the way it is. Firstly, it was problematic that these recommendations that we adopted yesterday were of no practical value, since the law obliges DURB to publish a public, say, financial plan.A business report can also be obtained without the State Assembly imposing it. We therefore estimate that the four hours we spent yesterday in this debate have been lost. The recommendations we've accepted are, if I quote Jozet Tank, "radically lame." What we would suggest is to impose a more acute, concrete, integrated revision of the DUTB. For this reason, we will not object, but we will abstain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u232	Apparently, we also have individual explanations for the vote, so I'm asking you to apply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u233	Thank you for your word. Derived from [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u234	Wait, please. I have to give my word. Explanation of vote, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u235	I'm sorry, President, I'm a little hectic today. Thank you for your word. I will not vote like the true leader of the Group of Members, I will take advantage of the right that I have after the constitution. I will vote against it for one very simple reason, because it is a bad bank like a parallel universe, about which we do not have any crazy information, what it does. It seems to me that we need not recommend that we need to change the bad bank law, because otherwise it will be such a shadow page of the month named Slovenia, through which the next round of privatisation will revolve. I come from Maribor, I live there for eight years, and when I look at transfers to a bad bank, when I look at discounts, how much these transfers were discounted, I can start writing names for you, and I can even say a little bit in advance who's nice, sometimes in JNA we said, "extended" and who might go in again. For this reason, it would be against – colleague Simona is absent, I would like some dramalet here principles, irresponsible, irresponsible, irresistible and so forth, so I must vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u236	We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 78 votes against 2. [[The vote was 78.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to seven. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the United States of America on cooperation in defence and military matters. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to a member, Mr Simon Zajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u237	Thank you for your word. The Committee on Foreign Policy shall meet at its 13th session. 1. 2015, discussed the proposal for a law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the United States of America on cooperation in the defence and military field submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. In its consideration, the Committee took into account the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects and had no comments on the text of the bill. Additional explanation was given by the State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence Miloš Bizjak. He said that, in 1995, the signed Memorandum on Cooperation in Defence and Military Relations between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Defence of the United States of America, which had been in force so far, did not provide sufficient legal basis for cooperation and that the new proposal for an agreement regulated it. The opinion of the Commission of the State Council on International Relations and European Affairs, which supported the bill, was presented by the President of the Commission, Dr Janvit Golob. The debate was debated by the opposition Member on the participation of the Republic of Slovenia with other countries in the military and defence field. The question was also raised as to whether any regulatory changes would be necessary at the time of the entry into force of the said Agreement, which the Secretary of State denied and explained that any necessary changes would be covered by the annual plans envisaged by the agreement. As no amendment has been adopted to the draft law on the home working body, the Committee on Foreign Policy proposes that the draft Law on the ratification of an agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the United States of America on cooperation in the defence and military fields be adopted in the text submitted.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u238	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the SMC Group, Mr Simon Zajc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u239	Thanks again. The United States has long been one of the key allies and partners of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of security, defence and military action. The decades of political cooperation in these areas were followed by the independence of Slovenia and the cooperation of the armies of both countries, and in 2004 the partnership was further deepened by our country's entry into the North Atlantic Treaty. Slovenian-American cooperation in security policies is aimed at strengthening joint activities, improving bilateral military relations and increasing the interoperability of Slovenian and American armed forces. Cooperation, which has been ongoing since 1993, has been built on three pillars of activities: equipment, training and education and information exchange. Some particularly successful elements of cooperation, such as International Military Education and Training Property, Foreign Military Sales and Foreign Military Financing, are to be highlighted, through which Slovenia received 27 million dollars of assistance between 1996 and 2010 to modernise our armed forces. The participation of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the National Guards in Colorado in the framework of the state partnership programme with the United States and could also be listed. Good bilateral relations are, last but not least, one of the reasons for the very good participation of Slovenian and American armed forces in multilateral peace operations. Kfor in Kosovo and Isaf in Afghanistan are two eloquent examples of this. Defence and military cooperation between the countries so far took place on the basis of a memorandum signed by the Republic of Slovenia and the United States in 1995 and carried out under the auspices of the defence ministers of the two countries. Since this memorandum does not have the status of an international treaty, there has been in practice difficulties in concluding subordinate and technical agreements necessary to organise events in the context of bilateral cooperation. The present ratification law will make it possible to formalise relations and create the necessary legal framework for the continued joint activities of the Republic of Slovenia and the United States at both levels of cooperation, between the two defence ministries on the one hand and between the two general staffs on the other. In addition, the Agreement takes into legal form the fact that both Parties are members of the NATO Union. In the SMC Group, we are convinced that the implementation of the agreement is essential for the continued smooth and successful cooperation of both countries in the areas concerned. That is why we will support the ratification law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u240	We have concluded by presenting the position of the Group of Members. As no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body in the second reading, the amendment at the assembly meeting cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the bill. The United Left shall have an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u241	Thank you for your word. As is widely known, the United Left for NATO exit, although many say it's like the California Hotel, you get in, you can't get out. We advocate the non-blocking status of Slovenia, for example Finland, Switzerland, Austria. This is also the story of an old policy when entering the European Union, it was some kind of silent agreement, probably the pressure of the United States, as if it were talking about Siamese twins, which of course is not true. My colleague, a top international relations expert, could teach more about this. We know countries in the European Union that are not members of NATO, but we know countries in Europe that are members of NATO and have refused this in several referendums. I've been listening all week to this almost heartbreaking how we're all so young. Two cases. The United States is withdrawing from Afghanistan and, as they can do well, they'll be "shocking" us with seven trucks, which are not sitting in our medium-term strategic defence plan. Mr Resortary Minister can tell you that we will pay to transfer a third of a million euros to Slovenia, that is, to the extent that health insurance has not distributed to children in order to go to sea, according to their own words. The maintenance of these seven trucks, which, as I said before, will not be operational at all, but will cost us a million and a half, something like that, or a million and a half. This would be, say, a Slovenian membership of the European Space Agency, which has not yet been paid. Second case. There's a story coming up again that we need to buy a drone-free fleet, I hope not a drone. I don't think so. They're supposed to buy it abroad. Before the rebalancing was even envisaged for Slovenia to buy 8 by 2015, now there is only one, the price is supposed to be one million. We will buy it abroad, although the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia had two research programmes in Slovenia with Slovenian companies dealing with geodesy and drones, and for a lot less money we would buy this plane, which would be quite sufficient for us, I will say, the civilian rescue needs that are within this body. I could give you a few more cases. In short, let's give this money to Slovenian youth rather than spend it on some things that will soon turn out to be old, because the NATO military industry will tell us, "You have to buy something else." If it doesn't work out differently, they're going to decide to change the caliber of a weapon a little bit, and it's going to get old again, and we're going to buy something again. We're definitely against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u242	We have finished our explanations of vote and we can vote. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 72 votes against and 4 votes against. [[The vote was 72.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 8. At the end of the day, this is on the defence proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania on cooperation in the defence area. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u243	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of Defense! At its 13th meeting on 21 January this year, the Committee on Foreign Policy considered the proposal for a law on ratification of the agreement between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania on cooperation in the defence field submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration. In its consideration, the Committee took into account the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical legal aspects, and did not have any comments on the text of the draft law. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence, Mr Miloš Bizjak, gave an additional explanation. The Commission of the State Council for International Relations and European Affairs delivered its opinion on the draft law and supported it. As no amendment has been adopted to the draft law on the home working body, the Committee on Foreign Policy of the National Assembly proposes that the draft law on the ratification of an agreement between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania on cooperation in the defence field be adopted in the text submitted.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u244	There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body in the second reading, the amendment at the assembly meeting cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the bill. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the United Left, Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u245	Thank you very much. In the United Left, we submitted to the elections with a very clear position on Slovenia's membership of NATO. NATO is a purely classic military imperialist alliance that is concerned with the application of the interests of elites of some particular segment of the countries. In our view, at a transitional time when Slovenia is still a member of NATO, deepening cooperation with its members is neither justified nor necessary. The proposed agreement between the Ministry of Defence of Slovenia and Lithuania replaces a similar agreement in 2005. The only more important addition is the provision that the legal status of civil or military personnel of the Contracting Party during their stay in the territory of the other Contracting State shall be governed by the provisions of NATO SOFA, i.e. the NATO Status of Forces Agreement. Given that both Member States are NATO and signatories to the Agreement on the Status of Forces, this amendment is also more than symbolic in nature. The acceptance or non-adoption of the agreement would have no effect on the legitimate forms of cooperation between Lithuania and Slovenia in the military field. What we are dealing with today is indeed a very principled question. And since we in principle oppose the role of NATO in international relations and defend the non-blocking status of Slovenia, of course we will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u246	We have finished our explanations of vote, so we can vote. We're starting the vote. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 76 votes in favour, 5 votes in favour. [[The vote was 76.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to nine. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a bill on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding on the amendments to the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the United States of America on the Fulbright Exchange Programme. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Magi. Branislav Rajic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u247	Thank you for your word. At its 13th meeting on 21 January, the Committee on Foreign Policy addressed the proposal for a law on ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the United States on the Fulbright Exchange Programme, which we are considering in the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government. In its consideration, the Committee took into account the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects, and drew attention to the gap between the operator and the competent ministry. The solution so far states that the Fulbright programme in the Republic of Slovenia will be implemented by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs through the Public Fund for Human Development and Scholarship. For several years, with the financial support of the United States, it has been operated by the American Information Centre – Education USA Center Slovenia. The explanation also shows that the necessary financial resources are provided in the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology's financial plan. The legislative and legal service thus points out that the proposed different solutions are not clarified and are not exposed, although the explanation is an integral part of the bill's proposal in the legislative process and as such must clearly present the objectives pursued by the proposed regulation. In doing so, it must not be overlooked that the powers of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities have not been reduced at the time of the implementation of the original version of the Memorandum, but only added tasks in the field of equal opportunities. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Peter Macek, presented the advantages of Fulbright's scholarship exchange programme. The debate drew attention to the opinion and concerns of the Legislative and Legal Service and also raised the issue of taxation of such fellows. The Secretary of State replied that there were differences in the tax legislation of both countries, but in order to implement the Fulbright Scholarship Programme, a pragmatic solution was proposed by which both parties agreed. As no amendment has been adopted to the draft law on the home working body, the Committee on Foreign Policy of the National Assembly proposes that the draft law on the ratification of the Memorandum on amendments to the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the United States of America on the Fulbright Exchange Programme be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u248	Following is a presentation of the position of the members of the groups. On behalf of the SMC Group, he has the word mag again. Branislav Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u249	The Parliamentary Group of the Party of Mir Cerar supports the proposal for a law on ratification of the Memorandum on amendments to the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the United States of America on the Fulbright Exchange Programme. It provides citizens of Slovenia with a smooth participation in the Fulbright Exchange Programme. In doing so, it does not represent a significant loss of public finances for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Fulbright's exchange programme is an essential programme of international exchange between the United States of America and 155 other countries, including Slovenia. We have been participating in this programme since 1994, and since then more than 350 Slovenian postgraduate students, especially PhDs and researchers, have participated in the programme. In the last decade, academic rule in the United States has been made possible to five Slovenian researchers for the semester and up to three doctoral students for two semesters. Under Fulbright's programme, Slovenia also hosts students and researchers from the United States of America every year. At its meeting on 27 March last year, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a decision stipulating that the issue of taxation of revenues received under the Fulbright Exchange Programme should be regulated by an appropriate modification of the existing Memorandum. The proposed text of the amendments to the Memorandum was prepared by the Ministry of Finance and has already been aligned with the US Embassy in Ljubljana. The tax treatment, as governed by those provisions in the Memorandum, is essentially equivalent to the tax treatment provided for in point 2.a, where it is stated that: "Fulbright's scholarships are not actually treated either as payment for the work performed or as compensation for lost income." With this compromise proposal, the Slovenian side also wanted to achieve the formal balance of the memorandum of work relating to the tax treatment of revenues from the exchange programme. Notwithstanding the fact that the United States of America was not prepared to adopt the text referred to in point 2.b, the provisions on tax treatment in the agreement are the same as the tax treatment under US national law. Therefore, the tax treatment of income from the exchange programme will be regulated in a comparable manner on the Slovenian and American sides. This practically means that Slovenian fellows will no longer have to worry that the scholarships they receive from the Fulbright Fund will have to pay the tax they have been worried about so far. So far, they had to collect accounts for every smallest purchase and payment of services in America and prove to the Slovenian tax authorities that they had spent the grant on food, transportation, books and internet payments. Ratification of this Memorandum is in the interest of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and therefore the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Mir Cerar will vote in favour of the adoption of the proposal for a law on ratification of this Memorandum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u250	We have concluded by presenting the position of the Group of Members. As no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body in the second reading, the amendment at the assembly meeting cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 81 votes against and none against. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its member states on one side and the Republic of Iraq on the other. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Jožet Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u251	Your Honor! At its 13th meeting, on 21 January 2015, the Foreign Policy Committee addressed the Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Iraq, of the other part, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration. In its consideration, the Committee took into account the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, where the draft law was examined in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects and the text of the bill. Mr Mikhael Zupančič, Head of the International Law Sector at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, gave an additional explanation. The debate drew attention by the opposition Member to the fact that such agreements could be strongly subject only to economic interests, raising the question of who would benefit from the new open markets. The question of the composition of the Cooperation Council, which meets once a year at ministerial level, was also raised. The representative of the Government further explained that such agreements open up opportunities for cooperation and representation on the markets of all signatory countries. On the second question, however, he replied that the Council was headed by the Foreign Minister of the Presidency. As no amendment has been adopted to the draft law on the home working body, the Committee on Foreign Policy proposes to the National Assembly that the Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Iraq, of the other part, be adopted in the proposed text.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u252	Following is a presentation of the position of the Group of Members. On behalf of the SMC Group, Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u253	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. A respected choir! The SMC Group supports the proposal for a law on the Ratification of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Iraq, of the other part, by establishing a broad partnership basis for strengthening the links and cooperation between the European Union and Iraq in a number of areas, both political, legislative, economic, social, financial, cultural and other. The main objectives of the partnership established by the agreement concerned are: to provide an appropriate framework for political dialogue between the Parties, which enables the development of political relations, to promote trade, investment and coordinated economic relations between the Parties and thus to promote their sustainable economic development and, thirdly, to provide a basis for cooperation in the legislative, economic, social, financial and cultural fields. An essential element of the agreement is respect for democratic principles and human rights and the principles of the rule of law, the basis of the internal and international policies of both Parties. In the field of foreign and security policy, the agreement defines the fight against terrorism and the fight against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. In the area of investment cooperation, however, the agreement addresses all issues which may affect the scope and quality of such cooperation. In all these and many other areas, Slovenia will under this Agreement strengthen its cooperation and partnership with Iraq. It is also important to me that the Agreement establishes a Cooperation Council which oversees the implementation of the objectives of the Agreement and examines all the main bilateral and international issues of common interest. This institutional solution further ensures that the agreement, through constructive political dialogue, will also be implemented in practice. The Agreement aims to increase the scope and quality of cooperation between the European Union and its Republic of Slovenia, of the one part, and Iraq, of the other part. The SMC Group will therefore vote in favour of the adoption of this proposal for a law on ratification.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u254	We have concluded by presenting the position of the Group of Members. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the National Assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. Mr Kordiš has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u255	Thank you. This proposal to ratify the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Iraq, of the other part, is a fine example of looting. One of those rare cases in which the state of Slovenia is not an object of looting, but is actively involved in the looting of another country, in this case Iraq. In the United Left we object to the regulation of international relations solely on the basis of certain market legalitys. Usually, this process is called superficial and demagogosically globalisation and is presented as something urgent, as something most natural. In fact, it is short notice that the foreign security and economic policy of the United States of America is consciously directed when it was defeated in Vietnam and after the third world took over a new wind of national liberation fighting against colonial dependence. This also applies, of course, to dependent territories, not only to colonies. And what we are really observing today under the notion of globalisation is only an alternative to more equitable globalisation, which would come from the Atlantic Charter and the Philadelphia Declaration of the International Labour Organization. What capitalist globalisation brings us, we know. Its results are known and may even be the best personal claim of the position, the finding of Thomas Piketty, who says that we return evenly to the time of early capitalism. It is also clear where 20 years of sanctions and destruction have led to the systematic destruction of civilian infrastructure in Iraq. The agreement concluded by the European Union with Iraq is very similar to the transatlantic agreement imposed by US and British capital on the European Union. This is based on deregulation and liberalisation of the rubble of the Iraqi economic system, which would otherwise need state protection and regulation in order to recover after 20 years of destruction. Iraq and the European Union are at least equal on paper, but it is clear that the release of access to public procurement under Article 42 of the Agreement benefits only European multinationals who will be overrun by Iraqi companies. It is also clear that Article 60 protects patents and intellectual property of European multinationals, which are the basis of their technological monopoly and the developmental threat of the third world. Perhaps there is no need to stress the benefits of free access to the energy market, including the detection of stocks and the production of oil, as far as this market is concerned, after it has been distributed by American and British multinationals. In the United Left, of course, we will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u256	We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 74 votes against 5. [[The vote was 74.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 11. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for an act on the ratification of the Convention on the Limitation of Liability for Maritime Claims from 1976 and the 1996 Protocol amending the Convention on the Limitation of Liability for Maritime Claims from 1976. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to a member of Mr Mark Ferluga.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u257	Thank you for your word. At its 13th meeting, on 21 January, the Foreign Policy Committee addressed the proposal for a law on ratification of the 1976 Convention on the Limitation of Liability for Maritime Claims and the 1996 Protocol amending the 1976 Convention on the Limitation of Liability for Maritime Claims and submitted to the National Assembly by the Government. In its consideration, the Committee clearly took into account the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law and had no comments. An additional supplementary explanation was provided by the representative of the Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia, who explained that, in order to comply with Directive 2009/20/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 April 2009 on the insurance of shipowners for maritime claims and to ensure higher limits on liability for maritime claims, the Republic of Slovenia must adopt such an arrangement as to be bound only by the Protocol. The importance of applying the Protocol is for all EU Member States, provided that the Convention and the Protocol are applied as a single document and that both documents are submitted for consideration. No amendments to the draft law on the home labour body were adopted and the Committee on Foreign Policy proposed to the National Assembly that the National Assembly should adopt the draft law on ratification of the Convention on Limitation of Liability for Maritime Claims in 1976 and the 1996 Protocol amending the Convention on Limitation of Liability for Maritime Claims in 1976. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u258	Thank you. There are no applicants for discussion this time. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly could not be tabled. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. PERIOD OF THE DAY – MANATIAN VOLUNTARY MATTERS. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal to appoint a Deputy Ombudsman. The Ombudsman shall be by letter of 11. 12. 2014 She proposed to the National Assembly that Mr Ivan Shelih be reappointed as Deputy Ombudsman for a period of 6 years. I give the floor to the applicant, the Ombudsman of Ms Vlasta Nussdorfer, to further explain the proposal for appointment.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u259	Dear President of the National Assembly, Dr. Brglez, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I'm here today because I've proposed to be my fourth deputy, Ivan Shelih. I'm sure you've come to an accurate knowledge of his résumé, including what I added to my resume. Why I decided to make this proposal. Mr Ivan Shelih is one of the youngest deputies, just another deputy, mag. Frostbite is about the same age. This is the man who, after his judicial examination, came to the Ombudsman as a professional associate. It is true, however, that the Ombudsman has almost 20 years, but only the first term, which will end on 15 June of this year, runs. I decided after a thorough consideration, because it's a lawyer with a high level of expertise. I myself, as a prosecutor, had been doing this work for 35 years, realized his work and realized that it was a lawyer of high proportions. He is also righteous, honest, very strict toward his subjects, from whom he demands the faithful conduct of his work. His area is all as early as possible. It covers justice, police procedures and the state preventive mechanism. All these areas are still being cut into the lives of many people in Slovenia. The area of justice is always under criticism. It is also certainly right for people to talk about this, but it is still right that in these areas the work of those working in the justice system is professionally assessed. And Deputy Ivan Shelih does it with all his faith. If you look at the Ombudsman's reports for the past year, especially for the period when he was himself a deputy, and also the one where I am also a guardian, you can find that he is very precise and warns and criticises what is wrong. Once again, he is talking about lengthy judicial proceedings, but also about improving the state of justice. It speaks of the need for professional, weighty and such decisions to stop trials at even higher levels and that they are not human rights violations. This area is of course very sensitive, for it is not expected that those who write to the guardian, to whom anyone is praised, are not satisfied with the decision, but the guardian is the one who is limited in this area. It can only identify the duration of the procedure and, if it is obvious, the emphasis is obvious, the abuse of power, which is even a criminal offence of the one who so judges. Then there is the area of the State Preventive Mechanism and police procedures, also here consciously doing its work and reaping good results. In the field of the State Mechanism, he also teaches others, not only ours, but also the foreign country that comes to visit us. He is also a lecturer, especially in the field of police procedures, as his recommendations and those given to the Ministry of the Interior and the police are generally accepted as critical but worthy of consideration in the National Assembly. And because it has many qualities, I have made the same decision as the former guardian to hand it over to you and to confirm my choice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u260	The proposal considered the Mandate-Election Commission as a mother's work, which had reported in writing to the assembly and had submitted a proposal for a decision. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the SMC Group, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek is a member.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u261	Thank you. All those who accompany this meeting are respected! I will be brief in this implementation. The material we discussed on the Mandate-Election Commission and the very presentation by the Ombudsman suggests a rich CV of the proposed candidate. Ivan Shelih is building a career system from a judicial examination onward. He stood up for the justice system. His rich way of life shows that he is also bound to abroad, to the European space as well as to the wider space, so that his career represents significant progress in this regard and the approximation of Slovenia to the Ombudsman in the entire European space. His transparent work shows that he advocates the rights of all those involved in the proceedings. We have noted, however, that in the follow-up processes where he will participate, particular attention must be paid to the trend that is emerging in Europe, namely the fear of crime or the emergence of a fair of crime when national governments use fear of organised crime, terrorism and other cases in Europe to introduce repressive mechanisms, which, on the other hand, involve human rights and reduce these human rights. And that's where his quality shows up to point out these mistakes. To conclude, by highlighting its area of the judiciary and the police, it is in these areas that we see that there are many issues on all commissions and committees, many violations of human rights. And these are the key points at which human rights will be demonstrated in the future. In view of this, we have assessed in the parliamentary group that we will support the proposed candidate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u262	The SDS Group, Mrs Eva Irgle, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u263	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members, respectable guardian of human rights! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we closely monitor both the work of the Ombudsman and his deputies. Since this is a very important and sensitive function that draws attention to human rights violations, we need to be even more careful about what individuals we choose in these places or those situations. When we recently voted on the two deputies, Mr Rovšk and Mr Dolčič, we were against their appointment in the Slovenian Democratic Party, and we also based this on both the Mandate-Electorial Commission and later in the National Assembly. We will do the same in the case of Mr Shelih. Like the Ombudsman, his deputies are those who are called to protect human rights, to warn them of violations, to hope for exposure and to speak out loud when there is a grave interference with human rights, but not when, say politically, it does not suit them, they put their heads in the sand and act as if there is nothing. However, since I am working closely with the Ombudsman personally, I wish that these things, which I regularly remind and remind myself of today, would also change for the better. Mr Shelih, as a deputy to date, covered the area of justice, the area of internal affairs or police procedures and all forms of personal freedom. And it is in the Slovenian Democratic Party that we have been drawing attention to the anomaly in justice for a very long time, i.e. those violations which Mr Shelih should have pointed out, because this is his area. All this and many other content related to human rights violations have been regularly recalled by the Commission's meetings on petitions and on human rights and equal opportunities. However, not the Ombudsman, not Mr Shelih, did not attend meetings on these content relating to human rights violations in the judiciary. The President of the Supreme Court, Mr Branko Maslesha, has violated human rights in the Chambers of Justice at least fourteen times and no sanctions have been imposed against him. Nor did Mr Shelih, who covers this area, hear that he would ever be identified for these violations. Such practices seem unacceptable to us and also point to a different attitude towards the legislative branch of government. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, therefore, we will not support the proposal for a new, old Deputy Ombudsman, Mr Shelih. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u264	The word is given by the SD Group of Members, for her mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u265	Thank you very much, distinguished President of the National Assembly, the Guardian, the Honourable President of the Council of Justice, colleague and colleague! In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the Ombudsman's proposal to appoint her deputy Ivan Shelih. We estimate that the proposed candidate, with his previous work, justified the trust of the National Assembly, which he had already appointed in June 2006 in this responsible function. Mr Shelih, acting as Deputy Ombudsman, is responsible for the issue of judicial and police procedures and all forms of deprivation of personal freedom and the exercise of the tasks and powers of the State preventive mechanism. This is therefore a sensitive area where human freedom and its rights are the most intensive. This makes it all the more important that all such interventions and procedures are genuinely based on legitimate grounds and that every time an intervention by the State into a human stick is justified and proportionate and not more intense than it is necessary. We are aware of the fact that Mr Shelih has performed very responsible tasks in very sensitive areas where we still have a lot and a lot of problems as a country. Here I am thinking mainly of the pressing issue of the staffing shortage of employees and the spatial hardships in prisons, of the still too long judicial proceedings, and of the difficulties in awarding, equipping and hiring police officers, which unfortunately could jeopardize their quality work and consequently have a negative impact on the areas of human freedom mentioned above. We are aware that the current circumstances are those that do not promise that the Deputy Guardian would have fewer worries, fewer jobs and fewer responsibilities in the future. The other way around. Unfortunately, the security situation in Europe and also in the world is leading to a trend that is likely to cause even greater pressure on the part of the State in the area of personal freedom and human rights in general. It is therefore essential that we have effective systemic control over any such operation of the country, which would affect the legality and eligibility of individuals' rights and freedoms, and also raises a strong awareness of the possible irregularities that occur in this regard. The Ombudsman, with his team, is only part of this control, which is necessary and indispensable. In the Group of Social Democrats, we therefore welcome the role played so far by Mr Shelih, the Deputy Ombudsman, who has actively cooperated with the various stakeholders in his field and has certainly helped to minimise irregularities and violations by the State. Some are disappointed with their work because in the past it was not too loud to warn when various predictive and criminal proceedings against the SDS President took place. Indeed, he may not have answered, but he also kept silent when the said one did not respond and took part in criminal proceedings. In addition, we believe that it is not the Ombudsman's or his deputies' mission to publicly defend influential individuals, but rather to ensure that the human rights of the weakest categories of people are protected in the first place. There's got to be a lot of work to do in this area. We hope and believe that the National Assembly of Mr Shelih will reaffirm his position as the Deputy Ombudsman to carry out its work conscientiously and successfully, so that in the Group of Social Democrats we express our full support for the appointment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u266	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u267	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor! I'll be brief. I've said a lot on the board. In the Group of Members, the United Left will, of course, support the proposal. It is enough that we have read his CV, his proposal for appointment and, of course, the words that Mrs Vlasta Nussdorfer, the Ombudsman, has already said. She said some words that are enough to carry out her work conscientiously, accurately, covering many areas, warning and proposing, teaching and also helping. This is also proved by the Ombudsman's reports every year, where it is quite a part of his field, and if Mrs Nussdorfer, who has also been a prosecutor for a long time, can view his work as a good one or, as I think, even an excellent one, then we can believe it. Let me give you a few more personal impressions. I know Ivan Shelih, not as Deputy Guardian, but as a consultant. In the same areas he worked excellently, conscientiously, he had a lot of knowledge, but above all it was important that he responded extremely quickly to all complaints or requests for assistance. And those quick answers weren't badly written. As I said on the committee, he was a group of those coworkers whose texts I read when I signed letters only if I wanted to learn something from him, not to control him. That's enough. If I add, in addition to expertise, that he took justice into account, very conscientiously in addition to the law, and that he had a hearing for people in distress, I think I have said enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u268	We have concluded by presenting the views of the parliamentary groups and there are also no reported panellists. I therefore put to the vote a proposal for a decision appointing Mr Ivan Shelih as Deputy Ombudsman. The mandate starts at 17. 6. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 62 votes against 15. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against 15.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The National Assembly appointed Mr Ivan Shelih as the Deputy Ombudsman, so I ask him to swear before the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u269	I swear to do my duty under the Constitution and the law, to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms, to carry out my work conscientiously and impartially, while respecting the principles of justice and good governance.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u270	I congratulate the Deputy Ombudsman on his appointment and wish him a successful job. / applause/ We are moving on to the examination of the motion for election to a judicial office of a higher judge in the higher court in Celje. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of Dr Anita Dolinšek as a judge, to the Court of Justice of the Supreme Court in Celje. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Mr Janez Vlad, President of the Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u271	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! With regard to this additional explanation, as has been announced, I am confined only to an additional explanation concerning the application for the seat of Judge of the High Court in Celje. It is not common for a representative of the body that proposes to the National Assembly to elect a candidate for judicial office to attend plenary sessions after the procedure has already been carried out on the Commission for Mandate-Election, which I have also attended. Nor is it common or is it very common for the proposed judges not to be elected in the National Assembly. Finally, such a case occurred in the early 1990s when the National Assembly did not elect a candidate for the post of Supreme Court, which resulted in the resignation of the former First President of the First Council of the Supreme Court of Justice, Prof. Dr. Boris Strozak, now deceased. Today, in 2015, we are ahead of this, given the outcome of the vote on the Mandate-Electorial Commission, that this will happen another time. Here I am confined to the election of regular judges in the judiciary and I leave out cases of election to the post of Constitutional Judges and European Judges and Presidents of the Supreme Court. The implementation of the original procedure between candidates for admission to judicial service shall be subject to the Constitution and by law only to the Council of Justice. It is a body that is the product of a constitutionally designed principle of power-sharing, with an integrated system of brakes and balances, as an essential condition for the cohesion of all three branches of government according to the principles of democratic social regulation. All of this in order to prevent the possibility of returning to a single system of power that we have given up largely. Therefore, in my view, sustainability is essential for every time a threat or temptation to exceed the limits of the powers of the individual authorities. The Council of Justice is a plural body composed of, as you all know, five members elected in the National Assembly of the types of university professors, lawyers and other lawyers, and the remaining six candidates, after a sufficiently complicated electoral system of the types of judges of all stages. It is precisely because of the important tasks and functions entrusted to this body that a number of security guards are installed. You must know that any more important decision of the Council of Justice, including the selection of candidates for judicial office, must be voted by 8 votes in favour of 11, the unelected candidate has the opportunity to exercise judicial protection before the Administrative Court. However, it may seem problematic to enter a position that is solely in the domain of the Council of Justice, such as an opinion of an authority which [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] I'm sorry if my time is up. I guess so. I'll finish. This is a candidate, and I would just like to say this, because there have also been reports from the media to give priority to a candidate who has no judicial experience. We had no possibility of discriminating an external candidate because, according to the law, the legal experience is equal to that of the judiciary, and according to this criterion has an advantage over everyone or is equal to the anti-candidate, but with 21-year-olds on legal cases after a judicial examination, compared with 13-year-old experiences against candidates. It is a doctor of legal science who has published 38 bibliographical units, also taking into account co-authorism and mentoring. It is a candidate who has recently received an invitation from the Centre for Education in Justice to teach at judicial schools, and this to judges of all degrees. However, this judge now faces the threat of being found inappropriate in Parliament for the function of a higher judge. These eyewitnesses were discarded. And somehow it's been exposed to the Mandate-Electorial Commission as a bearer, main indication of a violation of the principle. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u272	Now I invite you to finish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u273	I'm sorry. Now it's a final thought. Therefore, I believe that the failure to elect a candidate could carry the danger of a message that the door has also been opened for the future revision of the substantive assessment of the eligibility of the selection of candidates before the National Assembly as an authority that does not have the powers and tools to do this work and can only do so on other criteria, political ones which must not be taken into account in the selection for admission to judicial service. This would mean the beginning of the end of the independence of the judiciary, the beginning of the abolition of the above-mentioned system of brakes and balances and thus the democratic functioning of society. Thank you very much. I'm sorry I'm late.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u274	The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as a working body, which submitted a proposal for a decision to the assembly and proposed to the assembly that it should not be accepted. Here comes a presentation of the views of the delegations. The word is given by the SDS Group of Members, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u275	Thank you very much, President. I'm sorry. I'm sorry to overstep the five-minute clock. Look, the situation is absurd, what we just heard. The President of the Council of Justice comes and says that something terrible is going to happen and that the judiciary is going to fall together and that this is something unheard of if the National Assembly accidentally dared to vote against it. Excuse me, then what is the National Assembly? A self-service store where the Council of Justice comes and takes what he wants for free! You have put us before the fact that we must vote in favour. Yeah, how? Then why are we Members? Let me get to the point. On the Mandate-Election Commission, the result of the vote was 15 to 0, which means that the National Assembly has fully unified itself so as not to appoint these candidates as a higher judge. If I can explain this in more detail, the situation is next. An invitation to tender for a higher judge in Celje was issued last March. Mrs Dolinškov has applied and Mrs Pavičeva has applied. Mrs Dolinškova is a lawyer, employed at TES 6 before becoming a lawyer. At the same time, Mrs Pavičeva, a judge with 8 years of working experience, a successful judge in the local environment, said the economists because she was working in this area. Of course, Mrs Pavičeva's complaint followed. The Administrative Court gave Mrs Pavichev the full right. But the Council of Justice came back with a proposal to appoint Mrs Dolinška. Mrs Dolinskova is supposed to remain a senior judge. I'm on the Commission of Mandate, the President knows I've quoted the decisions of the Council of Justice. The Council of Justice in the same proceedings, when one of the lawyers refused her appointment and said, "No, you can't be appointed as a district judge until you have gained experience in the district court, that is, in a lower court." This time, however, the Council of Justice rejects a judge and pressures a person for a higher judge into the National Assembly. Look, this is completely contradictory to what the Council of Justice claims in the case of other candidates. At the same time, the Council of Justice – I also quoted the ruling of the Administrative Court, which rejected a candidate, with an explanation written by the Council of Justice, namely, "you cannot be in a district court unless you have gained experience in a district court." This time it's a matter of a higher judge. And one more thing. The higher court in Celje will deal with the vast majority of criminal cases concerning TES 6. However, the candidate lady reviewed all the contracts TES 6 concluded with Alstom. But today we have stopped the investigative commission. So the matter is inadmissible. I am pleased, although we have before us a decision that says to be called Madam Senior Judge, and according to what was on the Mandate-Election Commission 15:0, is expected and I expect from my fellow Members, in particular from the SMC, you are simply a leading party to the coalition, including from the others, that we will vote against it. The lady also responded with a public letter, where she attacked me and said I was forcing Mrs Pavičeva. I publicly declare that I do not know Mrs Pavicheva and have never met her in my life. I have no idea who that is. All I know from her biography is that the judge is eight years old and is successfully solving economic disputes, as business people from this area tell me. And such an attitude towards the National Assembly, Mr President of the Council of Justice, I would be happy if you would step down. Why? For a basic reason, look, this is the situation, you come to the National Assembly and you say we have to do this, or you will not be independent justice anymore. And we're not an independent parliament, are we? I'm sorry, but it gives me and all Members of Parliament the opportunity to vote in our conscience, not in your opinion, and you do. The thing is not admissible, I'm calling it back. And more. The appointment of this lady, although the Administrative Court said no and said that Mrs Pavičeva is right, tells us her. Last but not least, Mrs Murglov also came from the outside, if we call it that, and she also had to go to the lowest place. I'm asking you to refuse a candidate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u276	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be discussed by the Members. Mr Franz Breznik, SDS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u277	Thank you for your word. I hope, dear colleagues and colleagues, that colleague Gorenak has at least somehow explained to us some history that has been happening in the last few days here in the National Assembly. I can insist that this is one perhaps truly specific situation, but after all that I have done in recent years, which has come to the public about some of the judges, what they have been called, what they have been doing in recent years, believe me, that today we have some judges who have been civil servants, that we have some judges who have doubtfully done even a judicial examination, there is a whole range of evidence that some have come to a judicial examination in the past with certain forged documents. Here I have a contract, the signature of the TER 6 contract with Alstomo, where Dr. Uroš Rotnik is signed under the contract, and she initialled the contract for a judge. I'll be brief. There could be an absurd situation within the hour. On the one hand, we are setting up a commission to investigate one of the biggest corruption affairs in the history of Slovenia, and at the same time, we would confirm a candidate who, I believe, is not a reasonable suspect at this time, but someone who initialled the contract and was also appointed to an expert group. So it's an absurd thing to do today in the National Assembly. I might say, I need to use a little more sharp words that, on the side of the Council of Justice, you somehow wanted us to plant a cowardly egg here today in the National Assembly. And see, after all that we have experienced in the past months and years, the question whether the former Members and Members have not been a little more attentive, how many such cowardly eggs have been planted. Because it came after some automation that was somehow used to in the former Communist congregation, where it always rose to two hundred or I don’t know how many hands and it all confirmed. I hope democracy works. I wouldn't want to accuse the candidates of being a little nicer today, but I'm talking about an absurd situation that could happen today. I would like to thank my colleagues and colleagues who have been a little more attentive, who are aware of the situation that might happen if the candidates do not come to the city, not the district, but not the post of Senior Judge in Celje. I will also vote against the fact that such a person is confirmed and let the Council of Justice find in any composition any more suitable candidate. Which somehow creates some new questions for me, however, is how can he even judge someone who comes as a professional associate or as a lawyer even to a higher court and someone who was a judge in a hierarchy. On the one hand, someone has always been evaluated by an official evaluation of his products, i.e. his judicata, his judgments, and someone who has never written a judgment. How can we even compare these two candidates? I believe that someone who has been preparing judgments that was already part of the judiciary and someone who has only been in the role of a lawyer that is difficult to compare is difficult to compare all the years of practice of a lawyer with all the years of practice of a single judge. I hope that this vote will also bring about a change today, that we will be more attentive in the National Assembly of Members and Members to those whom you propose, and that the judicial branch of power or that the Council of Justice is not something which is then the one who gives the Green Light in the Council of Justice is something that is self-evident, which has almost always happened in this national assembly. That is why I believe that before a situation, before an event that is specific, it can also be said that there is some resultant, some way that Members and Members of Parliament are going to run and those who are going to go, I can say, in a permanent mandate, we will become a little more careful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u278	I conclude the debate and put to the vote a motion for a decision on the election of Dr Anita Dolinšek to the judicial office of the Higher Court of Justice in Celje. The mandate-holder committee shall propose to the National Assembly not to adopt this proposal for a decision. Did anyone want a word on behalf of the parliamentary group? No, no, no. Just in your own name. Then I'm asking you to sign up. The explanation for the vote is Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u279	Thank you for your word. I know the case, as far as I was aware here in Parliament, my colleague Gorenak described it well. I must say, I have a dilemma about such votes when we talk about the third branch of power. Some say everything's great, the SDS has one completely opposite opinion, and often you have a feeling, I don't know if the soup is warm or cold or if it's somewhere in between. But these are some things that I think we should solve a little bit and also think about how we talk about the third branch of power. I'll vote against it. As far as I know, she will vote against most of my friends and my comrades. Why? Because the proposal itself is so unacceptable. I know quite a few judges, how very difficult they are to progress through this system, and it seems to me that the judicial system is a little too much, I don't know its composition, but it's parallelist and male-centric. I'm usually told that I'm rude, but what you, sir, have afforded here, I must agree with my colleague Gorenak, goes beyond all limits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u280	This concludes the explanation of vote and allows us to vote. We're voting. 82 Members are present. None of them voted against it. [[No one voted for it.]] [[Against everyone.]] . I take it that the decision is not taken. We are moving on to the examination of the proposals for election to the judicial function of the District Court in the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. The Council of Justice submitted three motions for election to the National Assembly in a judicial capacity, at the courts of the three District Judges in the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. In order to further explain the proposals, I give the floor to the President of the Council of Justice to Mr Janez Vlaj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u281	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. I have already said an additional explanation aimed at the proposal for the position of Senior Judge in Celje, on this candidacy. Otherwise, everything has already been said on the Commission's terms of reference for these three candidates. I have no further explanation here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u282	Thank you. The proposals were addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission, as the working body of the country and submitted proposals for conclusions to the assembly. Following is a presentation of the position of the Group of Members. On behalf of the SDS Group, Dr. Vinko Gorenak shall have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u283	Thank you very much. I will now say so, honourable Members and Members, which I have not yet said about this speaker. I am pleased with the previous conclusion that once we have shown what the National Assembly is. Thank you very much. As far as this agenda item is concerned, the appointment of three new judges, I would like to draw attention to the following. Slovenia has far the largest number of judges and judges per hundred thousand inhabitants. That's information you all know. Slovenia pays, two years old data, 86 euros per judge pays a Slovenian citizen. Europeans pay an average of 42 euros per judge. In some individual countries of the European Union, as well as 22,23 euros per capita for the judiciary. That's one piece of data. The second thing that seems very important to me is that when the great majority or more than 50 Members of Parliament who are Members today have not been Members, in 2013 then Justice Minister Senko Plicanić, together with Mrs Bratuškov, who is here between us, and the President of the Supreme Court, signed one, as they then called it, a commitment to the citizens. The government may have wanted a little more, but then the so-called commitment to citizens was technically achieved. There it was said that the government would provide within two years, if I recall correctly, about three million or something over, and the government of Alenka Bratušek also assured it. That's what you have to say. The Supreme Court with President Maslesha has committed itself to reducing the number of judges. I don't know the numbers anymore, but we got about 980 judges. At that time, it was predicted that this number would fall to around 920, if I recall correctly. And in one year, in fact, ladies and gentlemen, not much has happened. The judiciary collected the money, but it did not respect the commitment to citizens to reduce the number of judges. The number of judges can be reduced — how? I'm not going to, I'm going to say, throw them on the road or become some kind of technological surplus and so on and so forth. Probably not even the previous government had that in mind. But the point is that we can lower the number of judges naturally when people leave, not name people from the outside, but redistribute them within the judicial system. That seems like a pretty normal thing to me. And today we have a proposal for a job from outside, so to speak. With this appointment, we will hire three judges who come outside this system. You know that you all got before something, I don't know, two, three months ago a letter from Judge Vera Kramberger of the Slovenian Horses, where he called the Mandate- volitional Commission and said, "The judges are too many of us. Judges are too expensive." There are also some other letters from the judges saying, "There are too many of us. We have nothing to do." What does that mean? In some parts, in some courts, of course, this does not apply to all courts. What does that mean? That we can lower the number of judges by not hiring them from the outside. And even in this case, the invitation to tender which was published could go in this direction to invite existing judges who exist, who are already judges, who are interested in going to the Administrative Court. I believe that such candidates would also be within the already employed judges. This way we wouldn't hire from outside. I think that this is also a policy, and I am pleased that we have reached a conclusion on the Mandate-Electorial Commission that in the future, in any calls for judges from outside, we will have information on how to deal with the number of judges, how to implement this commitment that has been, and what are the real needs for us to hire judges from outside. The situation here is such that the Commission has confirmed the appointment of these three judges. On behalf of the parliamentary group, I declare that we will not vote that we will not cast our vote or that the "quorum" key will be taken into account. I believe, however, that the Commission should also consider seriously in the future how it is to employ judges from outside and how to regulate the number of judges according to the costs and the number of judges in other European Union countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u284	We have concluded by presenting the position of the Group of Members. The debate is followed by a debate by Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u285	Mr President, thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I usually don't have the habit of reading some texts, but I do have to read a text that I have read once before, so that the public will understand exactly this statement that colleague Gorenak has just presented. In front of me I have part of a letter from one of the judges, I will not name it, some of you know the name and surname that wrote the following: "In the minutes of the Court of Justice of the Republic of Slovenia of 2 October 2014, I have noted that the members of the Council of Justice have proposed to the three free seats of the District Judge at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana to the National Assembly for election candidates who are not judges. By appointing non-judges, the number of courts is artificially increased. According to the number of judges per capita, Slovenia is at the top of the European countries. According to data published by the European Commission for the effectiveness of the judiciary in the Council of Europe, in 2010 49.9 judges per hundred thousand people were in Slovenia, which is the largest among the Member States of the European Union. This figure is 2.3 times the measured average of 48 in a survey involving European Member States, 21.6 judges per hundred thousand inhabitants, a criterion or some average in the European Union. For comparison. The study notes that there are 11 judges per hundred thousand inhabitants in Italy and 17.8, and 24.3 judges in Germany. This judge also wrote in this letter the following words: "On all three of the courts' seats, judges have been applied and all three courts represent a judicial promotion to the seat of the district judge." So she also talks about not going through some hierarchy, but going into the middle of some career path of a judge. "If the judge is not a suitable candidate for secondment, action should be taken against him. Therefore, the notified judges are to be considered unfit and disposed of, otherwise rationally and economically, for taxpayers to be allocated to the vacant seats. Judges are also seen in practice that there are too many judges. The number of cases new to the courts is falling dramatically, and some of us already have few cases allocated in terms of capabilities. A reduction in the number of judges is the necessity of Slovenian society and I suggest that you take this into account in the new appointment of judges. I greet you kindly." Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we talked about a whole series of policies. We were talking about austerity measures. Through the media, we can see every day the drastic problems the Clinical Center in Ljubljana has when there is a lack of doctors, nurses working in impossible conditions. So there is no possibility of employment, and here the judges themselves say that some trend is falling and that we do not need new judges. There is no rationalisation, no reassignment to the courts where they need it. Some serious, rational action in this branch of power is not taking place. And that's what the judges themselves find out. For this reason, I will abstain from this vote, I will not oppose this candidate as I did in the previous case, because I do not really know her, but I believe that the Council of Justice can look for or the courts themselves find some internal rationalisations and find candidates who can be reassigned to other courts. I will therefore abstain from voting on my own. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u286	I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the proposals for decisions. Firstly: I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision on the election of Mrs Anja Bizjak to the judicial seat of the District Court at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 61 votes against 1. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Second: I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision on the election of Mrs Urška Kržan Barič to the court seat of the District Court at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 61 votes against 1. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Thirdly: I am putting to the vote a proposal for a decision on the election of the Magi. Katje Pešl Tacol to the court seat of the District Court at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 62 votes against 1. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a President and nine members of the Supervisory Board of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. Following is a presentation of the position of the Group of Members. On behalf of the Group, the United Left has the word of Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u287	Thank you for your word, chairman. Colleagues are humorous today, and after all, we must show in Parliament that we are not one beast. The United Left is absolved of this matter. Why? We talked about energy for long and wide. A while ago, when we were talking about this decommissioning fund, his report, there was a colleague of mine, and I'm not going to name him, which I appreciate, and I was like, "Did you know that?" It's coming from the financial lines. I said, "Yeah, I knew because I was just working in a center that was dealing with "shit," as we always said, lower and medium-radioactive waste dumps. They even chased us through Haloza when they wanted to put it there. This is some kind of decommissioning fund from which, if there is no quality control, we can get some mini TEŠ 6 in due course. The Croatian side has already said that the proposals on this type of landfill proposed by the Slovenian side, of course, are too high over the thumb, are already threatening to make such a landfill for themselves. Okay, it's in the background here, if I say so myself, but forensics would probably lead to this, some combination, as we call it, of a building lobby or, if you want, of a concrete mafia and a nuclear part of an energy lobby. And somehow so on a quick-to-do politicized sort of composition of this body, it seems to me to continue some kind of politicization or that's exactly what it is. I understand what my colleague Marjan is trying to say. I've been here four years. I didn't do anything. It was your fault you weren't interested enough, pal. And probably most of you don't even know what we're talking about here. For example, I was surprised at the time when they told us that it was five people, but that there was only one broker who didn't even have any crazy control or control council – we're talking about another story – that supervisory board was supposed to sign all the transactions over 50,000. I would very much like to send a committee to monitor this a little bit, because I seriously doubt that this is happening in practice, you know. I won't be too long, I know you'll go home, snow or it's already stopped Short, the United Left has been held back. This is a very good example, however, that at some points that we may have at the end of the day, at the end of the week, and you read them so quickly, and you may not be as clear as colleagues Hanzku are not clear pairers, I am not sure whether that is a veneer or not, but we need to ask ourselves somehow, because this is a case where we are talking again about the 100-million-dollar amount of nuclear decomposition, we should share this in half with Croats. These committees have been formally burned; they have not met since 2010, if I have the correct information. It's just a matter of serious business. Here again, it will be possible to confuse the money at home so much that the Slovenian science sector, especially the research sector, if obtained, will smooth the beard. I urge you to work seriously on Fridays, if that's not the case, drink Red Bull as president of the country, but he's not healthy for the kidneys. We will be absolved of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u288	We have concluded the presentation of the Group's position. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision to appoint a mag to the Supervisory Committee of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. Matjaž Vodušek and as members are Mr Pavel Brglez, Mr Franjo Curanović, Mr Robert Čehovin, Mr Franz Floriančič, Mr Dušan Hočevar, Mr Bojan Horvat, Mr Tomislav Jurman, Mr Jožef Kocuvan and Mrs Tamara Vonta. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 69 votes against 2. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the hearing of the District Court Notice in Ljubljana, Investigation Department, on the introduction of criminal proceedings against Ambassador Janez (Ivan) Janša. The notice was forwarded to the National Assembly by the District Court in Ljubljana, Investigation Department. The notice was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body which informed the assembly in writing. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u289	Thank you very much for your word. Now we have or have three other decisions related to the immunity of one and the same person associated with the decision on Janez Janša. As regards immunity, this provision is very clearly set out in Article 30 of the Constitution. Immunity shall be decided when the Member refers to it or if the National Assembly wishes to grant immunity to it. We can now find here that Janez Janša did not invoke immunity, nor did anyone propose in the procedure of the Mandate-Election Commission, nor did the Members of our parliamentary group, nor any other parliamentary group, or anyone else, to grant John Janša immunity. Which essentially means that the President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission and the President of the National Assembly could issue a finding that the Member did not invoke immunity, nor did anyone propose it. What is happening in the National Assembly when deciding on immunity is contrary to constitutional regulation, for the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are written in a different way. These procedures serve more or less to discredit the person against whom proceedings are brought. In the specific case against Janez Janša, more or less, indictive proceedings or premeditated proceedings are brought before a court and attempt to discredit Janez Janša, a member of the Slovenian Democratic Party, is essentially aimed at preventing a political opponent. Indeed, it also shows that the Constitutional Court has suspended one of such proceedings, in fact, the suspension of the sentence, and is likely to continue once, even in such a sense, when it decides. We in our parliamentary group are not in favour of granting immunity to officials. We've always said that, and we've never supported immunity. However, in such procedures, when it comes to apparent distortions, we believe that the human rights of those found in these proceedings are also being violated. Because these are imaginary actions, imaginary lawsuits that actually cause great problems for those who find themselves in such procedures. Therefore, Mr President, in these further procedures, we will not participate in the vote, we are forecasting obstruction and I propose to the National Assembly that, if it is not possible for them to have a constitutional review of the rule of law in the field of immunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-01-30-SDZ7-Redna-04.ana.u290	So we're moving on to a decision. The Commission proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: National Assembly, pursuant to the third paragraph of Article 83 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 22 of the Law on Members concerning the notification of the District Court in Ljubljana, Investigation Section, No. 4KPR 11451/2014, of 15. 12. On the introduction of criminal proceedings against Member Janez (Ivan) Janša for the suspicion of a crime of abuse of position or rights under Article 244(1) and (2) of the Penal Code relating to Articles 25 and 27 of the Penal Code, Janša does not recognise the immunity of Member Janez (Ivan) Janša. Pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 207 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall decide on the proposal for a decision without discussion. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. There were 63 votes in favour and none against. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the hearing of the Notice of the District Court in Ljubljana, the Penal Department, on the indictment filed against Ambassador Ivan (Janez) Janša. The notice was forwarded to the District Court in Ljubljana, the Penal Department, for consideration of the meeting. The notice was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body which informed the assembly in writing. We're moving on to decision-making. The Commission proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: National Assembly, pursuant to the third paragraph of Article 83 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 22 of the Law on Members in relation to the Notice of the District Court in Ljubljana, Criminal Section, No. IK 10099/2012 of 16. 12. In 2014, Janša, on the charge brought against Member Janez (Ivan) for the suspicion of a criminal offence in the first paragraph of Article 283 of the Penal Code, KZ1, in relation to Article 20 of the Penal Code or KZ1, and for the offence of an offensive charge under Article 160, paragraph 1, of the Penal Code, in relation to Article 168, paragraph 2, of the Penal Code, does not recognise the immunity of John (Ivan) Janša. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 207 of the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly shall decide on the proposal for a decision without discussion. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the hearing of the Notice of the District Court in Ljubljana, the Penal Department, on a private action brought against Ambassador Ivan (Janez) Janša. The notice was forwarded to the District Court in Ljubljana, the Penal Department, for consideration of the meeting. The notice was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body which informed the assembly in writing. We're moving on to decision-making. The Commission proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: National Assembly, pursuant to the third paragraph of Article 83 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 22 of the Law on Members in relation to the Notice of the District Court in Ljubljana, Section of Criminal Procedure, IK80163/2010, of 16. 12. In 2014, on the action brought against Member Janez (Ivan) Janša for the suspicion of a criminal offence under Article 160, paragraph 2, and Article 160, paragraph 1, of the Penal Code, does not recognise the immunity of Member Janez (Ivan) Janša. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 207 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the National Assembly shall decide on the proposal for a decision without discussion. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this item of the agenda and also the 4th meeting of the National Assembly.
