ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 23rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened under Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mrs Iva Dimic by 3 p.m., mag. Jana Jenko, Mr Jožef Horvat from 13:00 to 18:00, Mr Jernej Vrtovec from 20:00 onwards, Matjaž Han from 12:00 to 19:00 and Mr Janez Janša. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 23rd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Monday, 2 November 2015, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. The Group of 84 Members and Members, first signed by Dr Simono Kustec Lipicer, submitted a request for an extraordinary meeting with the point of the Proposal for a Decision rejecting the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the Law supplementing the Law on Defence and the National Assembly, at the same time proposed that the 23rd Extraordinary Session should be extended by that matter. You have received a proposal for enlargement 3. 11. 2015 and published on e-club. Does the representative want to speak to the extension candidates? [[No, no, ……]] Would you like a word from the government? [[No, no, ……]] Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude by presenting my views on the proposal for enlargement. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 68 votes against 5. [[The vote was 68.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The Assembly will consider the voting enlargement to be the 4th item of the agenda. We are moving to a full vote on the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as received by reference and by an extension adopted. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 69 votes against 4. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I take it that the agenda for the 23rd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. On the eve of the day, this proposal recommended to the Government of Croatia, in relation to the irrefutable scales at the border of the Republic of Slovenia, and the request for the opinion of the President of the Republic of Slovenia on this question. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted to the assembly by a group of 28 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. With regard to this proposal, the Group of 21 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. On the basis of Article 107(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 223(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Group of 28 Members with first-signed Mr Jožet Tank also proposed that the National Assembly request an opinion on this matter from the President of the Republic of Slovenia. In agreement with the 42nd meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly 2. 11. In 2015, the proposal for a decision was revised in writing by the representative of the proposer, within which the National Assembly wished to obtain the opinion of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, from three days to 24 hours. A written correction of the draft decision was received yesterday 3. 11. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official On the basis of the decision taken at the same meeting, the College of the President of the National Assembly shall give the floor first to the representative of the proposer, Mr Jožet Tank, for a further explanation of the proposal to obtain the opinion of the President of the Republic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u2	Thank you so much for your words and a nice greeting to everyone. It is unusual, in fact, even inconceivable, that within a few months of this migratory crisis, the Government has not required any debate in the National Assembly on this key issue of the European Union and, of course, the key problem that is increasingly pressing Slovenia. Slovenia has recently become a key caravan route, not because of Karavank, but because this migration flow or migration caravan has been channeled across Slovenia due to blockades at other borders. He warned that this would happen, it was enough, both domestic and foreign, to deal with serious problems everywhere this refugee wave was also known, and it is particularly bad where this migratory wave ends. Regrettably, those who need help are in a minority of families and individuals from war areas. Most of them are extremely aggressive groups, but they do not choose funds. Although information on this is highly filtered, it is not possible to go beyond these facts. Slovenia faces problems at the northern and southern borders, both situations are unsustainable for uniformed security and defence forces, for humanitarian workers, for the health system and especially for residents. The problems are mainly because our government's response was inadequate and significantly too slow. It may not be until next week at the table that measures could have been taken two, three months ago, but it is. The initiative for action was considerable, a large majority of these were proposed by our President, Mr Janez Janša, but government responses were cynical, underestimated and assessed as non-state-making. Slovenia would already be in a significantly better position if it followed foreign models. With only a few days' delay, we could copy Hungary's actions. This has not happened and therefore the main flow of migrants has also been directed through Slovenia. If the situation at the northern border, at the border with Austria, is exacerbated, Slovenia will at least temporarily become the main migrant station. If this happens, the situation will be particularly exacerbated and costs will reach more than 100 million euros per year. The fact is that the security capacities of Slovenia are very limited and reflect negative measures against the military and police in recent years, and according to information, the government has also recently rejected international assistance offered. Therefore, it is not possible to provide for the Schengen regime at the border. We are witnessing the absurdity that migrants — including many who were involved in war cases — are far easier to cross the Schengen border than persons or passengers with documented documents. The call for this extraordinary meeting is necessary because of Cerara's irresponsibility. However, the fact is that the President of the country has also been involved in the resolution of the migrant crisis. He recently visited Belgium, where he used his talks in particular to present the current situation in Slovenia in connection with the migration crisis, which was a commendable act, but unfortunately the President of the Republic did not take advantage of his constitutional power to speak with initiative also to the National Assembly and to present his views on the resolution of the migrant crisis. Therefore, we believe that we must take advantage of this opportunity, which also gives us the constitutional authority to ask the President of the State to answer or clarify the important social issue that the President of the Republic should do, especially since he is the Commander-in-Chief of the Slovenian Army and is already involved in all these matters. Today you have the opportunity to vote, with the support of the proposal of the signatories, on the request for an extraordinary meeting, to receive the opinion of the President of the Republic. His views and initiatives are certainly relevant and I think it is right for the Government to then hear what future scenarios are like to address these issues. I hope the coalition will support the proposal of the signatories. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u3	A presentation of the views of the delegations on this proposal follows. The text is given by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jernej Vrtovac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u4	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government, ministerial assembly! The migration crisis is the biggest current problem facing countries on the so-called Balkan route, in which the Republic of Slovenia is also trapped. The daily crossing of the state border between Croatia and Slovenia means several thousand migrants, and such a massive migrant wave certainly means some kind of emergency if you want to, if not already in the entire country, at the entrance and exit points of this migratory wave. In particular, the wave of migrants in the border areas has greatly affected the daily lives of local people, and the mayors of the border municipalities are also very much reminded. Residents could not drive children to school, they could not access a doctor in the way they could have done it before, farmers could not access their lands, cross-border labour migrants could not unhindered crossing border crossings. These are all the facts facing the Republic of Slovenia. The existing human resources potential of the police in our country is not controlled by such a massive migratory wave. Assistance from the military is therefore needed, but the last amendment to the Defence Act, which would give the military some police powers in relation to border protection, is being put in place. Given that limiting the influx of migrants into Germany and Austria is only a matter of time — more days or weeks than months — we will be able to become the so-called pocket in Slovenia within a few days, in which there will be more than 10 000 or perhaps some 100 000 migrants, which will certainly mean a truly difficult situation, in our opinion a rather real emergency. The President's office is the highest position in the country. Under our constitutional order, the President of the Republic is also the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces. In Novi Slovenija - Christian Democrats, we are convinced that the President of the Republic should speak not only to the National Assembly but also to the citizens and explain Slovenia's readiness to deal with the situation. If we have not already seen his public appearance by now, it is certainly the right time for him to come before the National Assembly and explain our country's readiness to manage the situation in the coming days and months, when even the exacerbation of the migration problem in our country is expected. Members of the New Slovenia Group will, for these reasons, unanimously support the procedural proposal to obtain the opinion of the President of the Republic on the migration issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u5	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, for her by Dr Simona Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greeting, President of the National Assembly, President of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, government team! I would like to say that, since the refugee or migrant problem in the Republic of Slovenia has emerged as a major challenge and, at the same time, a major test for this country, the current authority, both the Government and Parliament, has responded intensively and counter-response to it. If I speak only on behalf of the response of the National Assembly, let me remind you that we have already had or have held an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on this subject or on the content related to this subject. Let me remind you, it was one. 9. To date, 12 working-body meetings have been held to address the contents of the refugee or migrant problem and to which representatives of the Government have been invited to give us explanations, answers and that we have also helped them to draw up recommendations and messages that they have transmitted to the international community. It is also important to point out that there were 6 meetings of joint working bodies. In this context, there were also two meetings convened by the opposition parent body, the Commission for Security Intelligence. It is also worth mentioning that up to now 17 questions have been raised to the Government or individual ministers, all of them from the opposition, addressing issues related to refugee or migrant issues. Two meetings of the National Security Council were convened. It is true, however, that so far in the National Assembly we have not taken advantage of the possibility afforded us by Article 107 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia to forget the President of the Republic, to mention the current content of which, as it were said, the executive part of the government, namely the government part, and the Parliamentary National Assembly, they are already very actively discussing. For this reason, in our Group of Members, we support the proposal put forward to invite the President of the Government to present his position or opinion on the content mentioned above. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u7	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u8	Thank you again very much for your word. In the previous position, it was said that the National Assembly was quite active in this area. More or less, all that was dealt with in the National Assembly, either at meetings or at work bodies, was dealt with at the request of opposition parties. Thus, the government did not come forward proactively in this work, but did not try to inform the National Assembly about the foreign policy situation, the internal problems, the security problems, but all of this had to be obtained from the Government – the answers to these meetings were very incomplete. The President of the Republic has a special status in this country. After the constitution, it represents the Republic of Slovenia at home and abroad. In recent years, he has also devoted himself to activities related to the refugee or migrant crisis and has conducted some interviews, perhaps formal and informal. I think it is right that we also learn from the President of the Republic what his views are and, after all, whether these views are in line with the views of the Government. This is a fundamental question, because things are going and they are happening on multiple paths. In short, the President has a role to play, and the Government has its activities and external, defence and internal ministers. It was not observed that there would be any coordinated action in this area. The problem is also that the President of the Republic has not taken advantage of his constitutional capacity. I could myself propose a debate on a fundamental European problem, which is also a growing Slovenian problem, and it has not done so. I think it is right for Members to gain these views, especially because the President of the Republic is the Commander-in-Chief of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the Slovenian Armed Forces, and is increasingly involved or will have to be involved in resolving border and other security issues related to the refugee crisis or the migration crisis, and everything that is on board. Our parliamentary group will vote in favour of the proposal to give the President of the Republic a word and an opportunity to express and clarify its views on these issues. And I hope that the President of the Republic will make good use of this opportunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u9	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr. Franc Jurša has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! The state authorities, especially the police, civil protection and the military, now also with the help of humanitarian organisations and volunteers, are managing the crisis situation at the border caused by a large number of migrants from the Middle East. The situation seems to be slowing down after the main players have sat at the table, despite the fact that the daily migration of migrants is still very high. It is not true that the Government has not provided information, since the Ministry of the Interior has daily informed the inhabitants, and we are also residents of this country and we have received information. The President of the Republic represents the country and is the Commander-in-Chief of its armed forces, but does not have specific powers to act on his own. The Constitution and the fact that he was elected in direct elections give him much moral strength. It is therefore important that, in the face of such a widespread crisis, which may become even more acute, it makes clear how he feels about this issue and what he will also do to have a positive impact on the resolution of the migrant crisis. Thus, the National Assembly offers him the opportunity to be actively involved in our country's efforts. We therefore demand that the National Assembly give its opinion and views on the migration issue, in particular on how to protect our borders and security in the country and also on what it will do to ensure that Slovenia receives the most expensive assistance from the international community. In view of the urgency of the situation, we call on the President of the State to forward his opinion as soon as possible to the National Assembly. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we support this proposed decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u11	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u12	Thank you very much, President. President of the Government, ministerial council! The policy towards the refugee crisis cannot and must not become a policy of exclusions, discredits, fostering diversity and measuring power among domestic political actors. It's too serious. Slovenia is so much more sensitive to any, including internal, political reaction, because of its position just ahead of the borders of the so-called promised countries. This is not just between our walls here in the hall, what can quickly be painted on the ground, among our people, among the refugees and, of course, among all the employees. Slovenia is already too divided. The multifacetedness of this crisis thus dictates the resolution of many content, not only how we will deal with the new thousands of refugees every day. We have the issue of solidarity, security, logistics, the lives of all our citizens and citizens. This covers the issue of our role in the European Union and the role of the entire community in the international environment, and therefore the refugee crisis must be put into the context of the pan-European issue, which requires us as small and sovereign Member States of this Union to take an even more unified approach, both from the outside and from the inside. Slovenia has responded well to this crisis in this short time, the Prime Minister of the Government and all three ministers – foreign, internal and defence ministers – have done well. Despite the various political interpretations of the day and, most importantly, the great efforts of our people are worthy of refugees together with appropriate security measures, and we are also facing this crisis. The call made by the SDS and all signatories to deliver their views on this crisis, including by the President of the Republic, is thus welcome. I hope, however, that the call is in the context of rescue, not in the context of the further political complication of this crisis. While we will support this decision, the Social Democrats expect that at the end of this meeting we will have a reason, not less, to unify ourselves, as we say, in the resolution and not the entanglement of this crisis. We must not allow the refugee crisis to be misused for the emergence of a political crisis in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u13	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for which Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. A respected council, a respected government! In this mandate, we have not yet seen the President of the Republic as a speaker in the National Assembly. Even in the public eye, it is only a few times defined on current issues. In the United Left, of course, we do not object to the proposal to define the current issue until this time. It would be good if he did it more than once. Although we do not support today's session in the United Left. Why? It is in public that the situation in Slovenia is so extraordinary that it requires daily emergency and extraordinary meetings of the Committees of the National Assembly and the National Assembly as such. There's no such situation. There are some problems in certain local environments, there are problems with logistics and coordination, but the National Assembly must act in the direction of reconciliation between citizens and citizens, not in the direction of raising additional fear. He has to look for solutions, not sow fear. We expect the President of the Republic, on the one hand, not to follow the example of the applicants, and on the other hand we expect him to clearly condemn the hate speech that we have been witnessing in this house in recent days, that is, in the National Assembly. To this day, he has not identified himself. As we say, we will support the proposal in the United Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u15	We have completed our presentation of the views of the groups of Members and are moving on to decision-making. We vote on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly requires, pursuant to Article 107 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, that the President of the Republic of Slovenia deliver an opinion within 24 hours on the current immigration problem in the Republic of Slovenia in terms of the protection of the borders of the Republic of Slovenia, the provision of security citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, the capacity of the Republic of Slovenia to protect the state border, the necessity of international assistance and the state capacity to provide for immigrants. We're voting. 79 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Since the procedural decision has been adopted, I interrupt the first item of the agenda, which will be continued by 2 p.m. tomorrow when we receive the opinion of the President of the Republic. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, this is a bill on the amendment of the law on organization and police work by emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior, Mag. Spring Györkös Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u16	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The bill amending the Law on Organising and Working in the Police seeks to satisfy the need for the human resources strengthening of auxiliary police units. The consequences of excessive savings in the past years are shown in different ways in the police as a key vehicle for national security. One of the emerging forms of human resources malnutrition of police structures is also shown in relation to the auxiliary police, which in the past has been attributed too little importance. This institution is particularly important in the context of the current situation. In the past, there has been a need to call for a back-up at certain events, which is even more pronounced and more justified in the context of the migration crisis. The starting point for the amendment is the work and management of an extremely large number of migrants by the police, which makes it necessary for the police to be able to increase the number of auxiliary police officers, of course, while making use of the human resources potential already available at this time. The amendment proposes to increase the age of auxiliary police officers to 60 years for both men and women, which would then lead to a relatively rapid process of obtaining qualified, tested, verified personnel, given that strong staffing support to the police is necessary in the event of unforeseen events and that it is welcome to engage retired police officers and those whose employment has ceased at will and, of course, are still qualified to carry out police duties. This proposal also brings financial savings, but this is of secondary importance in the given situation. As a result of the 2010 decisions or the unfavourable financial situation of our police, there are currently 252 contracts concluded, a reduction in the number 4200 at the time. The police have already prepared a projection of the need for the expansion of the auxiliary police, which will also take advantage of the important synergies in the transfer of knowledge to younger generations. In short, the objective of this proposal is to strengthen the organisation and functioning of our police to better meet the security challenges, which is also comparatively legal in line with the regulations of other countries which also regulate this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u17	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. Lilliani Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u18	President, thank you for your word. Dear Members, Members of Parliament, the Honourable Council of Ministers! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government shall be held at its 27th emergency meeting. 11. In 2015, the draft law amending the Law on Police Organisation and Work, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration by means of a proposal for an urgent procedure, was considered as a working body. The Colleague of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 42nd session. 11. 2015 decided that the proposal for a law should be considered on an urgent basis. The amendments were tabled by SMC, Desus, SD and SDS members within the time limit. The Minister of the Interior, as a representative of the proposer in the supplementary explanation of the articles, said that given the current security situation in the Republic of Slovenia, which required the control and work of an extremely high number of illegal migrants, it was essential to allow the police to increase the number of auxiliary police officers as soon as possible and in the most effective way possible. This will be enabled by the adoption of the proposed amendment of the law by involving police officers who have retired in recent years and are still qualified enough to carry out the duties of auxiliary police officers. With well-trained auxiliary officers, the police would gain strong staff support for dealing with inappropriate events, such as natural and other accidents, when public security is in greater danger, in the case of state border insurance, in cases of emergency or war crisis, as well as in order to compensate for the disappearance of active police officers in police units for various reasons such as recruitment into special police units, the spread of the epidemic and so on. The Legislative and Legal Service stated that it had no comments on the text of the law itself. She commented on the amendment tabled by the SDS Group concerning the status of auxiliary police officer, which could be obtained by candidates who are still in the course of training. It expressed disagreement with the proposed solution, as this could in practice constitute a violation of the principle of equality, since it would mean that both those who are already qualified and those who have not yet obtained these qualifications have police powers. In the debate, members and members of a committee of opposition Members raised the issue of the level of contributions envisaged or the determination of possible positive discrimination in the assessment of income and contributions to the pension fund to be paid by people with the status of assistant officer. They expressed their support for the proposed amendment of the SDS Group, which would help to create an even larger range of people who could help to improve crisis situations by also using non-police powers. Support was expressed for the proposed amendment of the law from the coalition groups, as it is a matter of reducing costs and enabling the activation of persons from already trained personnel who, due to the restrictions imposed in the past, could not be called up as auxiliary police officers. They pointed out that they had already witnessed events in the past, such as natural disasters that could trigger calls, so they saw the possibility of permanent regulation of the area in particular with the proposal for these amendments. The Committee then adopted the amendments of SMC, Desus, SD to Article 1 and then voted together in all articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended Act is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and amendments are included. The updated proposal is, of course, an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u19	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Anita Kolesh.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u20	Honourable President of the National Assembly, esteemed ministers, dear colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to introduce you to the proposal for changes to the organisation and work of the police adopted by our Group of Members. The proposal for a new law on the organisation and work of the police, which we are addressing, is primarily aimed at ensuring better organisation and functioning of the police by responding effectively to all security challenges. The fact is, in the past, the institute of an auxiliary police officer or a police officer has paid less attention, even though they have been an important part of ensuring the security of the state. We must therefore stress that auxiliary police actually contribute to an effective and rational way of organising an internal security system. For various reasons, Slovenian police have experienced a marked reduction in the staffing structure in recent years. Since 2007, there has been a 15 % reduction in the number of employees. This fact has also prompted the Government's proposal to speed up with the proposal for these legislative changes concerning the organisation and work of the police. In Slovenia we have had a number of predictable and unpredictable events in recent years. Major sporting events can be considered among the first, among others worse natural and other accidents, which disproportionately increase the need for an assistant police to replace police officers from the special police unit and perform less demanding tasks. In the search for all possible forms of strengthening police personnel structure and for the effective functioning of police work, especially due to the current security situation in Slovenia, the call by the auxiliary police to replace police officers working at border crossings and collection centres is an appropriate and practical solution. Therefore, the proposal that women and men may participate in the auxiliary police by the end of the calendar year in which they are 60 years old is a reasonable limit. We also support the equalization of the age limit for both sexes. The work of police officers has always required good and constant physical and professional skills, so they are afraid that the auxiliary police will not be able to do so, surely not. In addition, the Auxiliary Police Regulation provides for a commission to verify compliance with the conditions and also provides for the verification of the psychophysical ability of candidates to work in the Auxiliary Police. The bill also provides an opportunity for retired police officers to remain active, as these are tested and verified personnel. They are also extremely important for the transfer of knowledge and experience to younger colleagues. I think that's an aspect that we've completely ignored in the last period. For a better regulation, we have adopted an amendment at the meeting of the parent working body, which excludes the restriction on the work of the auxiliary police officer, which applies to other beneficiaries of temporary and temporary work under the Labour Market Regulation Act. Thus, after this arrangement, auxiliary officers can spend more than 60 hours in the calendar month. All of these are very important reasons for the adoption of the proposed law, so the Members of the Modern Centre will support the proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u21	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u22	Thank you very much. If I take this law, which is before us, I take the general legislation that speaks of the retirement of police officers, and if I add to it, of course, the ZUJF, then one would say that we have a ministe. The table in Styria, we say the dishes where we put everything in the pot that we have left, and then somehow we get some soup that we eat with a spoon, and we don't even know what it's going to be like. Why did I start with such an introduction? We have exactly what I said in this area. General legislation, which deals with the retirement of police officers in connection with police law, requires that police officers retire at 53 years of age or 55 years, where there are transitional periods. The legislator said it was necessary because police officers were used up at the age of 53 and could no longer work. Then they can't work anymore. Then let's add the ZUJF, which in fact definitely decides and says they have to retire. Now there's a law before us that says we'll take them back to bat. See, that's why it's a ministra and nothing else. On the one hand, we are adopting laws where we are talking about having to go to peace, that they are completely wasted, and now we are going to take them back with this law. But also this law, because it is part of the legislation that solves the issue of the security situation in the country, we will not oppose it, even support it. However, it would be good if this law were likely to be in the framework of some other laws such as the Defence Act, the Public Finance Act, the Budget Enforcement Act and some other laws adopted in May. If such a law were passed in May, then we probably wouldn't be doing what's happening to us now. Where, then, do we have any guarantee that Radio Student will not call for signatures tomorrow and this law will fall for us? I wanted to say that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is absolutely not prepared for anything concerning the migrant crisis. All those who talk about how they take action in time – I am sorry that there is no Prime Minister here to tell him - and all those who say how we react in time are wrong because we do not respond in time. It would be timely for this marriage to be at the table of May, along with most other laws. But you're lucky. You are also fortunate because you are going through laws with the help of the SDS or with the help of the opposition, so you can give a deep gift to the opposition. In fact, through a two-thirds law, which is a very interesting thing, of course with our support, because otherwise you wouldn't, you know that. But in such situations – because I have only a minute and a half left – a person would expect some from the Prime Minister, not to say consonantly, but a normal move. But not the kind of moves that our party president makes when he sends him eight suggestions on what needs to be done, but then I hear from coalition Members that all of this is actually done, and the President of the Government calls it an attack on him, on the government and on non-stateliness, and I don't know what it's all about. I don't know if he's purely normal. Therefore, of course, it is also a question of whether the legislation we adopt in this way is consistent legislation. This legislation is not consistent, dot, amen, for sure, it is a fact. Also in this law, look at what the coalition amendment did at the board meeting on the table. The coalition amendment said that these officers who would eventually return to work would be able to work 180 hours or more because the limit was only 60 hours. It is said that we will give it up to 180 hours, but we have not said anything about how to reduce the pension because of this, we have not said anything about how to pay the income or whether it will be worth it to them to get to work or not. I think that many will choose "no" when they figure out how much their pension is going to go down and how much they're going to pay, because then they'll find that they're not worth going to work. But that's all because we're campaigning because we're working irresponsiblely and because we're working on a chorus. Only when someone knocks do we crash. But nevertheless, given the constructiveness of the opposition or the SDS, we will support the matter, not because of you, but because of the needs of the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u23	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Benedict Kopmajer is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u24	Honourable President, Honourable Minister, Ministers, Colleagues and Colleagues! The need for the recruitment of the auxiliary police to replace police officers of the special police unit has appeared several times, namely, these needs appear mainly in the event of natural disasters, major sporting events, and so much more so at a time when Slovenia is facing a migration crisis and police officers are extremely burdened. Thousands of migrants enter our country daily, and there are some more than a thousand police officers involved in controls, guidance and procedures related to entry. This was the most burdened day of all time, 21. Ten. In 2015, when 12 thousand 116 people entered Slovenia, there were 139 police officers on the ground. Police are responsible for ensuring the safety of citizens, while at the same time, together with all other stakeholders involved in the reception, treatment and assistance of migrants, ensuring that the multitude of people passing through our country is treated as decently and humanely as possible. Special care is given mainly to the most vulnerable groups: patients, children, women and the elderly. Given that we know that the police force is not sufficient for this number of migrants, it is imperative that we take such measures to increase their capacity on the ground. That the police have been humanely fed, there is evidence that police have experienced a drastic drop in personnel over the past few years. Thus, in the period from 1 January 2014 to 30 October 2014, the number of employees in the police force decreased by 303 employees. As a result, police have put forward a proposal to extend the Assistant Police Institute to 864 auxiliary police officers, which would coincide with the number of police officers in the special police unit. At present, 225 contracts have been concluded. The amendment to Article 101 of the Law on the organisation and work of the police thus proposes to be amended, and this article provides that women and men from the age of 18 may participate in the auxiliary police until the end of the calendar year when women are 40 years old and men are 50 years old. Of course, in addition to age, they must meet other conditions. The novel proposes retaining qualified auxiliary police officers until the age of 60. In this way, police officers who have retired in recent years could also be activated quickly, but they are still qualified enough to carry out the duties of auxiliary police officers. The change in the age limit will reduce staffing costs and increase the quality of the work done by auxiliary police officers. The change will allow for contracts with experienced police officers who will not have to undertake the envisaged four-month training. In the Desus Group, we believe that auxiliary police are an important part in ensuring the security of the country and that we will ensure rapid and good reinforcement of police personnel through this measure, so we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u25	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u26	Honourable President, Honourable Minister, Honourable Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! The refugee or migrant wave, which we have recently observed there at the Italian and Greek borders, is now here, at the border of the Republic of Slovenia with the Republic of Croatia and further with the Republic of Austria. For one thing, he is dealt with mainly by the people of the border municipalities and towns. It should be noted, however, that in doing so, we can thank the police, members of civil protection, the military, medical personnel and volunteers currently in control of the situation. The law on the tasks and powers of the police in Article 4 provides for fundamental duties of the police, including border control. If we recently thought that border control was just routine work, we now find that this is not the case. Especially now with regard to the massive entry of migrants from neighbouring Croatia into Slovenia and the exit of migrants into northern Austria. In order to manage this wave, the country has had to react urgently and to include all its resources, which are unfortunately undernourished. I'm talking about the police here, because today we're talking about police law. Unfortunately, it should also be recalled that, due to the European Public Sector Savings Orders, we have also neglected or severely impoverished certain segments of the public sector because of threats to the arrival of the troika. Our police, too. The number of police officers has been declining due to retirement or for other reasons, which may include stopping the development moments of individuals in this sector. In order to resolve or manage the state border situation and at the same time to fulfil the basic tasks of the police, which must include ensuring the security of citizens and the prosecution of crime, the government has prepared a proposal for a new Law on Organising and Working in the Police. The aim of this novel is that, due to the current situation at the border, police officers who have retired not so many years ago and police officers who have left the police at will could be invited into their own kind. This is about people who are familiar with police tasks and who could start their work immediately without additional training. The novel is also heading towards the completion of the auxiliary police. In this way, the work of those police officers who are now at the border and who are working full - time, often more than 12 hours a day, will become somewhat burdensome. On the government's or police's websites, we can see that everyone is working towards the most targeted and supervised entry of migrants, coordinated action with neighbouring security authorities, which has improved since the EU-Balkan Summit. Cooperation with other services that, along with the police, provide for the most dignified and humane management of the multitude of people who come across the country, especially when it comes to children, women, older and sick people. The Social Democrats will support the proposal for a new law. We are aware, however, that this is the current solution, which will need to be refined and perfected and developed in more favourable circumstances. Some are only now aware of the meaning of the word security. And we will add the word "peace" to the social democrats. In a safe country and in peace, we can develop individuals, strengthen the entrepreneurial initiative, and in short, we can develop as a society. However, we must be aware that these good things cost us something, so it is high time to stop recklessly saving.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u27	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for which Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, House of Respect! The police's staffing crisis did not arise with the arrival of refugees in Slovenia. It started with austerity measures, a demand to reduce the number of employees, a change in the conditions of retirement, cuts in various supplements. We've been understaffed in the United Left since the first day we joined the National Assembly. The fact that overall savings in all areas have long-term harmful effects is clear to all. Such negatives are most evident in times of special situations. Not refugees, but all past governments and coalitions that have recklessly allowed and taken austerity measures. When we discussed this issue for the first time at an emergency meeting of the Home Committee, on a proposal from the United Left, a year ago, we all agreed that the staffing pressure in the police was great. Over the year, we expected comprehensive changes from the government to enable the recruitment of thousands of additional police officers of the regular structure and the appropriate system and the organisation of the auxiliary police. The updating of one article of a law that we are considering today does not, of course, solve these human resources problems, but we are aware that additional assistance needs to be provided to the police without delay, so we will still support the proposal for a law in the United Left. It must be said, however, that the government's course of action, to put it mildly, is unusual for me not to use any worse word. First, we intervened in the Defence and Military Act, and now we are looking for an additional solution with the auxiliary police. We have been warning in the United Left that such a resolution is inappropriate and ineffective. The government should draw up an intervention law and regulate everything necessary in it, not only the possibility of additional auxiliary police officers, but also the possibility of new police employment, intervention purchases of necessary equipment, suitable compensation and work allowances, grounds for adequate health care, simplification of registration procedures and all other measures to be taken. The Ministry now expects to sign with an additional thousand 300 to thousands of auxiliary police officers with an amended law or with one article of the contract. Most of the time, as the speakers have already said before me, it is for retired police officers who receive low pensions. The question is whether retired police will be interested in signing the contract at all. Many, because of the fact that the payment they receive as auxiliary officers is included in the tax base, will not be decided on because it will simply not be paid. Additional earnings will require them to pay their income at the end of the year, which is not addressed by amendment. The second danger is the problem of replacing regular police with auxiliary officers. An auxiliary police force should in fact be what only the name says – helpful. Such a way of solving the human resources problem must by no means be used to replace the number of regular police officers. This literally means exploiting cheap labour and an excuse for further saving and limiting the number of employees in the police force. We will be able to hear an excuse from the government and the coalition that we do not need additional police employment because we have a sufficient number of auxiliary police officers who can jump to help if necessary. We certainly don't expect that to happen. In the United Left, we will support the proposal, although it is not more than a comprehensive solution. We hope that the Government is preparing an intervention law that will truly regulate everything we need, and that we will not deal with one of the necessary changes or one article of a law every week and continue to speak only and above all about fences, pardons, technical means that will by no means solve the situation we are in. In these debates, the debates we had on the parental boards are still the main mantra of saving, saving, saving. Of course, it is always necessary to save money with public finances, but to save wisely and optimally. It's about time we did that, too. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u29	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jernej Vrtovac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u30	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Let us introductoryly explain that Members of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be supported by a proposal for amendments and a supplement to the Law on the Organisation and Work of the Police. The solutions provided by the proposed law constitute the legal basis for the activation of a large number of auxiliary police officers who have adequate professional skills and experience in police work. But at the same time, it is worth pointing out our criticalness to the work of the ruling coalition in the area of readiness to face the migration crisis. In New Slovenia, we have given timely warning to the ruling coalition about the necessary preparedness, the migration wave we are facing today, and we have already requested an urgent meeting of the Committee on Home Affairs for this month in August. However, our warnings were obviously overheared, and some were not taken seriously. So we came into this migratory wave very unprepared. We have missed the time to prepare in time all the necessary legal, legislative bases for action by the military and the police in this crisis situation. For this migratory wave, indications have been showing up for some time, at least three months, when Hungary announced the closure of borders. We are deep in these migratory problems and, only today, on the door to the nose, when we are faced with the fact, we are adopting this adapted legislation. Let me remind you of the difficulty in adopting the Defence Act, and it may be that we will be in trouble with this law as well. However, I agree that the existing number of police officers cannot manage the security situation at the borders, while at the same time ensuring security within the country and also between individual refugees. So we are now in a situation where police officers have been at work for more than 26 hours without an intermediate rest, and we are already facing their psychophysical exhaustion. It is also a fact that we have too few police officers to carry out regular duties, that we have officers who are poorly paid, poorly equipped and overloaded. Multi-annual savings in police orderliness and work also contributed to this situation. When these additional burdens have arisen, however, we have faced the fact that security savings are actually questionable and we will have to devote significantly more resources to security in the future than we have so far. However, we can commend the efforts and humanity of the work of our police officers so far, both in their regular work and in their work on the migration wave, and we can offer sincere commendation to them here. It is also a fact that there is a high level of public confidence among public authorities, and that we will maintain this state of affairs, more resources will have to be invested, both for additional employment, improvement of material status, as well as for police education and training. Finally, let me express one great wish on the part of the New Slovenia Group, that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not approach the problems of the migratory wave in a partial way, that it comes with a new law from week to week, but that we solve the problem in an integrated manner. Of course, we missed much of the opportunity. This legislation could already be adopted when it was indicated that Slovenia would be faced with such a strong and large migratory wave. At the same time, another warning as to what could happen if, in the coming days, migrants were reduced or minimised to Austria. Slovenia will face even worse problems in controlling its southern border. That's why we're asking you to come with legislation. In New Slovenia, we will make all the good proposals aimed at ensuring security and ensuring a security aspect, of course, we will be happy to support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u31	The text is by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u32	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we will certainly support the proposed changes, and as in previous amendments, we note that if we did so in time, qualitative and quantitative analysis and discussion of this change could be better. We see that in these changes we have an active role for the police union, both of which point to discontent in the police, to great fluctuations and the situation is only getting worse. We had this bad situation years ago, they were worse in the spring, but despite the warnings we did not, or the government could not make an effort to improve the situation, to invest more money in the police, to improve both technical and other conditions. Why are we only adopting this law now? We had an extremely late-night session at which we adopted amendments to the Defence Act. There, too, we have been alerted to mistakes and the consequences are visible today when we are once again having a problem with the implementation of the law itself. This is probably how we will also have a problem with the implementation of these provisions. The package has not been fully adopted and only partially solves the problem. As such, the law must undergo comprehensive changes, for without comprehensive changes it will not be effective. If we look at the dissatisfaction in the work of the police, it comes mainly from wages, very low wages, they have always been paid for, technical resources are incomplete, they are spent, and we need to draw attention to security – because if technical resources are poor, there is no security – to environmental safety, health safety and everything else that we do not mention at all. The announcement of a police strike has long been on the table. They say it's an inappropriate time because of the situation. When, though, should police draw attention to inappropriate situations? Well, when we have a security situation, no one listens to them. I think that in this sentence they will use modern means of strike, which means that the sentence is laser-targeted. Some police in other countries do this in such a way that if pressure is to be exerted on the government, this sentence focuses on the government. Let those who are responsible for the police's work feel that way. So, focus the sentence on government officials, not that this sentence will be felt by others. These are modern forms of pressure, and I hope that the police will serve them, while Members of the Non-Aligned Groups support them. Ordering the status of auxiliary officers. Of course, it must be settled, considering other matters, which was not the time. Who, from cadets to students of the Faculty of Security Sciences, is suitable for such an auxiliary officer. We could have solved the subject more broadly if we took enough time to do so. The needs are complex and therefore the changes must also be complex. We are now solving the situation reactively, or in the spring or last year we could have solved it proactively. At the time when we have drawn up the decision, we have proposed another amendment to the bench, as colleague Gorenak has already mentioned, we have forgotten a number of cases and the question is how many police officers will decide on this status that we are now proposing. We have forgotten that many police officers who go to early retirement join political parties and are politically active, but the Constitution prohibits them from performing tasks if they are in political parties. That is why we are also eliminating this option in the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u33	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u34	Thank you very much. I think we have two amendments. Now I don't know, President, whether you have another amendment or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u35	I've got one.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u36	I think he's been announced or there's going to be an amendment tabled by the Non-Aligned Members. According to what I said before. Now I've had another couple of calls, one series of e-mails from former police officers retired. Some have already had a little recalculation of what it would be like to get a job now for 180 hours a month and what this would mean from the point of view of their income. The vast majority notes that it is not really wise to get a job because the difference between what someone loses in a pension, between what they pay their income and what they get out with such work, is too small. It is said that we would go to work for too little money at home, so it is likely that what I am warned that most will stay at home and will not decide to do so because there is no financial incentive, because if someone loses part of the pension if they pay the income, then As far as the amendments are concerned. What did we want to accomplish with our amendment? We have 200 at the southern border today, or I don't know how many candidates for police officers who don't have any police authority. It's like any one of us here gets dressed up in a uniform and goes on the road, stops a driver, and this driver is gonna say, "Who are you?" It's exactly the same situation. That's why we've given this amendment to these police officers who are in Tacno, who are actually at school, who are not yet police officers, to have such police powers. But yesterday we received some assurance from the minister that these officers would be withdrawn, that they would no longer be down there and that the school would continue. Then this problem is somehow solved. But the problem is not solved as pointed out by the United Left. This is a question of meeting the conditions set out in whole Article 44, and these are the conditions to be met in addition to the general law on employment in public administration. Let's just say that someone can't be punished under certain conditions, that I don't give details, that he's not in criminal proceedings, that he's not a member of a political party, and so on. You know that we in addition to the Italians in the constitution have an absolute ban on the membership of police officers in political parties and this is also the reason for the termination of the contract of work, or they must leave before they can be employed by the police. This is not a European norm, but it is Slovenian and Italian, but let's leave it that way. Therefore, a large majority or many, I will say, after they leave the police when they are retired, they go to political parties. Like Murska Sobota, it was the mayor and something else. And many others, we know that. It's up to these lower levels that we don't even know about publicly. What does that mean? It means that the United Left is right with Mr Dobovsk. We will support this amendment. Why? Because I think they really have to meet all the conditions of Article 44 as if they were first hired by the police. That's a fact. Otherwise, I don't think it's normal and it wouldn't be right. I don't know if that's possible, I don't know what the government will say, what the Minister will say, the coalition will probably light up what the government's official proposal is. But it's not that we want to help, but this help is usually like this. [[makes a gesture indicating rejection]] . Our amendment, and even more so the amendment of unrelated Members, must be said, points to a matter to be settled. I think this amendment needs to be accepted. Because what else is going to happen to us? To get inside political parties and some other criminal, if someone has been convicted. Because theoretically, let's say we had someone there on Ptuj if you remember who killed that innkeeper. Do you remember? This man is now sentenced to 15 years or so if I'm not mistaken. If you make a deal with him, he'll be fine. I know you won't, because he's in jail, but someone can be convicted, and you'll take him to jail. That wouldn't be right, so this amendment is fine with me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u37	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, chairman. I'll just talk about our amendment, of course. Above all, from the point of view that we have repeatedly pointed out that in the field of police, it is necessary to strengthen that everything must be done to help from abroad, and of course the Government has rejected this matter for a long time. Today, we are in the middle of a situation where somehow we need to involve the retired police back, we'll call it. If I go from the beginning. What a wrong world this government is running. In late August or early September, we discussed the Contingent Plan of the Republic of Slovenia to provide accommodation and care in case of an increase in the number of applicants for international assistance. It is said that in early September we first dealt with where we will give 500 asylum seekers. The number 500 was already the number when it was already broken in the stitches. Look, page 33, this is what she was doing in August. But then we were faced, and we pointed out that this is not the point of the problem, that the number of migrants coming through Slovenia is simply not going to be able to manage Slovenia alone. However, we were ridiculed, and today we listen to the public be intimidated and so on. The public, however, faces these problems and on various social networks, tells us back that we should do everything we can to protect them. But we've adopted a contingent plan, the Defence Act, today's law amending the Police Act, following some quick procedures, without some thorough analysis, or by what we're changing, we're actually taking steps forward. Of course, we will support these changes. But we have said that our amendment may be welcome, even if this moment may not be necessary. Perhaps what the minister predicts that the so-called retired police officers will report by asking yesterday, when we asked them if they are aware of what these contracts mean, is that they will still be hit at least on income, saying that the contracts have not yet been signed. [[…]] So, of course, they couldn't have been familiar with it. I think that the situation will be quite different from that of that first passion, when, of course, due to the belongings that are known to both the Slovenian Army and the police, they have shown great interest. It could happen to us that in two days we'll have to change the law again. Today these so-called cadets are already in the field, and they don't have any status. When we wanted to sort this out somehow, now you're saying you don't have to go back to cadets. One more thing. On the one hand, we will activate the police officers who have been retired for five years. In five years, many changes are made, including in individual regulations, even in the individual use of the various tools used by police officers, techniques and so on. These cadets are trained for it. Some were already on the ground, already using certain tasks and carrying out individual matters. Why exclude those who already have certain knowledge and who could certainly, with some of the powers they would receive, contribute to the situation at our most at-risk and challenging points? But no, every amendment that comes, we reject it. I am also pleased with the amendment of the unrelated Members, because it shows that they have somehow deepened themselves in the matter. I hope you will at least follow some of these proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u39	The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. I will try, unlike some other colleagues, to hold tighter points. According to some note, as far as I know, the contingent plan was accepted by the government, not us. I admit that or we had some concerns about the SDS amendment to Article 1. Mr Gorenak also said yesterday that people who know things should discuss matters. I don't know a lot of things, but I don't want to insist on ignorance, so I actually had a few conversations with people this morning who get to know things very well, like Mr Gorenak's ex-partners, colleague Bojan and so on. Mag. Bobnar said yesterday that there's no need for these 240 cadets to use that word to get them back to school, to have foreign cops come and so on. Given this amount of information that I have received in this relatively short time, I can tell the United Left that I see the need for this amendment to be accepted. We'll support this somehow. Some of the reservations we've had here are, of course, whether these young people are qualified enough. People who get to know each other in a professional way said that they were in some final phase of training. Dr. Gorenak has already said that they were already on the ground in some irregular legal status. Some kind of radio could be a problem, others, maybe Radio Fireplace, if we're talking about radios. In short, we'll support that. At the same time, there's something else I'd like to say. I hope the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State are listening. You're not listening. Can I have your attention, please? I found out that more than a year ago, 35 young police officers were waiting for a job extension. Within a year, the Ministry of Field Affairs did not move forward and this procedure has moved forward. It's about people who've been through all the training, all the checks, even the psychophysical ones, and they've been waiting a year. Among them is, for example, how much information did I get, a certified translator for Albanian language, which would somehow definitely be needed on the ground. I also learned that a few people want to reactivate themselves back to the police because they went on some missions, work abroad and so on, and then have a problem with these so-called psychophysical tests. It's not about some people who are domestically lined up and down, it's about people who are maybe 40 years old and a little older and on the border. Some "cooper" very successfully drains out what kind of leg jump they might not perform, but one of them wrote me in an email: "Maybe we're not as fast as these young cadets, but we're sustainable." It's not funny to me. I like to talk about specific issues. I think there's some kind of need for reflection here, too. Finally, these people are called upon to be tested, they are required to have documents about some of the education they have already done, and so on. I was reading a couple of those e-mails, and I was actually holding my head. It's bureaucracy in the most classical sense of how something can't be done. I hope this is where our brains meet us, and we're gonna figure this out. After all, if I use the term from the organization theory for the so-called hidden knowledge these people have. These people are, in their own words, fit enough. These young cadets would also need the mentoring of such people. I'd like to see this resolved somehow. Perhaps not tomorrow, but sit in the basement for about a week write some sectoral intervention legislation that will solve all of what you from the opposition or from an unrelated group, which is also in some way the opposition, we warn you. We warn some because we're not even laymen yet, so we've learned some things. Two gentlemen, regardless of their personal style, are top experts. Let's take this for granted, but not like sometimes I feel like we're here one day or not. Whatever the opposition says, you're insulted right now. I'm gonna stop here because there's something else I'm gonna say about the other amendment. We'll support the amendment. I hope that what I have said in this debate will also be resolved in a positive way. You know, the country isn't just one of our own, I'll say in my mother tongue, "fight" in this room. The country is some kind of system that has to have robust subsystems. The fact that the police subsystem is not robust is partly due to what Bojan pointed out that someone may have quietly wanted to privatise at least part of this sector. The largest refugee centre in Austria is managed by a Swiss company, boasting about how 21 million euros in profits were made in this Austrian refugee centre last year. Me and the United Left don't want that in Slovenia. Of course, we want a robust quality system that will not be thrown on the back by any crisis or crisis. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u41	Before I give the floor, I should like to point out that the amendments of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to Article 1 have now been published on the E-Club, so that both amendments to Article 1 are in the debate, both the SDS Group of Members of the Parliament and the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Mr. Marko Ferruga has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State and everyone else! With these amendments and the Law itself on Organising and Working in the Police, we have different aspects and matters. But all that matters is that we get a larger number of auxiliary or backup police officers, as you wish, because of the conditions that are now with us. I think that's one of the things that makes sense that we have to deal with and confirm. That is why I am also grateful for the support from all sides, as well as for the various ideas and proposals that are coming. As far as the SDS proposals are concerned, I have also asked a little questions about these candidates. I also spoke to the Minister and Assistant Director-General yesterday, after I thought this idea of putting candidates for police officers in the auxiliary unit was interesting. But then, when I read the law itself, I found this answer, which is located somewhere in this 108th article, in which we actually refer candidates for police officers as taxpayers, and on this basis the Directorate-General can also target certain places, as they have now focused on these points, where assistance was given to police, of course without authorization. I think that this legal framework is somehow meaningful, given that these guys are still in school, but they don't have those powers yet, and it's very important to say that these guys actually had some opportunity to come to the field, to see on the face of the city what it looks like, even though they didn't have the authority, and those who worked in the police also know that all the candidates, when they're done and they get the authority, are always married to a colleague who has these powers that are older and who has some experience. I'm just looking at it as some kind of addition to these help cops. As regards this 44th article, which was proposed by the Non-Aligned Members as an addendum, it makes sense that we must be concrete as regards the same Article. There are seven points listed here, and these are: psychophysical ability to not be punished, not to have dual citizenship and not to be a member of political parties, which is, say, this aspect, which is possibly a little bit unusual, which is what Mr. Gorenak and Bojan also mentioned, that it can be a little questionable here whether these people will then engage. But when we actually look at the matter, it will be reviewed for every ex or retired person, it will be on a list, and if a person says that he is in the party, it is unlikely that they will be able to make this contract. It's probably also a question about whether they'll be worth it or not, but I understand the government and the minister, too, that they'll make sure that these people get paid for what they're doing. Not to take anything away from them, or to be a manca with a pension or anything. I understood they'd be working on it, but now I don't know, the secretary can tell us, but I think that's fair, because these people are actually coming to help the country. Here is one of these aspects that we should clear up. It is about getting a professionally trained staff, so that in a very short period of time we can get people who know how to do their job, that at some stage the country also has a financial savings, because they do not need to be specifically trained, and also the level of efficiency will certainly increase. I think all of this is to support and I am grateful to all the customers here that we are aware of this important moment, that we need to support and move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u43	Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u44	Thank you. To supplement and explain the amendment. After this debate, it is not clear to me what we want. Do we need these extra cops or don't we need them at all? Is it really behind that this is a matter of privatizing security and ultimately making a lot of money because of this security situation? If we support these matters, then certainly all the amendments are welcome. If, on the one hand, we have found that the military is given additional powers, which we do not yet know what they are, but we do not know whether the soldiers are qualified and educated for these powers. I don't think so. Now we have a problem with Dr. Gorenak's colleague, where they say they don't know if they're qualified or educated enough. I believe, given the experience they have, that they are much more qualified and educated than members of the military. This would take longer, perhaps, if these proposals for the education of these people were too little, because we have a whole bunch of students from the Faculty of Security who could only go on to further training and be suitable for such tasks. About the amendment. We are proposing an arrangement that, even for those who have gone to peace and are members of political parties, let us resolve to get a larger number of people who are able and able to carry out these tasks, it is said that more will come forward if we want them to. The second proposal is in terms of what is happening throughout the European Union or the whole world. Why the age limit of 60? In the criminal service, these people will replace people who go to the border and with their experiences can help solve the most serious forms of organised or other crime. So why limit 60, but if we raise the retirement age limit, some proposals are even up to 70 in Scandinavian countries? It is said that the proposal goes in this direction to gain more people by regulating the status of those who have entered political parties and to raise the limit by 65, because those who do not meet the psychophysical skills – as we know, the vast majority of police officers are sporty and otherwise very active and meet certain criteria – and will assess for themselves that they are not suitable for such a service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u45	The word has magic. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u46	Thank you very much. I hope the Minister will tell us what her opinion is about the proposed amendments. I do not think it is necessary to stress once again that we are investing them in order to make things better by our assessment. I think that the police have done even more at the border so far than they could have done, and they absolutely need to be helped in such a situation and do everything possible to make the situation easier for them. But I can't get past one thing and the Minister's statement. At the announcement of the police strike, the minister said she was in favour of her. That's nice and right, dear Minister, we support her, too, but you're there to sort things out and save things and provide the police with the conditions that are and will be worth their while. I also really expect the answer to this last question of mine, although it is not entirely in the context of the amendment, but at the end of the day, with this change of law, we could arrange a few other things, but you did not propose them. You're only opening a minimum of this law, and if necessary, and I've heard from you many times that it's necessary, this law could now do another thing. If he doesn't, because you're nodding your head, saying you're in favour of a police strike, I'm going to look again for this statement, which is truly extremely unusual. You're there to sort things out for the cops and the cops.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u47	Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! In the framework of today's law, I can certainly say that I will support it. I think that the amendments that I think are going in the right direction should also be examined very carefully. I myself assess that these solutions are necessary, but at the same time I wonder whether they are sufficient. For when we look at the explanation or assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the bill, it is very well written that with well-trained auxiliary police, strong staff support within the police is obtained for action on unforeseen events such as natural and other accidents, such as serious public security, for the protection of the state border, for example in the case of a crisis, emergency or war situation, as well as for the replacement of the disappearance of active police officers. These are truly extremely extensive and challenging tasks. And if we do a small analysis or review of developments during this last period when we are faced with the problem of migrants, one of the important shortcomings was that there was no good communication and transfer of information to the municipalities and also to local communities. This is something that should certainly be examined very carefully, and I think that, although procedures that are somehow built within the functioning of civil protection have been extremely well demonstrated in this process. Here this system has been built, maintained contact and it has to be maintained over and over and over again the mayors must also be reminded that it is one system that really needs to be monitored and not taken as something that can only function on its own. Therefore, with all due respect for what is currently being written — congratulations to both the Minister and the Secretary of State — the bill is written in such a way that it will not have any financial implications. The point is that there will be no need to further train staff, as this law will actually invite a large number of already trained police officers, who are actually retired. And here's this point that we always revolve around. And a question that I have raised several times in the last period, particularly in times of financial and economic crisis. There has been a dramatic decline in security resources and even at this stage, when we find that, in fact, the security of the country is on a strong test, we still need to take into account or seek solutions that do not increase financial obligations. However, the fact that a fiscal rule adopted by a two-thirds majority cannot apply in this situation. In my opinion, it is also a fact that, within the EU, when we find that there is no built security policy, that there is no built foreign policy that can work effectively in the field of migrant issues, we cannot talk about the fact that we must continue to respect the Maastricht criteria. So these two aren't working together. Reducing public spending to meet the Maastricht criteria and fiscal rule enshrined in the Constitution in Slovenia does not go hand in hand with ensuring the security of the country. Here I think we're going to have to do one serious analysis and also talk about how to proceed. However, I believe that, in fact, in addition to this law, we should now take into account the Law on General People's Defence and Social Self-Protection and look at the articles on national protection, this is Article 173 to 186, and prepare ourselves as soon as possible for the adoption of a law that will legitimize national protection. What did national protection under this 1982 law do? She checked the identity of persons in an environment. It could have protected the premises and also prevented unauthorized persons from entering the premises, and it could have kept certain persons. It was also possible to inspect a passenger vehicle if it was suspected that dangerous objects or devices were being carried out and other tasks specified in the plan in accordance with the safety of the State. I think it's time to stop solving or respond to this situation after a drop. One drop was the amendment of the Defence Act, which I think was too fast, not sufficiently appropriate, uncoordinated. Today we are faced with the necessary measure to amend the law on police, but, as I said, too few measures to fully address all the needs that can arise in Slovenia. My advice would be that we are really trying to take this law into our hands as soon as possible from 1982 and Slovenia to re-law national protection. Then we will have organised people, from the level of the local community to, of course, the level of the country. If we do not do so, we will be overtaken and we will always wonder what is now, and all the measures that will be taken will be significantly less deliberate, less effective. Finally, we must be aware that we must, however, take care of our own safety, of our people's property, of the functioning of the economy and, finally, of the functioning of the country. Only with well-thought-out legislation towards the creation of national protection is this possible in my opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u49	The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. I am also joining the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. On the one hand, I am pleased to hear what he has started to say before me, because I have been trying for several days in the United Left Group to awaken the concept of territorial defence and national protection. Of course, not in the way of territorial defence as some kind of party army, which in some sense we can observe little in Croatia. After all, these systems have proved to be successful, they go from below, they're human. There may also be a need for a debate on the return of the recruitment system. You know, we're in the United Left to get out of Nate, but these are some other topics, and I don't even have that much time right now. However, I absolutely agree that if I were a little cynical, I could tell my fellow SD Member if perhaps, when the president was sitting up here, we could think a little bit more about what he is doing with this focus on the 'fiscal', we would not have this debate today, but it is possible to be smart back. What saddens me is that we have a debate here. The government is not responding. Finally, I hope that the representatives of the Ministry of Field will respond to these amendments and the debate that is under way here. However, as regards what the Group of Non-Aligned Members proposes, I have essentially one small problem or proposal. Bojan has made a very clear indication of psychophysical competence. Why not extend the working relationship, if any, to those people who qualify for retirement? It's not like we're moving them to a backup. This would be a way of urgently filling the human resources problem of the Slovenian police, which we are talking about a little too widely. But after all, he's a Bojan expert on this, so let's think about whether or not we want to make an amendment. I keep getting e-mails in the middle of it when people tell me cases. Let's say the case of a cop who was top-notch after all the ratings, and he went abroad, and because of some family stuff, he came back, wanted to reactivate, and for a year he was waiting for reactivation. Apparently, we have some big bureaucratic problem. With this mantra of saving, saving, saving, on the other hand, we have some big bureaucratic problem. We have some number of people who have been quality, who have mostly left police units, quite simply said, often for some financial, survival reasons, who would now like to go back for such and other reasons, even patriotic ones, and somehow from what I read here, one gets the feeling that the department or some officials there are working hard to prevent these people from coming back to the regular police force. If we have already found once that we have the problem of feeding the source, let us think about it, let us adopt some intervention legislation that will allow this area to be filled with the personnel that are ready to do so. As for those pensioners who were supposed to come back, many of them laughed at this proposal because they simply, in their own words, would not let such cheap financial fucks. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u51	Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u52	I'd just like to explain a little bit more. I've never changed my mind, I always have the same position as the President of the National Assembly as the Minister of Defence. I insist that security is an issue that cannot be addressed within a neoliberal policy, which actually has a drastic impact on the functioning of the country and on ensuring human security. The more things happen to us, the more it is confirmed that such thinking was right. Unfortunately, at that moment, my warnings may have been under-heard, so I repeat this over and over again, and I think we will come to a realization, in my opinion, in the short term, that these steps will have to be taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u53	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In opening, I would like to express my satisfaction that our debates are somehow converging towards solutions that are not trivial. In Slovenia, in Europe, in the world, if you want, we have a situation because of refugees, because of migrants, as in Slovenia alone, we have not yet had, and as in fact since World War II. We weren't ready for that. No one, not Slovenia, not Europe, no one, not the UN. This needs to be made very clear and in fact not to be squandered in words that may sound very hard. We have a dramatic situation and in this situation, in fact, the humanitarian crisis must also be found in this Parliament and in the Government. I don't think we are until today, and here I agree with my colleague Jank Webro. Solutions kind of drip, so ad hoc, on a chorus. We need systemic, some sustainable solutions, and in this context I would also like to call on the Government to communicate openly and honestly with us, citizens, whether it is a fence or a fence. In Novi Slovenija we do not understand the fence as the Berlin Wall, but only a tool to make it easier and more effective to ensure the safety of citizens and citizens of our country and the safety of migrants. You see what's been happening to us. We got migrants into the water, into the mud, among them women and children, of course, and so on. Is that security? No, it's not. Therefore, different approaches, including technical tools – and I will say again directly, with the fence – must be more effectively managed by this migratory river, this migratory flow. On Sunday, October 25th, there was a jumbo poster hanging at the European Commission's palace. You see them many times, with different content, and this one warned and told the public that on that day, 25th, at four o'clock in the afternoon, the European Summit on the topic of the western Balkan migration route. What vocabulary was used there, I don't know, because I wasn't there, but I was in the European Parliament on Tuesday, 27th, talking about it. I listened to Mr Tusk, Mr Martin Schulz, Mr Juncker and others. Yes, it is said that the dramatic situation is that this migration crisis is actually one of the biggest challenges in recent decades and that it has a terrible potential to destroy everything within the EU that we have achieved well. It happens to us that instead of countries talking to each other, they talk to each other, instead of solving problems, instead of somehow bringing us together, because we are in Europe to respect human dignity – it doesn't matter how we write which nationality is – and how we take solutions together. So in this House. The best solutions will be those we will take together, for which we will work together. Therefore, I am pleased that, in fact, the opposition here is somehow more active, every debate as far as the proposals are concerned, as far as the amendments are concerned. These two amendments that we have on the table, of course, require maximum attention, because they are not written to dictate solutions, but to make solutions better. How many cops do we need in the next few months? Nobody knows. But he'll have to have different scenarios. Even the black ones. It is said that this Balkan route will split, that there will be another route more west, meaning that, in order not to know, refugees will enter Slovenia more intensively in the western part of Slovenia. This means that we need bigger police teams, more checkpoints and so on. Yesterday, I reminded the committee of the psychophysical readiness of police officers, those who will sign contracts that will be called upon or if this amendment of colleagues and colleagues of the SDS is adopted, including cadets, if I may say so. In my opinion, colleagues and colleagues, there is a key psychological readiness here. Anything's going on. Migrants come from a purely different culture. They're coming from a war zone. When a person comes from a war zone, he is likely carrying this drama or tragedy within himself, and his conduct is certainly the result of the drama he has experienced. "Nobody leaves their home unless his home is the mouth of a shark," someone wrote. In this context, I conclude, and I would like to call on the Government to actually have several scenarios that may occur on our soil, in the Balkans, in Europe, so that we can manage this migration path more effectively and more effectively. This one will probably come back sometime. Are we ready for this? In what way will this reverse flow, if it comes to it, be managed? Once again, I urge the Government not to pay any money when it comes to communication with citizens, that it is necessary to make it clear, even if predictions may sometimes be dramatic. These are not jokes, but people need to know what lies ahead, and on the other hand, of course, they need to know how ready we are to solve problems. Therefore, I do not think that the Minister's statements or anyone's statements are relevant in this situation: I do not comment. It's not like that. It can't be that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u55	I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. Would the government like to? The Minister of the Interior has the floor, Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, President. First, with regard to the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here we can say, in principle, that some ideas are good. However, I think, in particular with regard to criminals, that it would be more appropriate to keep their experience through other systems, including education, because in the current situation and in view of the objective or the starting point of the postponement of the Law on Organising and Working in the Police, we are actually targeting a different category within the police. Well, not so much on criminals, but more on, if I may say, the classic police officers to carry out police duties, including the use of force and, of course, with all the other levers that police legislation gives to police officers. I must say that a good proposal has been made by Mr Trčko, concerning the extension of the working relationship between these people. Of course, this would be a very good basis for the transfer of knowledge through mentoring and in other ways to younger generations. As regards membership in political parties, it must be said here that the prohibition of membership in political parties is a constitutional category. So it's a category that applies to all cops. In the exercise of police powers, auxiliary police officers are equal to regular police officers, so no distinction is possible and is not permissible because the warrio is the same. It is therefore trying to ensure impartiality in the exercise of powers and the only possible solution in the light of the situation is therefore to change the constitution for all, but I do not think that such a way of partial resolution is appropriate for auxiliary police officers, given the very purpose of this arrangement. As far as candidates for State border police officers or candidates at the higher police school are concerned, I believe that, as was said on the committee yesterday, this would be an actual system of non-systemic regulation, in order to actually lay down the police powers before actually meeting the conditions for obtaining those powers. I don't think that's good. Finally, they have a working relationship with the police and are subject to labour legislation and cannot be regulated within the framework of an auxiliary police, which is governed by a civil law treaty. So this would be kind of a strange situation to actually have two contracts with the same employer. I also believe that this would interfere with the essence of the Assistant Police Institute in a way that I do not think is appropriate. Finally, given the situation, it would not take away situations that we do not want to see young people be given powers before training is completed, for which they may not be fully prepared. That way they could then be pushed into a situation where there could also be overstepping of police powers, because we know that this is a very sensitive area and that there is a great deal of caution here, given that a police officer is empowered to do so, whether through regular training or through a proposal for a law giving them this priority, must respond to the call for the performance of police duties, and in any case there is a prerequisite for competence, which must be unequivocal. I was also asked the question, or somehow the obvious, that I supported the sentence. I never said I supported the sentence, I didn't even talk about it. However, I have said that the unrealised commitments of the past governments are a legitimate requirement of trade unions and that I also believe that these commitments must be fulfilled because this is essential for the proper evaluation of the police profession, to take into account all the specifics of the police profession, and not least that we are beginning to move towards a comprehensive regulation of police status, because we know that it is only one of the problems. We have also put forward a proposal for amendments to the Law on Police Organisation and Work in a broader sense, not only in what we are regulating today, so as to improve the position of the police. However, given that the Ministry of Public Administration considers that this is a non-systemic dimension for other professional groups, the competence of the Ministry of Public Administration is consumed from this point of view. But it is true that these commitments will come to an end at the end of the year, and I also think that the government will be able to find certain solutions by the end of the year to address all these problems facing the police. However, I must say that I believe that, despite the fact that it has been only a good year since we took office, we have done something for the police in a short time. New jobs have been beaten, which are necessary in relation to the police's staff deficit. The budgetary perspective is also favourable and also somehow confirms one healthy direction of development, that in the coming years, however, all that has led to police stagnation in recent years can be remedied, and that we will start these trends or are slowly turning them up. The budget, if implemented in this form as set out, will allow for the smooth operational functioning of the police and, finally, more appropriate conditions for police and police work and safer work, given that both training and police equipment funds are available. With regard to the age stated in the proposal, I think 65 years, we believe that the age limit, as we have set it, is appropriate for 60 years. Somehow we don't think the higher one is. The inclusion of retired police officers among auxiliary police also simplifies a regulation on auxiliary police as an implementing act. The proposal is already in place and we do not believe that this provision is necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Ducky, you're out of time. Good. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 4th item of the agenda. I'm breaking up the 2nd item of the agenda. We're moving to 3. At the time of the day, this is in line with the requirement for the schedule of the legislative referendum on the law on amendments and additions to the law on the legal relationship and the social dimension, and to the defence of the proposal for a decision on the delimitation of the legal referendum on the law on amendments and amendments to the law on legal relations and on the social dimension. On 30 October 2015, the complainants, Metka Zevnik and Aleš Primc submitted a written request for the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. With regard to this request, we will consider the proposal for a decree on the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on that law, which has been drawn up and submitted to the National Assembly by the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. In order to further explain the draft decision, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mr Uroš Pikl, Chairman of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons yesterday, at its 20th emergency meeting, considered the requirement of more than 40,000 voters and voters to call for a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations under Articles 169a and 171 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It adopted a proposal for a decree on the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. Pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 22 of the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative, the National Assembly shall hold a referendum within seven days of the submission of the request for a referendum. The question raised at the referendum is: Are you in favour of implementing the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations adopted by the National Assembly at its meeting on 3 March 2015? For the day of the call for a referendum with which the deadlines for the tasks necessary for the holding of the referendum also begin to run, 9 shall be fixed. 11. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The vote in the referendum shall take place on Sunday, 20th. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official In accordance with Article 33 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative from the date of the invitation to tender, this is from 9. 11. 2015, by the date of the vote, shall not be less than 30 days and not more than one year. The date of the vote, until which more than 45 days have elapsed since the date of the referendum, shall be adopted by the National Assembly with a two-thirds majority of the Members present. In view of the above, the National Assembly may, by a simple majority, that is, the majority of the Members present, set for the day of the vote a period of at least 30 days and a maximum of 45 days from the date of the call for a referendum. On this basis, the voting day shall be Sunday, 20. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u59	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Jelka Godec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the court! We have before us the proposal for a decree on the invitation to a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. We only came to this step after the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia decided that a referendum on the Law on Marriage and Family Relations was allowed. By a decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, it happened exactly what we had pointed out in the Slovenian Democratic Party before the case came before the Constitutional Court. The prohibition of a referendum voted by the National Assembly on the Law and on marriage and family relations is an illegal act. The Coalition then did not listen to the arguments. Let me remind you that in March, after a reduced procedure, we can say with an argument of power, the Mauritian Coalition has adopted a new Law on Marriage and Family Relations. It's a children's coalition! has submitted a sufficient number of signatures for the referendum invitation to tender to the National Assembly. We can't just say enough, but a record number, over 85,000 signatures. When the President of the National Assembly set 23 March for the start of the 35-day deadline for the collection of certified signatures at administrative units and local offices, the drafters also tabled an initiative on the inadmissibility of the referendum. It's a children's coalition! At that time, in record time or four days, she collected a record number of certified signatures, more than 48 thousand signatures. At that time, the National Assembly also voted by 30 Members in favour and 21 votes against the decision on the inadmissibility of the invitation to a legislative referendum. So, we can say that Members of the great rainbow coalition did not interfere with the fact that the coalition for children is going! managed to collect more than 85,000 signatures for the referendum invitation to tender and more than 48 thousand certified signatures in just 4 days. In public, following a decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia which granted the referendum, there were also statements that the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia was substantively empty and that the referendum was allowed for procedural reasons. We cannot agree with this in the Slovenian Democratic Party. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has assessed the admissibility of the referendum, which means whether a referendum can be rejected on the basis of substantive reasons in article 90 of the Constitution of Slovenia. On the basis of the content of this Article, it has decided that the referendum cannot be rejected, since the new amendment to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations does not eliminate the unconstitutionality in the field of human rights. In the 51st paragraph of the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, the following explanation is made: In accordance with the fourth indent of Article 90(2) of the Constitution, it is therefore not permissible for a referendum to be concluded on laws that abolish unconstitutionality in the field of human rights or fundamental freedoms previously established by the Constitutional Court or the European Court of Human Rights. This also indirectly raised the question of whether the marriage relationship is the human right of two persons of the same sex. It is true that the Constitutional Court has not yet examined this issue and that this condition has not yet been met, and therefore the European Court of Human Rights has already judged the marriage as a human right of two persons. Only this has made it clear on several occasions that the marriage of two persons of the same sex is not a human right. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has therefore made a substantive assessment of the admissibility of the referendum under article 90 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which was its only task under the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Indirectly, it offered a substantive explanation that the marriage of two persons of the same sex could not be considered a human right, since it was not a violation of human rights which could otherwise be prevented by a referendum. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we agree that the question of whether the same-sex couples need to be given some of the rights enshrined in the laws so far must be taken seriously and responsibly. However, not at the expense of redefinition or revision of the community of men and women or of the marriage and of the non-marital community. The novela that will be the subject of the referendum will do just that. The marriage community after the novel will no longer be a community of husbands and wives, but a community of two. Such a change does not only mean extensive rights of consequences under other laws, it does not only mean adoption of children in same-sex communities, but it also means deleting the only definition of husband and wife in Slovenian legislation. Yesterday, we witnessed a confused work or coalition on the basis of a referendum decision. In the fact that the Legislative and Legal Service, at the meeting of the parent committee, expressed its concerns about the date on which the deadlines for carrying out the referendum were to begin, the coalition merely looked at the event and demanded the suspension of the meeting, without further clarification or any discussion. We have already proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party, at the beginning of the meeting, a date for the implementation of the 20 December referendum, which was also adopted by the Committee below. The proposed amendment therefore proposes to amend the date of implementation of the referendum by 10. 1. 2016 at 20. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Thus, in essence, the amendment of the date is proposed in accordance with Article 33 of the ZRLI, so that from the date of the invitation to tender in paragraph 6. 11. In 2015, a two-thirds majority is not required for the implementation of the referendum to take place for less than 30 days and not more than 45 days. The amendment to the date of the referendum was proposed with the aim of setting the date for the referendum to take place as soon as possible, according to the proposed date of the referendum. We are pleased that the coalition has supported this decision, or this amendment, and has also incorporated it into a referendum decision not to burden citizens with a referendum between the most beautiful family holidays, which are holidays around Christmas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Gantar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! On the basis of the provisions of the Constitution, the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative, and also the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly should, within the deadlines envisaged, present a referendum reflecting the democratic nature of the legislative procedure in the Republic of Slovenia. In the Desus Group, we have always respected this legitimate and democratic right, which has so far been served by the referendum's proponents. It is also true that we have repeatedly expressed concerns about the usefulness of some referendum initiatives. The abuse of the Institute of Referendum leads only to unjustified costs, of course, at the burden of taxpayers. In today’s case, however, it is much more. This is a case-by-case example of the Constitutional Court ruling on the admissibility of a referendum under the new 90th Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, according to which a referendum is not allowed to be negotiated on laws that eliminate unconstitutionality in the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Despite the fact that we did not have a uniform position in the Desus Group on the very contents of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, we expected, as always, that the decision of the Constitutional Court in a particular dispute between the National Assembly and the referendum candidate would be based on a well-thought, reasonable and non-political opinion. The decision of the Constitutional Court therefore surprised us a little, and at the same time disappointed us. However, we would not have been if the court had decided as it had decided, and if the decision were based on the content of the problem that was for us in order for the court to determine whether a new law on marriage and family relations of matter or substance was adopted, which eliminates contradictions to fundamental human rights and freedoms. Thus, we had to face a substantive blank decision for us, since the final opinion of the five judges is based on the assessment of the admissibility of the referendum only from formalistic or procedural aspects. Thus, five of the nine judges have drawn up a position that is likely to have an impact as a precedent on all future cases of similar decisions, namely that a referendum under article 90 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is not allowed to be heard only on those laws that abolish the anti-constitutionality already established by the Constitutional Court or the European Court of Human Rights in its decisions. But the decision of the Constitutional Court is here. Although this decision is unusual for us, in the Desus Group we respect it as it is, and will therefore be supported by the proposed decree, which describes the legislative referendum and sets the date of the start of the act for its implementation and the final date of the referendum. The practice of the National Assembly to deal with the decisions on the call for referendums has been to refer mainly to the content of the law itself, which is the subject of the referendum decision. In this regard, in the Desus Group, we consider that discussing the content of the law itself, which will be subject to a decision at the referendum, is contrary to the role it would have to play in this particular, procedural or, if you wish, technical act should have a national assembly. We want to do so, and therefore we now call on the organisers of any party's campaign to be particularly patient, carried out in the light of respect for fundamental human rights and freedoms, without deception, creating fears, using hate speech and stereotyped observations, and abuse of the ideological beliefs of individuals. We will support the decree and the proposed date of the referendum is not disputed for us either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Škoberne will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u64	Mr Vice-President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, and especially the warmly welcomed non-present representatives of the proposer! Clearly, the mass absence of those who proposed the referendum is also one of the serious indicators of how difficult it is to support such a referendum and how difficult it will be to stand on the side of those who feel that discrimination in modern society in the 21st century can still be tolerated. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are deeply disappointed that we are discussing this decision today. Of course, we do not want to oppose human will and referendum initiatives, but it pains us that Slovenian society is not yet sufficiently civilized, culturally and politically mature enough to understand that it does not decide on human rights in referendums, that most cannot decide on interference with the fundamental rights of the minority and that equality cannot be a matter of debate at the referendum, but can only be the subject of effective policy enforcement and provision, by the state and by all stakeholders in the community. Therefore, any debate on something that we have long been united about, that is, that freedom, equality and brotherhood are the fundamental values of progress and the civilizational existence of the European continent, is not a good traveller or something that Slovenians and Slovenians can be proud of. If the US Supreme Court on more than a hundred pages has explained that, in the case of the right to marry the same-sex partners for the fundamental constitutional category of equality which cannot be contested and which is rightly required by those who are discriminated against in society today, we will, in the 21st century, confirm today, with all possible and good examples, the ruling based on the Constitutional Court's judgment, which is what it is, and was adopted by five votes to four, eight different opinions and four opposed opinions on the judgment. And yet we will have a referendum on the date that was set before the most wonderful holidays, Christmas family holidays. Social Democrats hope that this will be the last such referendum and that these Christmas holidays, which will take place after the referendum, will be pleasant and beautiful for all families, including those not all of them today and those who are openly discriminated against today. Although it is frightening that we need to discuss fundamental human rights, let me point out only one substantive dilemma – on which side of development and progress we want to be. What do Eritrea, Somalia, Russia, Malawi have in common? Corruption, systematic discrimination, the use of violence to achieve political objectives and to discriminate against same-sex partnerships, an open state policy of discrimination, not to mention the level of living standards and wages. What do Norway, Denmark, Finland, the United States of America and Canada have in common? The open economy, the open community, the high added value, the independence of raw materials and the long-standing decision that discrimination must be combated and that it cannot be tolerated in developed communities. When you ask yourself, do you want your children and our children to live in environments more like Eritrea, Somalia and Russia or Norway, Denmark and Sweden? Social Democrats would also like Slovenia to know and be able to follow the example of the Scandinavian and most developed countries. We also firmly believe that if part of Slovenian politics does not have the courage and wisdom to stop discrimination, that Slovenian people, citizens and citizens will be able to do so at the referendum and that the right to spend Christmas holidays in the family circle will enable all, not only those who think they have the right to discriminate against others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u66	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! Today, the National Assembly is considering a decree that should not be. Why? He will call a referendum on minority rights for the majority to decide. Not only will the majority decide on minority rights under this decree, but the majority will decide whether we are all the same before the law. Most will decide whether discrimination against a small group of people is allowed in Slovenia. In fact, at the referendum, we will decide whether or not they go with the constitution of a guaranteed right for all. We will therefore decide on human rights and equality before the law, even though Article 90 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia has been amended precisely to prevent a referendum decision on laws that eliminate unconstitutionality in the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms or other non-constitution. But for the 5 judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, the will of the legislator is simply not important, and these 5 judges of the Constitutional Court have decided that the referendum can vote on human rights in Slovenia. At this point, of course, we need to draw attention to some of the facts, as the decision of this Constitutional Court has led us to find ourselves in an extremely contradictory situation. The Constitutional Court has already ruled twice that the Slovenian legal order is discriminatory to the same-sex-oriented. The National Assembly, as legislator, has decided to eliminate discrimination in its entirety. Since it was the only appropriate solution to eliminate existing discrimination, the amendment of the Marriage and Family Relations Act was also accepted by the National Assembly. Objections to the elimination of discrimination have initiated a procedure for the call for a referendum. Since the legislator amended Article 90 of the Constitution in 2013 with the aim of preventing the referendum from voting on laws abolishing the anti-constitutional situation, the same legislator duly rejected the referendum invitation by decision. The instigators appealed against the decision to the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court decided that the legislator's will was irrelevant and that the referendum on the Law on Marriage and Family Relations was admissible. The situation is more than confusing, the situation is contradictory. On the one hand, the Constitutional Court has already ruled twice that the Slovenian legal order is discriminatory to the same-sex-oriented and, on the other hand, the same Constitutional Court has granted a second referendum on the law that abolishes this established anti-constitutionality. That is why today we are considering a resolution on the call for a referendum. It is of particular concern that the Constitutional Court has adopted such an important decision by voting, with 5 votes in favour and 4 against, and with 8 constitutional judges giving a separate opinion. Despite the fact that the Constitutional Court has already adopted a single and substantive decision on the rights of one individual several times this year, this time too, a much larger group of individuals have not gathered courage for a substantive definition. The decision is based on narrow formalistic arguments, for which everyone who reads the decision and separate opinions will quickly find that they have been extremely torn apart. We are convinced that when it comes to deciding on fundamental human rights and equality before the law, the Constitutional Court should not be allowed to do so. The Constitutional Court thus communicates only one message by means of its decision. Voting in the referendum is possible for all constitutionally guaranteed rights which have not yet been decided by the Constitutional Court. Simple. Even if these are laws that have been subject to constitutional review for many years, the Constitutional Judges have not yet been able to make a substantive decision on them. That the intention of the founder in amending Article 90 was just the opposite, it is entirely irrelevant for the Constitutional Court, which is clearly reflected in the decision itself. The Court, which is supposed to be the chief and highest defender of human rights and fundamental freedoms, has taken the view by decision that it is permissible for the referendum to decide whether or not in the Republic of Slovenia everyone should be equal before the law, and thus overruled the main purpose of amending Article 90 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which provides that the decision on human rights and fundamental freedoms at the referendum is not admissible. Although Slovenia wants to be a modern and advanced country and likes to boast about it, our Constitutional Court certainly does not prove it. The decisions of the Slovenian Constitutional Court are clearly contrary to the decisions of comparable foreign courts, which have been decisive in defending equal rights for all over the last period, irrespective of sexual orientation. If we have recently been positively surprised by the decision of the US Supreme Court, which defined marriage as a human right, which also applies to same-sex couples, our Constitutional Court has apparently decided that in some cases whether we will allow discrimination or not, it is even permissible to decide at the referendum. With such a decision, instead of joining the countries that have fully eliminated the systematic discrimination against same-sex women, we have received another area in which we have fully and fully covered. Given that the Constitution is clear both about the prohibition of discrimination and also about the fact that human rights cannot be decided at the referendum, we in the United Left feel that the adoption of the decision before us today should not come at all. Therefore, in the United Left, we will not support the call for a referendum on human rights. But the fact is, the referendum will take place. In the United Left, we have our original proposed date, that is 10. 1. 2016, seemed much more appropriate than the present one, 20. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The referendum does not seem appropriate during the holidays, as they would like to allow as many people as possible to come to the referendum and support the elimination of discrimination against same-sex people. That this must be the main objective in determining the date comes from both the Constitution and the practice of the Constitutional Court so far. Nevertheless, we are convinced that at the referendum, however, the majority of electoral beneficiaries will decide that Slovenia is an advanced, democratic and tolerant society, because all, regardless of sexual orientation, are equal before the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, colleagues and all those who accompany this meeting today! We also hoped that on March 25, 2012, we had the last referendum of this kind, and we were wrong. This coalition, with the help of the left wing of the opposition, has adopted a law in this National Assembly which has a drastic impact on even 70 regional laws, as stated in the Constitutional Court’s decision. We are therefore pleased to see that, despite all attempts to prevent or slow down, today it is decided to call for a legislative referendum on the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. Following yesterday's tragic moves by the coalition in the process of addressing the motion for a ruling on the referendum, we were speechless. We have never seen such an unorganized approach to the preparation of such important matter. Such an approach shows either the ignorance of referendum legislation, which we find difficult to believe, or the great irresponsibility of those who should draw up a proposal for a decree in accordance with legislation. It is good that the Legislative and Legal Service has pointed out inconsistencies and has in fact forced the coalition to renounce attempts to delay the implementation of the referendum vote over all legal and reasonable opinions. Christian Democrats believe that there is a need for consistent respect for legislation on such sensitive topics, as not every government can interpret the deadlines for the call and the implementation of the referendum in its own way. Following the motion for a decree, a referendum will be held on 20 December 2015, which is also to be supported by the Christian Democrats. Why do we oppose the adopted law that is the subject of the referendum in Novi Slovenija? Because the adopted amendment to the law of the personal desire of adults places the fundamental rights and well-being of children ahead of them. Since it was adopted without a wider public debate, it terminated the relationship between a man and a woman and introduced a union between two people of the sex. The new laws adopted do not recognize the importance of motherhood and fatherhood, or of a woman and of a man for birth, upbringing and development of a child, as it introduces the possibility of adopting children into an same-sex relationship and does not allow adoption of grandchildren by old parents. Nor can two women or two men freely decide on the birth of children, since these freedoms themselves naturally cannot be exercised. In cooperation with the opposition's work, the coalition again overcame the voter's will, expressed in a referendum on the Family Code, which was already mentioned on 25 March 2012. New Slovenia does not oppose the regulation of rights and the situation of same-sex persons, but it is unacceptable for us to fully align same-sex partnerships with the marriage of men and women. It is also a disputed possibility for us to adopt children together by the two same-sex partners and we strongly oppose it. The Constitutional Court referred to the registered same-sex partnership as a similar but not the same marriage and did not require any equivalence. The Law on Marriage therefore substantially exceeds the obligation imposed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in the decision to remedy the legal non-compliance in the Law on the Registration of the Same-Sex Partnership. In our view, every child has the right to be raised by only one man and one woman, his father and his mother, to be satisfied with his mental, social, moral and spiritual needs. By a referendum vote against the law, we will reject the ideology of the social sex, which says that sexual identity does not depend on biological data. We Christian Democrats are convinced that the amendment adopted is also contrary to Article 53 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitution also provides for the marriage and family as a human right and fundamental freedom, and Article 53, paragraph 3, states: "The State shall protect the family, motherhood, fatherhood, children and youth and shall create the necessary conditions for this protection." We believe that, in the case of redefining the family as a basic cell of society, which will now be just a union of two persons, we can no longer talk about motherhood and paternity in the spirit of this constitutional provision. The fact is that mother and father, not two persons of the same sex, and thus their fundamental mission, this is motherhood and fatherhood, I say lose your purpose, for we will not talk about mother and father anymore, but about two persons — parents. The purpose of this constitutional human rights and fundamental freedoms is undoubtedly to protect the mother as a woman and father as a man. In addition to these reasons, in New Slovenia we support the request for a referendum on the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, also because the law adopted does not allow an objection to conscience for those who disagree with the solutions of the law for personal, philosophical, religious or other reasons. The application of the law as adopted would primarily affect public servants. Some radical cases of coercion can be seen daily in the media. Public officials, as well as other people, who for various reasons disagree with similar laws in some foreign countries, are subject to threats of financial penalties and some are also punished by loss of employment or even imprisonment. For Christian Democrats, this is unacceptable. Freedom of conscience is one of the fundamental characteristics of a modern democratic society and the possibility of objecting to conscience in different areas must be made possible. In Novi Slovenija we do not object to regulating the status of same-sex partnerships. The proof is that it was just 10 years ago, exactly 10 years ago, that we understood the sensitivity of this area and proposed a solution, a law that must have been a turning point in regulating social relations in Slovenia. We have not satisfied ourselves, and not every time we use the area of ideological warfare, which we meet before every election and during periods when the left cannot offer solutions to many problems in Slovenian society. We are discussing things that concern a sensitive minority, where there are still the most sensitive children. It will be weak to create new divisions and new prejudices that will mainly burden the environment in society for the benefit of children for a long time. Members of New Slovenia will vote in favour of the motion for a decree, because we are in favour of respecting the will of the people and for the referendum to be held. At the referendum, we will vote against the adoption of the amendment to the Marriage and Family Relations Act. You're asking why? Because of the kids, it's our answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mag. Alenka Bratušek will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! It is true that the decision before us today should not be at all. Human rights are the right of every individual and no one has the right to intervene. Nobody. No MPs, no constitutional judges, no one. The three of us, colleagues in our parliamentary group, voted on the referendum for the first time, in our conscience and full consciousness, in our conscience and full consciousness, and the five constitutional judges simply cannot change that. There's no way to ignore the fact that four constitutional judges, I don't know, just because women voted differently. So they agree with our decision. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today you will decide that at the referendum the majority will decide on the minority or the majority will decide on the rights of the minority, and this is not only inconsistent with the constitution, but simply unacceptable. Those of you who say you represent liberal and social values in the National Assembly, I think it's time for you to consider if it's right that this decree, which is before you today, will be supported. Not enough words are not enough to make it easy, but your pressure on the button will allow the referendum, so you will vote in favour and confirm it. That's how it is, dear colleagues and colleagues, who advocate liberal and social values. The three of us will vote in our conscience for the first time and in accordance with the Constitution, which says that interference with human rights is unacceptable. Unfortunately, I think that the matter will turn around differently, that at the referendum the majority will decide on the rights of the minority, but I hope that the vast majority of Slovenians want to move forward, want an advanced Slovenia, and that this referendum, which we will still prevent, will vote as it is right.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u72	Thank you very much, chairman. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, who are still in the Chamber, and those who listen to us, especially citizens and citizens! First of all, I would like to inform you that in the Group of the Parties of the modern decision centre of the Constitutional Court, by which the decision of the National Assembly to reject the invitation to a legislative referendum on the amendment of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations is repealed, we respect. For this reason, today we will also support the proposal for a regulation on the invitation to a legislative referendum. Now let me first address some of our observations and insights that have led to today's consideration of the law, and thus to a further final decision in the hands of the people. First, on the messages of the Constitutional Court. We understand two kinds of messages from them. First, it comes from the view of the Constitutional Court that the amendments to Article 90 of the Constitution, which prohibits the provision of a legislative referendum on laws that eliminate constitutional contradictions in the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms, refer only to the contradictions which have been found by me alone, I stress only by the Constitutional Court or the European Court of Human Rights, although that amendment of Article 90 of the Constitution has been adopted with a view to respect and respect, I emphasise, for all non-constitutions, and not only, I stress, the contradictions found. The content of strong arguments, both in favour and against such interpretation, is found in as many as 8 out of 9 possible separate opinions of constitutional judges. This diversity in terms justifiably arouses our attention and also our reflection, which, of course, must not deter us from respecting the Constitutional Court's decision, even though it has been adopted by a final narrow majority of 5 votes to 4. However, the second communication concerning the decision of the Constitutional Court refers to the procedural aspect of the decision rejecting the invitation to a legislative referendum on the amendment of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, which was unanimously confirmed by Members of the Modern Centre Party in the National Assembly on 26 March this year. This process of taking a decision rejecting the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum has been fully confirmed by the Constitutional Court. Moreover, the decision of the Constitutional Court confirms the urgency of such a procedure in order to allow the constitutionality of the referendum to be resolved as soon as possible at the stage of the collection of signatures and to allow the conclusion of the legislative procedure to be completed as soon as possible. Now there is something else about laws that eliminate unconstitutionality in the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms or other non-constitution. While we are committed to respect the rule of law and the principles of the division of power, we cannot go beyond the lack of a substantive communication on the rights of social minorities, which, in a strict procedural decision of the Constitutional Court, has completely diminished. We are wondering what, as a democratic society and a country, we are telling our citizens and citizens who, because of their same-sex orientation of their partnership, will formally not be able to conclude in the same way as the various sex partners. Are they different? Are they second-rate? They have to change because they're not the same as most? Do they love differently than most? Because of this difference, do they have to set conditions, restrictions, or even prohibitions of love that do not apply to most people and that most of them would never allow themselves? Thus, the same - sex partners will be prevented from expressing love in such a way that they formally share all rights and duties in good and bad. Is this the face of an advanced and forward-looking society? Is this the face of a society that can deal with itself in a respectful, patient and dignified way? In the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, we believe that through its history of smallness, Slovenian society has often learned tragically how painful and unfair it is to be a minority in which you are subject to different, poorer living conditions than all others that belong to the vast majority. How unfairly, repeatedly humiliating and humiliating it was when we had to choose the rights that everyone else has enjoyed all the time. Allow me to conclude at the end of our parliamentary position that the voice of the Modern Centre Party is and will always belong to respect for the equality of human rights, duties and dignity, regardless of nationality, race, sex, language, religion, political or other belief, material state, birth, education, social situation, disability or any other personal circumstance, that is also love. For all of this, our vote will also be devoted to equal love at the 20 December referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u73	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate on the proposal for a decree. Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor. Let's get Mrs. Susana Pretty Chimenka ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! New Slovenia is a party that wants the rights of same-sex partners to be regulated, and our Minister has also proposed the Law on Registration of Same-sex Partnerships in 2005 and this Act has been decided by the Constitutional Court not to comply with the Constitution at certain points. That is why in New Slovenia we also support the improvement of the existing law and the elimination of this constitutional non-compliance. We still regret that the Ministry, which has already prepared amendments to that law, has not done so or done so to the end, but the government coalition has quickly supported the proposal of the United Left, which completely equates the marriage of men and women with the same-sex partnership and thus gives him all rights. However, the right to adopt children is not a human right and we therefore oppose such a complete equality. I regret that we have been attacked in advance by those who consider ourselves very democratic, advanced, broad-minded. You accuse us of being backward, undemocratic, of taking the rights of minorities, of deciding the majority about minorities and similar things. I just don't agree to these kind of attacks. The right to adopt children is not a human right, and the marriage between a man and a woman who has been in force for thousands of years has suddenly become controversial. We just can't equalize something that isn't the same in nature and in essence. As I have pointed out many times before, however, we are for the status to be settled in a special law and to eliminate what is unconstitutional, which is therefore controversial. I think that too much exposure and engagement of different lobbyists or certain lobbyists puts the same sex partners or these groups of people in such a position that they are exposed to bullying, that we are talking needlessly about it here. I would prefer to talk about why we have a family crisis, why in Slovenia one woman only gives birth, I think 1.3 children, why we have demographic problems. As a result, our pension system, the health system, the functioning of the country is at stake in the future, but by then there will be even greater problems and unconstitutionality when we are no longer able to pay pensions and so on. I wish that in this referendum campaign – I am happy that the day before Christmas – we will talk more about these problems, which are the real problems of Slovenia. A perfect equation is not a real problem. We want them to have the right to regulate their status, but we all know what children need and that not a minority can decide about children who need a father and a mother. [[advertising from the hall]] Every day, exactly, every day. Let us see how many inequalities there are in society, not to mention young women who do not get a job, or to hire men more quickly because it is a high probability or a chance for a woman to go on maternity leave. That's unacceptable. And that women are still less paid for the same job, for the same job and with the same education as men. This is also very uneven and unacceptable. So that men still take the lead, I'm not saying that it's not always the fault of women who might be too little for that and we scratch. So there's a lot of inequality here, too. Not to mention how some demographics want to be solved by immigration, we are not interested in what the demographic picture of Slovenia is. These are real problems. How people will live in these refugee areas and can no longer carry out their activities and take normal care of their families. These are real problems. And if we compare ourselves with advanced countries, I want to compare ourselves with what measures we have taken to grow the economy or what legislation we have. Why aren't we comparing ourselves to Scandinavian countries here? No, but here we have to compare ourselves with some others who are at the bottom of the competitiveness scales. The progress of our country will therefore not be measured in the light of this referendum and the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka has the floor. Get Mr. Matjaž German ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, the distinguished representative of the Ministry! We have before us the proposal for a decree on the invitation to a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. Why? The Constitutional Court has – I will say that luckily and also expected – ruled that such a referendum is allowed to be. Of course, that is what we expected, and we have warned you about this many times. It is right that such a referendum is as soon as possible. That you would be in a hurry to call for a referendum, as you were in a hurry to pass the law. Let me remind you that the law was passed after a reduced procedure. Why? You referred to discrimination as systematic discrimination against same-sex partners. Usually, when the word "systemic" is in play, you always take a lot of time in the coalition to study, do some analysis, and there was no need for that. On the other hand, in this case, we cannot even talk about discrimination. The abolition of non-constitution in 2009 was not given to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, but to the Law on the Registration of the Same-Sex Partnership, in particular on the issue of succession. Since that decision, it has already been considered to be hereditary in the same way as other couples, that is, those in the same-sex partnership. Nor can we say here that it was some kind of unconstitutionality because it was abolished. Let me remind you what you've done so far. First of all, you have decided to adopt this law following a reduced procedure. Of course, most of this reduced procedure has been confirmed, as you further confirmed the adoption of this law. In the following, you have suspended the collection of signatures for the referendum, under the pretext that such a referendum is not permissible because the law eliminates unconstitutionality in the field of human rights. But respectable marriage is not a human right and the right to a child is not a human right, but I do not know why it is so readily emphasized in the National Assembly today. In fact, we know what Jelka has already pointed out, the European Court of Human Rights has on several occasions judged whether the marriage is two equally oriented human rights, and has ruled that the marriage of two persons of the same sex is not a human right. That way we can't talk about human rights in this case. It is correct to recall that 85,000 signatures have been collected for citizens and citizens to submit a request for a referendum. Eighty-five thousand! But here you are not interested in the will of these citizens. That within four days, 48 thousand certified signatures were collected in the administrative unit. In four days! Of course, you rushed to stop this gathering, but believe me, it is a record and extremely large number of our citizens and citizens, which are also why we are sitting in the National Assembly. That meeting was suspended by a decision on the inadmissibility of the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum. What did the Constitutional Court decide? That the referendum cannot be rejected, as the amendment of the law does not eliminate unconstitutionality in the field of human rights. Therefore, it is not a matter of eliminating unconstitutionality in the field of human rights. What was so unconstitutional here? Your ban on the referendum was unconstitutional, my dears. Of course, our arguments, we've already warned you, you didn't listen at the time, and I believe you won't listen to them today. Why do I think it is important that citizens and citizens decide as soon as possible on the content at the referendum? Because the novel that was adopted for the first time puts the interests of adults ahead of the interests of children. Where is the majority and minority that you like to point out again today? What about children's rights? Doesn't that matter to you or what? Why? Because it allows the adoption of a child in the same sex. This means that it actually allows for something that is unnatural. So, we're heading towards some natural path. And he shuts down the marriage of a man and a woman. You've changed the definition of marriage, which I find completely pointless and unnecessary. Since the following novels also provide a basis for changes in learning programs, from so-called sex theories, so that the child can choose sex and similar nonsense. I, of course, support the motion for a decree before us today. It is right to accept the amendment and to go to the referendum on 20 December this year so that it will not be tolerated next year. And, of course, it is right for citizens and citizens to decide on this law as soon as possible because they have this right. It is also right that all of you here realize that children are not our right to be our gift. A gift of nature, a gift of man and woman. Otherwise, unfortunately, it's not possible to take a natural route here. It would be good if we started to work here to improve the quality of our children. Believe me, I am also in favour of taking care of the development of Slovenia, but with the amendment of this law, by changing the redefinition of marriage, we will certainly not achieve the development of Slovenia. Dear coalition, let us deal with the right measures once again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž German has the floor. Get Dr. Jasna Murgel ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u78	Thank you, President. It's about the kids. What if these kids are gay? It's not about them. It's about those other kids, about those real kids, if they're gay, it's not right for them, and it's not right for them. So we only touch one child and we only fight for those children that we define to be real. They say we have to respect each other and that's what we have to do, I understand. They also say that we must respect the decision of the highest instance in the country, this is the Supreme Court, and I agree. Above all, the Council of State must respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court. That's true. I wonder if the Constitutional Court should respect anyone. Does it have to respect human rights? No, but the Constitutional Court doesn't have to, because they ruled 5 to 4 an extremely large majority, almost as great as it was in the National Assembly when we voted on behalf of the people what I will continue to fight for. And I believe we will someday – if it's not 20. December –"winning because it is a development, in some way the development of our society, especially the development of tolerance among ourselves, which is so lacking in us. Someone in front of me said that we must refrain from some popular slogans in order to somehow protect our country and our institutions. But my opinion, and – this time – my personal impression is that the Supreme Court has once again proved to be that weak member of the development of our society, because those who do not want to see to look away, those who do not want to admit to letting live, live and let live. I'm talking about definition, someone was talking to me about not writing a man anymore, a woman's relationship. I've got my wife, she'll always be my wife, the one who doesn't want to see this through. We need to learn, not only on this issue, but simply on a variety of subjects, including the ideological question – live and let live. I understand that as long as someone interferes with your welfare, in your way of life we can stand up to him, tell him our own, but if no one wants to touch you, no one will touch you, just let people live. I still have hope, and this hope will never fail. I also listened attentively to the President of the National Assembly at a press conference when he somehow commented on the decision of the Constitutional Court, and I agree with him. It's amazing. It took the Constitutional Court six months. Very quickly, with our finger on the National Assembly and on the Members, when something is not happening according to our plans, the Constitutional Court has taken 6 months for something that should be decided substantially earlier. But well, the process path was right, thank God, that's good. The president of the National Assembly also said that if I quote him, this decision or interpretation is essentially empty. Hope is in the guardian. However, thanks to the Ombudsman, it is possible to examine the possibility of introducing a constitutional review, particularly in those provisions which contain discrimination, namely in two laws – health care and health insurance. I believe you don't all agree with me. I believe that you will all agree when I say to you, Live and let live. Let's give people a chance to live, we haven't done it yet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Dr. Jasna Murgel, please, you have the floor. Get ready, Mr. Jean-Mahnič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Your Honor! In the SMC Group, we decided on date 20. 12. 2015 because we believe that setting such a date is most appropriate in accordance with the Referendum and Human Initiative Act. It is now up to all Slovenia to decide whether the same sex can marry. I regret, however, that we will decide on the issue of human rights at the referendum. This still seems unacceptable to me, and I still believe that the Constitution prohibits it. Opinions are divided on this; there are many opinions of lawyers that take either one or the other position. But the Constitutional Court has avoided the fundamental issue, namely whether the Marriage and Family Relations Act, because it does not regulate marriage between same-sex partners, discriminates against same-sex partners. This question was not answered by the Constitutional Court. The fact that this issue is very important has also been pointed out by the Ombudsman, who has announced the possibility of bringing a constitutional opinion on whether discrimination is at stake here. We will see this in the future when this referendum is over. I hope that the citizens of the referendum will decide that we will be a modern society that rejects discrimination like most Western countries. Because this issue, the issue of discrimination, is the starting question, one of the most important issues, is not the marginal topic that we are dealing with here now. This is the question on which the whole society is based. We can also have great development and I don't know what, but we can also have a dictatorship that we know where it leads, so it's important that discrimination is prevented. Since we have to decide at the referendum because the Constitutional Court so decided, I really hope that citizens will decide that there will be no discrimination at least in this area in the Republic of Slovenia, and that we will decide that the amendment of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, as envisaged, will be enforced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Jean Mahnič has the floor. Get Mr. Tomaž Gantar ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Mr. Hainz. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is interesting to hear how you talk about human rights those you have already violated twice in this mandate. For the first time, you violated the right to exercise an active electoral right when you removed your mandate from your fellow Member, Mr Janez Janša, and then the Constitutional Court told you what your thoughts on this matter were and how it is in this case. And secondly, you violated the human right to freedom of expression in the referendum by prohibiting citizens and citizens from deciding on this law at the referendum. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we agree that the referendum on human rights is inadmissible. Finally, we also voted last year when this article, Article 90 of the Constitution, changed. But, ladies and gentlemen, in this case, it is not a matter of deciding on human rights. This was clearly said by the Constitutional Court. I agree that when a German colleague said earlier when he quoted the President of the National Assembly as saying that it had lasted a long time, it took six months. But I didn't realize that anyone would complain when they had been deciding on Patricia's affair for seven years and practically affecting every election. Human rights are not child adoption. Like, if you want, given that we now have this refugee crisis, in my opinion, European life is not a human right. The Constitutional Court has ruled as it has decided. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we also first proposed an amendment yesterday, before that interruption was to be a referendum on 20 December. The referendum will then be held and must be carried out as soon as possible. I hear there are no referendum candidates here today. They probably have a lot to do, campaign preparations, as I'm aware, are already running. The last thing they want to do is sit in this House and listen to this debate. And that the party that I know for 40 years that closed up those who celebrated Christmas is today talking about Christmas charms and some family holidays, it seems a little funny to me. And when we talk about Somalia and whether we will be with them as far as corruption is concerned and as far as the rule of law is concerned, we are quite close to these countries. Some are even overtaken on these scales, of course in a negative sense. So I hope that citizens and citizens will mass turn to this referendum because it is important because we are deciding what our society will be like in the future. Whether a couple can adopt a child or not, there is no indicator of progress for me. We have many other indicators that will show us whether we are an advanced society or not. I hope and hope that in these areas, too, which truly show the progress of our society, you will do so much and put forth as much effort and effort as you have put into this law, which then collapsed clairvoyally by a decision of the Constitutional Court or, if it is not rejected by the referendum, it will come into force. Citizens and citizens, I think it is also determined that this referendum is in pre-godly times, in this family time, that we will have the opportunity to protect and preserve a traditional family with a father, mother and child. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Gantar has the floor to prepare Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Vice President. Say good-bye to everyone again! I think that in Slovenia we simply cannot be proud of having an infamous summit in the violation of human rights. Of course, I will give this to the very opposition, who always points out that this practice needs to be changed and that any violation of human rights is indeed criminal and can also be a great tragedy for an individual or for groups of individuals. Of course, I cannot agree with the thesis that was just mentioned in my predecessor that an equal position in terms of sexual orientation does not belong to human rights. I think it is still a matter of judgment and how it reflects the view of the advantage, the development of society in terms of the majority to the minority. From this point of view, of course, I find it unworthy and totally inappropriate to propose and that the majority will again decide on the rights of the minority. Personally, I also believe that the amendment to the law, which will be the subject of a referendum decision, in no way interferes with existing links and relations. Of course, husband and wife remain husband and wife, father and mother remain parents of their children, and I see no difference in this. I see even less the right to decide, on the basis of parents, whether they are the same or different sexes, whether they have more or less rights. The fact is, there are already today, but if we want to admit it or not, many children who also live in same-sex families. I fear that this will be a campaign where children will play a key role, which is wrong and unacceptable, because nowhere has been said and it has been proven that the development of a child, its housing options or anything else is at risk and is linked to some other risk factors than living in a same-sex or different-sex family. Of course, much could be discussed. I think a lot of words have been said about the validity of the bill. I personally support her. Perhaps at the end of the day only what the colleague mentioned in the presentation of the parliamentary group, I think that was a nice thought. Of course, I also want all families, whether equally oriented or differently directed, to be able to celebrate Christmas holidays, which are intended for families and which are soon after the referendum, to celebrate equally happily and satisfactorily, of course at the rejection of the proposal for a referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, you have the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Chairman. Today we have heard many words about what is right and what is wrong and what is natural and what is not. In fact, everything happened yesterday when the coalition actually had the opportunity and the opportunity to stop this nonsense that we are talking about today. The matter has a much larger dimension than just talking about who has the right to marry who and who has the right to adopt whom. In fact, it is a question of who in this country really decides. The people or a small group of constitutional judges who are reinterpreting and also interpreting the Constitution? Constitutional judges are not to interpret the Constitution. Constitutional judges are in favour of deciding which decisions we also make in the National Assembly. But it happened the other way around. It was true that they had made an empty decision, which the President of the National Assembly had been talking about, and, more importantly, they had, in fact, said everything with their separate opinions, because instead of the decision, they had, in fact, defined themselves in that regard. And it's more than clear that they have a personality problem. It is a serious problem for the National Assembly to decide a personal problem because of its viewpoint, a global view. If, years ago, what the Constitution does not allow them to do, they have set up a congregation if they have recently been able to reinterpret their own decision, which has already been decided in the framework of education, today we have a third new decision. What's it really about? It's not about kids, it's about old parents. Far from it. The answer is whether the church, which received a large slap in Ireland, will now correct this mistake in one small country of the Republic of Slovenia. It is not about civil society, it is an institution with its national attributes and the role it has to play and has been defending it for more than 2,000 years. Conservative parties in our country also support this role and express themselves in all possible ways, right and wrong. And the Constitutional Court, which should decide whether the law is contrary to the Constitution or not, did not want to decide. Rather, it was political, so that, like Pontius Pilate, he could wash his hands and say that others should decide. In fact, we all know what this is about. It will be an electoral campaign that will be ugly, dirty, the main role played by children and old parents as collateral damage, and politicians and those who shape fate will have their hands to continue playing their hidden dirty games under the protection of invisibility. We're really going to do what they were doing in America, which is segregation of people. If they were talking about blacks and whites, today we're talking about healthy, natural, and I don't know what kind, and on the other hand only 81 same-sex families and nothing more. And I'm ashamed that the National Assembly allows it and puts its eyes under cover that we have to respect the Constitution. The Constitution was not even respected by the Constitutional Court, and article 14 was overlooked by every lawyer in the first year of his right to think. And I'm ashamed that in December we're going to talk about children, about parents, about rights, about the natural family. You all know exactly what I'm talking about and you're all looking down. They will come to this right as before, and I am ashamed that they will have to wait another 10, 15, 20 years and that our children will have to say that they do not understand why we have waited so long. All in order, constitutional judges, government, Members, we can all be ashamed! It's a black day.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Bratusek is not here. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec, you have the floor. Get Mr. Jan Škoberne ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u88	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. What we heard today in this debate, of course, was not a debate on the decision, but what we heard at the time of the adoption of the law, clearly shows where this campaign will lead on the part of those who oppose the elimination of discrimination. We will face a host of lies, deceptions, and speeches that limit hate speech. And this is probably due to this decision of the Constitutional Court, as it is now. If I go back to the ruling itself, I think that today, with this debate that is taking place, we are making a fool of this institution, which we call the National Assembly. We are making a fool of this institution because we do not somehow hope as Members and legislators to accept the responsibilities of taking certain decisions, so that we have now amended this decree, even if we wish to make the announcements proposed when these signatures are submitted for this referendum. We can say that the Constitutional Court is also making a fool out of this same institution, according to the National Assembly. If you have read the decision, or the one you have read, you will clearly understand from those lines what the Constitutional Court says there. For he says that it is he who has the right to a final and authoritative opinion on what the Constitution says. It is said that any move taken by the National Assembly as a founder is completely irrelevant to the Constitutional Court. It is said that the Constitutional Court is the highest instance that can overrun what the National Assembly, as the founder, accepts. We could cynically — or perhaps not — ask, whose color is the heart of certain constitutional judges. Comrade Mahnic has already pointed out in some way that he was talking about the violation of the human rights of one man, while we are now facing the fact that human rights of a multitude of people can be violated without problems. What else can I say in the end? We have listened to this discussion about how this law, called the Marriage and Family Relations Act, does not refer to human rights. I wonder if insurance is not based on the partner that you live with, of course, all couples of all kinds, both within the marriage and the extramarital community, human rights. Isn't it about visiting a sick partner in a hospital, human rights? Now, of course, diversified partners can do this — if there is a partner in the hospital, you go to visit him, and the same - sex partners do not have these options because they are treated like foreigners. And there's a whole bunch of these rights. I don't think we're just talking here about some neurological points recognised by opponents of eliminating discrimination mainly in a marriage that is supposed to bring society and family down, as we know it today, in adoptions and so on. And I think that here today we must stress that we are talking about equality before the law if we are very legal and formal about what this novel is applying. Is equality before the law both constitutional and human rights? That's what we're talking about, not all the other partisans we've heard today. I think this will have to be the clearest message when we go to the referendum, because unfortunately we have to go to the vote to be equal before the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Jean Mahnic has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u90	Thank you, Vice President. Since Dr. Vatovec mentioned me, I don't know, I probably wasn't the most understood. I'm not talking about any political pedigree of constitutional judges. If I were to talk about this, I could point out that the majority of the constitutional judges currently sitting in the Constitutional Court have been proposed by the former President of the Republic, Dr Danilo Türk. And given the political pedigree, I believe you voted for Danil Türk in the presidential elections. We all know that he was not even close to our client, that he was a representative, we can call it, the more radical left and he certainly did not propose the SDS of Constitutional Judges. This has been said many times in the National Assembly. Moreover, the Constitutional Judges themselves wrote that it was not human rights and that the referendum was therefore permissible.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Jan Škoberne, you have the floor. Get Mrs. Jelka Godec ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! In fact, we have exhausted more or less the content of the debate, which should not be and is unworthy of this. I am personally in a serious dilemma and distress because I have to decide whether or not to support the referendum resolution when voting. I will decide to support the ruling for a simple reason, because I sincerely believe that citizens and citizens of this country want us all to be equal because they want two full-year-olds to have the opportunity to enter into a marriage and because they do not want to live in a country where they are forced to accept and see the discrimination of their neighbour from day to day. I do not believe that this time the doctrine of fear will win, although this doctrine, especially in times of crisis and in the face of extremely difficult decisions as it can, often comes to the fore and is used to achieve something that is completely contrary to any rational thought. One particularly nice book has been walking around my head all day, George Orwell's animal farm. I hope you've all read it. The lesson of the story is quite simple in the end. Pigs as a leading force have decided that all animals are equal, one more, the other less. We, as those who are called upon to administer this country in a responsible manner, must decide differently and find that in this country all people are equal and before the law. Pika. If this thesis is not clear to anyone, I suggest that he take back the Animal Farm, once, twice, three times, four times, five times, until it is clear and it is fully accepted. The teachings of the French revolution on which modern civilisation is based, for which, at least in most of the debates, let us say, what declaration of the European Parliament we are very much listening to, are very clear on the issue of equality. I am truly sorry that we are discussing this decision today and this referendum. However, I will sincerely look forward to the fact that, on 20 December, I am firmly convinced that we do not want discrimination anymore, and that a law allowing two full-year-olds in this country to enter into a marriage will be confirmed. Nothing else is involved, except that sometimes steps towards progress are very difficult to make, that everyone has never been a supporter of progress, because it brings something new, something unknown, something that we can sometimes rightly fear, but fear needs to be overcome. Especially because we're not the first. Many countries and many communities have taken this step before us. To the surprise of many families, it did not fail. The family has grown stronger. The countries that have been able to enforce this decision, the decision that there is no discrimination in the community and that they are all equal before the law, are the ones that are the most successful by all parameters. I wish Slovenia were among them. If we have accompanied praises in the global media at the time of the adoption of this law, comments on how good it is to join the most advanced ones, we regret that we had to and that we must have listened and also read comments of disappointment at least temporarily moved between the more backward ones, at least until 20 December. I hope so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mrs. Jelka Godec, you have the floor. A representative of the Government and the proposer should be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. Today’s debaters, or those who were discussers, point to who launched an ugly election campaign. All those who beat each other's chests today, what you're gonna do or what you're gonna do for the same-sex, you better shut up. In 2005, the Law on Registration of Same-Sex Partners was passed, and you were then in opposition. From 25 years of democratic Slovenia, you have ruled for 20 years. You didn't blink with your finger at the same time, not with your finger. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which you are profaning one after another today, 2009 found that the Registration Act of same-sex partners is unconstitutional in certain articles, including in the case of inheritance. At that time, Slovenian democratic parties corrected this law, which you rejected on the left. But today you're all hitting each other, and I'll say again, on the chest, what you've done for the same-sex. You didn't do anything, absolutely nothing. You are still using the Marriage and Family Relations Act for your ideological views today. You're fighting an ideological battle today. You weren't talking about the date today. You weren't talking about the ruling that's in session today. You talk and you run a campaign that starts, as far as I know, 6. 11. You're using the National Assembly for your fight. When the head of the Modern Centre Party Group spoke about human rights, she listed them as a whole. I believe she's forgotten someone. I hope she remembers him at the next session when maybe one of those minorities will remember her. She spoke well of how we must not act in an unconstitutional manner, how we must respect laws, constitutions, human rights. I don't know if you have a memory of a human fish. You have repeatedly violated the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Slovenia in the National Assembly, and today you are teaching us what human rights are and how human rights must be respected. If this is the case, why did you not give the Health Insurance Act a constitutional assessment as soon as you came to power in 2014? Or other laws that are directed against the same sexes? Why didn't you put into revision all those laws that violate human rights? You didn't give them away. Today you talk about how good you are and what you will do to change all of this. You've had a slap on the wrist of the Constitutional Court a number of times. And today, some even talk about how constitutional judges act, what color their heart beats, whether they are normal or not, because they have decided. You explain that to all those who are not constitutional lawyers at all, who are not even lawyers. Some people don't even know what you're talking about, and you even talk about what the Supreme Court ruled, not the Constitutional Court. You obviously don't know what the Constitutional Court decided. It has made a substantive decision on the dispute between the applicant and the National Assembly and, indirectly, on the fact that this law has never been known as unconstitutional in the field of human rights and that the European Court of Human Rights has repeatedly found that the marriage of same-sex persons is not a human right. Marriage is also not a human right, a child is not a human right, all of which are the free choices of each individual. May I remind you that, when the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia were adopted on 24 March 2013 and at that time the amendment of Article 90 of the Constitution, Mrs Maša Kociper, who was the President of the Constitutional Commission – I am sorry that her former colleague, Mr Jani, was not here – said for the 90th Article of the Constitution: "Among the provisions prohibiting or restricting the referendum decision is also a provision which was examined by the expert commission and the Constitutional Commission on the basis of a proposal for a position. This is a provision that clearly restricts the decision-making of laws that abolish unconstitutionality. In this case, too, the practice of the National Assembly will have to insist strictly on the explanation given in the Constitutional Commission, so that only the articles proposed as non-constitutional may be amended in order to eliminate unconstitutionality by a decision of the Constitutional Court. Any application of other content and related amendments to the other provisions of the law will be inadmissible, as this would certainly avoid a legislative referendum. Here too the practice of the Constitutional Court will be crucial." So she told you nicely that marriage must in fact be known as unconstitutional. Once again, I would like to point out that the Constitutional Court has also assessed the admissibility of the referendum on a substantive basis, once again - it has decided on the dispute between the applicant and the National Assembly on the basis of the substantive reasons in Article 90 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Today it is unacceptable to discuss whether it is right or wrong. The Institute of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has decided as decided. And that you are embarking on a personal level, such as Mr Jani, who has literally been upset, how constitutional judges are inappropriate and do not know what all of them are, and others who say how politically oriented they are, I think that this is unacceptable, that you are maligning the institution of the Constitutional Court of Slovenia. The fact that it is not even known that it is the Constitutional Court and that it is referred to as the Supreme Court is such a special chapter. So once again I ask the coalition and all those who today talk about human rights violations, why didn't you make a constitutional assessment of all those laws that violate these human rights in the field of same-sex? Why did you not propose to amend the Law on the Registration of Same-Sex Partners? Why didn't you propose a change to the Succession Act and so on? I believe you just don't have that answer. At the referendum, the majority will not decide on the minority, but on the majority. It will decide what the institution of marriage is, whether the marriage is a union of two persons, which is now in the novel, or the marriage of a husband and wife. So it's not the majority that decides about the minority, it's the majority that decides about the majority. It's not about equalizing same-sex relationships with variety, but it's about redefining the family. This is already known on some forms if you have not noticed. Those who don't have children, you definitely didn't notice that. We get forms that say "parent 1" and "parent 2" don't say "mother" and don't say "father". No one will tell me that this does not interfere with my personal matter or with my views and opinions. I'm not parent one or parent two, I'm a mother, and I'm not gonna let them treat me like parent one, as it is now at the election invitations that my parents get home. Is this the result of this change of law or something? How can this be allowed? I'd say, as my predecessors said, you'd better give a better future to families, children, abused children, abused men, women, single parent families. Give a better future to our young, unemployed and so on. You are dealing with a topic that is not important for the development of our society today and will not help us to develop our society so strongly that suddenly we will all live better. Far from it. You deal with single-parent families where a child cries when it's his mother's day? No, no, no. You're wondering about the rights of this child who doesn't have a mother to come to her mother's day? You don't care about that. You're also talking about the fact that there's no proposer today. The government is here, and it's like it's not there. The government is silent. He's not talking again. There is no Minister in this case, but I'll tell you that the Minister will be here if the legislative referendum falls. That's when she'll come to take a picture. Today, it is not to explain what the government's position is to see a different date in the decree than it was suggested that it is not January 10th, but December 20th. What does he think? If we followed the parent board meeting yesterday, the coalition acted completely unconstitutional, they didn't even know what they were voting on. They were so confused that they voted to postpone the meeting to the 20th hour that they didn't even know they were voting for the 20th hour! Nothing, absolutely nothing was clear to them. Today, they are talking again about making it possible to have a better future. To whom do they give a better future? How many people? Again, I ask, do you allow a better future for the unemployed, those on the verge of survival? No, not with any law so far. Not until today. Those laws, which would allow a better future for all Slovenians, all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, should be supported, they should be brought to the table in order to deal with such laws. Stop doing what the Constitutional Court says or why and how it has decided. It's the decision she's made. Today you are running a dirty campaign and this ideological battle that you're fighting with these flossules that we're listening to, that the Constitutional Court is beating the heart more to the right, because you have no other argument. I hope you don't continue this campaign. I call on all citizens, not only those who have given more than 48 thousand signatures in four days, but all to go to the referendum and decide according to their conscience as they see fit. For or against the fact that marriage is a new relationship between two people and not a relationship between a man and a woman, because it brings a lot of things behind it. It's not just that same-sex people can get married. This also brings me to parenting one or two, maybe in the family I'll fight to be one. It means that we will change the curricula that we are slowly changing, so we can also have goals in the resolution on gender equality or equality between men and women, such as changing curricula in this area. The plans have therefore been written long before, but none of you have so far made an effort to give to the Constitutional Court all those laws where you think they violate the human rights of the same-sex. No, you didn't. Today you're talking about what you've done. Nothing. Nothing so far. I hope or believe that the referendum will succeed. Thus, by the number of people present at the referendum, and also by the fact that three years after the family code was rejected, they would also decide that marriage is a marriage of husband and wife and not of two persons. But then, dear coalition, I hope and believe in you, because you have nice words to finally come to action, so that you will give to the Constitutional Court all laws that violate human rights, that you will change all laws that violate the human rights of same-sex couples, that you will also listen to the Ombudsman who said that if the law succeeds, she will give a constitutional review of the Law on Health and Health Insurance, not the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. The guardian, therefore, believes that this law, which is in existence, is completely good. So after December 20, you are expected to do a lot of things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The representative of the Government, Mrs Martina Vuk State Secretary, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! It's actually a sad day today, but I'm sorry to find out so out loud. Article 14 of the Constitution is indeed very clear. Article 14 of the Constitution refers to the principle of equality. It speaks of no one being treated differently because of different personal circumstances. Sexual orientation is one such personal circumstance. That is why today, in the Constitutional Court's decision, and therefore in the debates, there has never been a speech in the amendment to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, whether the marriage is a human right or whether the adoption of children is a human right or a child in general is a human right. There has never been a talk about this, so it is sad that this continues to be highlighted. However, it is the principle of equality that this personal circumstance must not be a reason for distinction if there are no legitimate reasons for this. The fact that two persons can enter into a marriage means the rights and obligations that this marriage brings. It means rights and obligations. If there has been so much talk today and through all this time – and I expect even in the future, all the way to the referendum to be carried out – about what the real problems are, how we have to face the real problems, what we are talking about here, how this is really unrelated, then one really wonders why we've spent six months and not enough, why we're going to spend the next two months, and why we're always going around in a circle, when we know that the reality is that there are people living between us who are equally sexually oriented, that there are same sex couples living between us today and now that we are living in same-sex families and that there are children living in these families here and now. That's what we're talking about. It is true that these people and these families are not hundreds of thousands, there are not 2 million, there are some tens, but their lives are as real as our lives, and their needs, their responsibilities, their obligations and their rights are just as real as our rights, such as the rights of all people living in this country. That is why it is very, very bad for these people and for all of us living in this country to say that these are minor and unreal problems. But naturally, the following questions will be asked. Then why have a referendum? Then why collect so many and so many tens of thousands of signatures? Why, then, urge all people to make decisions about their minor, insignificant problems that they do not experience in everyday life? That's what this is about. That is why we say that it is wrong for a minority to decide on the majority, because when problems, problems, inequalities confront a minority, a narrower circle of people, of course, it is not to be expected of all other people to take it for themselves and understand it. That is why we have human rights institutions and therefore we have Article 14 of the Constitution so that such inequalities do not occur. That's why it's a sad day. Because we're still, today, that's five. 11. 2015, hearing about what natural gift is, what natural gift is. You know, I always say that since we have electricity, there's no more nature. And let's try to live without electricity today if this is something that defines us. How, then, will we explain to children living in same - sex families today that their parents are not parents? How are we going to explain to same-sex couples that they are not mutual relatives, and because they are not recognized as relatives, they should not exercise certain rights, such as not having to testify in court, such as being allowed to visit hospitals, as we have heard today, as they can cherish their partner or partner when these cases arise, as this is self-evident for all other couples? Even so, it is so self - centered for all other couples that it doesn’t matter whether we are married or not, whether we have a marriage or not. Therefore, it is a sad day, since we are now wondering whether the principle of equality, which is a fundamental principle in our Constitution, applies to all.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u97	Thank you very much. There is no representative of the proposer. All the debaters have your word. The amendments to the bill were not tabled. Time still allows us to continue the debate if there is any desire. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the proposal for a decision. The decision on the motion for a decision will be made today following the end of item 4 of the agenda. This concludes the third item of the agenda. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, this is on the eve of a motion for a decision on the conclusion of a legal referendum on the law on the amendment of the defence law. The proposal for a decision was submitted by a group of 84 Members and Members with the first signed by Dr Simono Kustec Lipicer. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mr Marjan Dolinšk.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u98	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The adoption of the Law supplementing the Defence Act stems from the needs identified by the current refugee and migrant crisis. As of 17 October 2015, police work has been ordered by the changed security situation due to the massive entry of refugees and migrants into the Republic of Slovenia. The Act supplementing the Defence Act thus constitutes an urgent measure enabling immediate and effective security throughout the entire territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The urgent nature of the measure and thus the fulfilment of the condition laid down in the first subparagraph of Article 90(2) of the Constitution shall also be indicated by: the definition of the powers of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces as "exceptional", the time limit for the duration of the measure and the built-in security guard, which allows the activation of exceptional powers on a proposal from the Government only and only with the two-thirds support of the present Members of the National Assembly. The National Assembly shall meet at its 22nd extraordinary meeting, on 21. Ten. 2015 adopted the Act supplementing the Law on Defence. On Wednesday, 28 October 2015, Martina Dervarič informed the President of the National Assembly, Dr Milan Brglez, of the submission of an electoral initiative to apply for a legislative referendum on the Defence Act. As the first day of the calendar date for collecting the signatures of the electorate and the electorate in support of the request for a legislative referendum on the Defence Act, the President of the National Assembly set Monday 2 November 2015, the latest, 35. On Sunday, December 6, 2015, the signatures were collected. 24. 5. In 2013, the National Assembly adopted the Constitutional Act amending Articles 90, 97 and 99 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The first indent of the second paragraph of Article 90, as amended, provides that the referendum shall not be permitted to specify the laws on emergency measures in order to ensure the protection of the State, safety or remedy the consequences of natural disasters. The second section of the Constitutional Law in the second paragraph provides that, pending the harmonisation of the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative, the provisions of Article 1 of this Constitutional Law shall apply mutatis mutandis to the application of the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative directly and that, pending the harmonisation of Article 21 of the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative, it shall apply mutatis mutandis to the Constitutional Court to decide on the dispute between the proposer of the referendum and the National Assembly rejecting the invitation to a referendum on law. It follows from this that in the event that the initiative or request for a referendum relates to the law referred to in Article 90(2) of the Constitution of Slovenia, the National Assembly finds that the referendum is not admissible. On the basis of the reasons set out in point 2 of the proposal, we propose to the National Assembly to adopt a decision rejecting the invitation to tender for the subsequent legislative referendum, since the initiative or requirement relates to the law defined in the first indent of the second paragraph of Article 90 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the referendum is not admissible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The proposal for a decision was considered by the Defence Committee as the parent working body. I give the floor to Mr Jan Mahnic, Chairman of the Committee, to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, Madam Secretary! At its 18th urgent meeting on 3 November, the Defence Committee considered as a working mother the proposal for a decision rejecting the call for a legislative referendum on the Law supplementing the Defence Act submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members. At its 22nd extraordinary meeting on 21 October, the National Assembly adopted the Law on Complements of the Defence Act. On 28 October, a notice of an initiative was submitted to the electorate to apply for a legislative referendum on the Law supplementing the Law on Defence. Pursuant to Article 16a of Article 12a of the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative, the President of the National Assembly, on the first day of the calendar date for the collection of the signatures of electors and voters in support of the request for a legislative referendum, set Monday, 2 November 2015, the last, 35 days, and Sunday, 6 December 2015. On 3 November, the Group of Members and Members of the Party of the Modern Centre, the Slovenian Democratic Party, the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, the Social Democrats, NSI - Christian Democrats, the Non-Aligned Members, the Member of the Italian and Hungarian People's Community, and the Member of Jani Möderndorfer on the basis of Article 88 of the Constitution and Article 19 of the Law on Members, and Article 112 and 169a of the Rules of Procedure submitted to the Committee a proposal for a decision rejecting the invitation to a legislative referendum on the Law on Supplements to the Defence Act. In accordance with Rule 171 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee has moved to the examination of the Proposal for a Decision rejecting the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the Law supplementing the Law on Defence. On behalf of the proposer, an additional explanation shall be given to I and II. the point of the proposal was put forward by Member Marjan Dolinšek, who finally proposed that the National Assembly adopt a decision rejecting the invitation to tender for the subsequent legislative referendum, since the initiative concerns a law which is defined in the first indent of Article 90(2) of the Constitution and which is not admissible for the referendum. The Minister of Defence initially said that the Government respects the right to a referendum, but in a specific situation, the country is facing a difficult migration policy. The adoption of the Law supplementing the Law on Defence was necessary due to the current migration crisis. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented the opinion of the PSC, which examined the proposal for a decision in the light of the competences it has in the referendum procedure in terms of the formal and legal compatibility of the draft act with the Constitution and the law. The President of the National Assembly, Dr Milan Brglez, participated in the debate. Matthew Tonin and Miha Kordish. President of the National Assembly and Mag. Tonin supported the motion for a decision rejecting the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum in the debate and the representative of the United Left Group, Miha Kordiš, objected to the adoption of the proposal. No amendments have been tabled to the Proposal for a Decision rejecting the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the Law supplementing the Defence Act. The Committee has also not formulated its amendments to the proposal for that Decision. The Committee therefore voted on I and II in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. points (a) of the Proposal for a Decision rejecting the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the Law supplementing the Law on Defence and adopting it. The Defence Committee shall propose to the National Assembly that the proposal for a decision be adopted in the text before it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u101	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Defence Andreja Katič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u102	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Nice greetings, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Let me begin by stressing again, as I have done in the past days, that I respect the right to a referendum. As Minister of Defence, I would also like to point out that the country is facing a difficult security situation in relation to the migration crisis, which includes all parts of the national security system, namely the security system, the defence system and the system of protection against natural and other disasters. The country is limited in its involvement in the management of the situation, as we have the resources and resources to the extent we have established in the past. The available forces and resources must be used in every crisis situation in the most effective way to ensure the security of citizens, their assets and the security of the country as a whole. The aim of the amendment of the Defence Act is, as you are well aware, in particular to allow for wider engagement, to increase the operational capacity and effectiveness of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the execution of the tasks of protecting the state border. Several restrictions have been put into the novel to prevent the abuse of this solution. First of all, it is the dual phase of the activation of the Slovenian Armed Forces, where, in the first phase of the task of supporting the police in broader protection, it performs without police powers, as it does today. Only by a decision of the National Assembly, and with a two-thirds majority of those present, can the Slovenian Armed Forces obtain only certain special powers by carrying out these tasks together with the police. The additional limitation is also time-consuming, i.e. these tasks, following a decision by the National Assembly, may be carried out only at a time when this is strictly necessary for the performance of the tasks, but not more than 3 months, so that the National Assembly may extend the period for the same period. In view of the extremely difficult security situation in the country, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports the proposal for a decision as it has been put into the process. The entry into force of the Law on Defence will allow the Government to propose to the National Assembly, in the event of possible exacerbation of the migration problem in the coming days and weeks, and of course on the basis of an assessment and a proposal from the Ministry of the Interior, to allow the involvement of the Slovenian Armed Forces with the new powers provided for by the law. The Slovenian army will carry out its tasks together with the police and on the basis of coordinated plans. This will ensure the enhanced operational capacity and effectiveness of the Slovenian Armed Forces in protecting the state border. The entry into force of the Law on Defence will allow us to begin immediately with the police to plan the possible engagement of the Slovenian Armed Forces with new powers and to provide adequate equipment in due time if the decision of the National Assembly is reached. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Benedict Kopmajer is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister, colleague and colleague, nice greeting! A day ago, we adopted a new Law on Defence to wet the National Assembly so that, on a proposal from the Government, with a two-thirds majority of the votes of the Members present, members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, together with the police, may exercise certain police powers in the wider protection of the state border. The powers and tasks laid down by the proposed law would be exercised by members of the Slovenian Armed Forces under the same conditions as those of the police, but only if this were strictly necessary and not more than three months. In the DeSUS Group, we are committed to taking all possible measures to protect the border, our citizens and at the same time to provide an effective supply and assistance to migrants. Last week an initiative was put in place for voters to apply for a legislative referendum. The referendum is a constitutional category that gives citizens and citizens the opportunity to express their will in this way. However, in the Desus Group, we regret that there has been an initiative to apply for a referendum on the law, which would allow the Slovenian Army to provide security at our borders together with the police. We wonder whether the applicants are aware of the situation at our borders and of the fact that all those involved in border control and the care of migrants are already very exhausted. It is therefore necessary to strengthen the capacity in the field. In the Desus Group, we believe that the referendum on the amendment of the Defence Act is not admissible because it is a law falling within the category of laws on emergency measures to ensure the protection of the State, safety or remedy the consequences of natural disasters in accordance with Article 90 of the Constitution. The urgent nature of the measure and thus the fulfilment of the condition laid down in Article 90 of the Constitution also demonstrates the definition of the powers of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces as "exceptional", the time limit on the duration of the measure, and the built-in protector, which allows the activation of exceptional powers on a proposal from the Government only with two-thirds support from the representatives of the National Assembly present. For this reason, the proposal for a decision will be supported in the Desus Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Germany.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u106	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, colleague, colleague! We have supported the proposal for a law supplementing the Defence Act. We are also co-signors to the Proposal for a Decision rejecting the invitation to a legislative referendum on the amendment of the Defence Act, and we will therefore support the proposed decision, as we have already done at last night's meeting of the Defence Committee. Instigators of the referendum have every legitimate right to question the reasons for the adoption of the additional Defence Act and also have every right to a negative assessment of the procedure for examining and adopting these supplements. The government therefore faces two opinions, which are also two public opinions. On the one hand, there are those who see slowness, irresponsibility, unwillingness to respond to the refugee problem, and on the other hand those who feel that the Government decides too quickly and without further discussion on such an important law as the Defence Act, which is adopted by a two-thirds majority of the votes of Members present. And that, in any case, means more than a rule, a government majority can provide. Here are also those who face the upcoming and outgoing crowds of people on the border with Croatia and Austria, and try to help these people not only with food, drink, clothing and medical and other care, but also with the safe passage of these people across the territory of Slovenia, as we know that Slovenia, like Croatia, Serbia, Macedonia and Greece, is a transit and unpromised country. However, monitoring and supervision is carried out by police officers who, on the basis of legal provisions, supervise the crossing of the state border and the movement of foreigners. Given the ratio between the number of police officers and the number of people crossing the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, this is difficult to carry out over the longer term, and these officers may say that they urgently need help due to the current overload. Therefore, the Government and virtually a large majority of Members and Members have decided that, in these current circumstances, the work of police officers has been burdened by the work of police officers, who have also managed this massive arrival of people from the crisis hotspots of the Middle East through the presence of soldiers in these first months. Already in the position of the Group of Social Democrats, we have expressed ourselves to supplement the Defence Act, not only to respond to the current situation at our borders, but to establish an additional pillar of resistance to the already launched activities of the Republic of Slovenia in the resolution of the refugee crisis. The data show that over 130,000 people have crossed Slovenian territory. Slovenia, with the great efforts of police officers, representatives of civil protection, humanitarian workers, medical personnel and in recent days also with the help of foreign police officers, doctors and volunteers, controls the movement of people. At the expected greater pressure of people who are going towards the central part of Europe, we must also take the path of legal change, which will at this moment help us to adapt more effectively to the situation, as well as to ensure the security of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia as well as refugees. We have assessed the social democrats that the situation that has arisen in the decision-making and resolution of this problem needs a calm head. Thus, it is on the policy side that matters are handled with soundness of mind, chosen, and above all without using this issue as a means of political overreaction. As I said in the introduction, the Social Democrats will support the proposal for a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The text is given by the United Left Group, Mr Luka Mesec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u108	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! In recent weeks too, a large number of refugees are beginning to arrive through Slovenia, fleeing countries where, due to long-standing sanctions, military aggressions or the instigation of civil wars, the entire civilian infrastructure has been virtually destroyed. It is our Government's duty to try to ensure as humanely as possible that refugees are granted human transition and that those who wish to do so are granted refugee status. The government must do everything to prevent this situation from becoming an excuse for spreading racial and religious intolerance, which unfortunately has been on the rise in recent days. And the government is leaning this way. Instead of contributing to human resolution, it has contributed to creating emergency situations. Amendments to the Defence Act and the prohibition of the referendum are, for example, two such steps. If I start at the beginning. A clear distinction between the powers of the military and the police is a civilizational achievement. The aim is to prevent the military from interfering with civil matters in order to prevent the abuse of the military by this or that political authority, which we have in history countless bad practices. That is why our Defence Act did not allow the military to carry out police duties until 2004. Article 37, paragraph 4, was added only in 2004 at the time of entry into NATO, allowing for the engagement of an army to protect the border within the country, and the military was not allowed to carry out police duties. In the 1990s, however, Slovenia was able to offer shelter to at least 35,000 refugees at that time and normally survived the so-called refugee crisis in 2001 and 2002, when more than 10,000 so-called illegals crossed our country. We've had two cases like this before. The state developed normally, the military had no police powers, and people did not become victims of refugees, there was no emergency, the nation was not threatened. It's the same today. Therefore, I repeat that there is a senseless and disproportionate interference with this law. Furthermore, Article 124 of the Constitution is clear. It is the army that defends the territorial integrity and inviolability of the state, namely the deterrence of military threats. Refugees just want to cross the country, and they're not a military threat, they're unarmed, they're civilians. That's why there's already Article 37 of the Constitutional Defense Act, the new 37a. However, the article added by the Government and decided at the referendum is certainly unconstitutional. Article 90 of the Constitution, as amended, does not prohibit a referendum on laws relating to the security and defence of the State in general. The prohibition is permissible only when it comes to the legalisation of measures which are necessary, that is, for the first time that the same objective cannot be achieved by other or less dangerous means, and this condition has not been met in this case. If we look at it, the security situation in the country hasn't changed significantly. In recent weeks, as many as 150,000 people have crossed Slovenia, the number of crimes has not increased. The same has also been confirmed in other countries, such as Serbia, where, despite the fact that there were no organised transports in the summer, refugees were travelling alone, a number of crimes or threats to the safety of Serbian citizens. Even less so, there are no alternative measures, which in fact proves what the Government itself is. After this law has been annulled, it is said that when the military did not receive police powers, the government has launched other measures, which have acted as they could. Let's say 10 days ago, people were wandering over Sotlo and freezing in no one's territory, and it's not happening anymore. This is not due to this law, but it is due to the negotiation with Croatia, the simplification of the registration procedures and the construction of the auxiliary platform in Šentilje. This is all concrete evidence that the exacerbation of repression and the granting of police powers to the military in this case is pointless and that we are in fact facing an administrative, logistical and humanitarian problem, which we must also consider and resolve as such, but not that we are creating an emergency. In the United Left, of course, we are aware of the heavy burdens of policemen and humanitarian workers, but they mean victims of refugees, but the wrong measures of the Government. Why did we begin to take steps to increase the number of auxiliary police officers just a week after we started talking about this falsified law? Another proof that alternative measures have not been exhausted, that the solutions proposed are unconstitutional and that the referendum is inadmissible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The word is given by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, for her mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u110	Since the beginning of the second refugee wave on October 17th, between 7 and 12 thousand people have entered Slovenia on a daily basis. Thousands of police officers work with migrants at borders and in Slovenia. These thousands of police officers have been practically burdened for 18 days, so it is logical and human that the police crew is exhausted and exhausted. However, since all data show that the migration wave will not change in the future and that it can even grow or last for months, it is clear that excessive human capacity also has its limits. Cops aren't supermaniacs so they can handle this kind of pressure for months and work from morning to evening. Therefore, new reinforcements with the same powers as current police officers are absolutely necessary and necessary. This is why the involvement of the Slovenian Armed Forces is necessary, because in the country it is the only force, the only organization that is properly qualified to help the police in such critical situations as we are witnessing today. There are two reasons why greater involvement of the Slovenian Armed Forces at the border is needed. One is a security reason and the other is a humanitarian reason. Let me first touch the humanitarian reason. Representatives of humanitarian organisations, such as Karitas representatives from Maribor, said that it was not possible to distribute humanitarian aid, food, clothing without the presence of the police and the military, because of the stampede created in such cases. Therefore, I hope that opponents of the Slovenian Armed Forces' greater powers understand that this also prevents the effective distribution of humanitarian aid. The second reason, which is important, is the security reason. You have reports and testimony saying that there have been many conflicts in these gathering centers, disputes that even tent burnings have occurred. In such cases, in order to prevent further proliferation of conflict, a skilled force is needed and a sufficient number of this force is also needed, which can successfully manage these conflicts. Finally, for a security reason, another aspect of increased military engagement is also important, namely that the Islamic State has recently promised 100,000 euros in rewards for anyone who will disarm a policeman or a soldier. From this point of view too, it is necessary to strengthen the supervision or assistance of the Slovenian police. Opponents of the greater involvement of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the migration crisis point out the following four key arguments. They say it is the militarisation of Slovenia. In Novi Slovenija we cannot agree with this claim because the current amended law has a number of guardians – a two-thirds majority of parliament is needed to engage the military and this engagement is limited to three months. It's a big enough fuse. The next problem raised by opponents is that they say the Slovenian Army is not qualified for such work. Neither does that argument. In addition to the police, which is exhausted and exhausted, the Slovenian Armed Forces are the only other force that is at least adequately qualified for crowd control. Remember that many Slovenian contingents have gone to Kosovo, which have been trained to control the crowds. Opponents say the Slovenian Army is already operating on the borders. Yes, but only logistically, but he does not have the authority to act in the event of conflicts. Then they ask why we don't accept intervention laws? Because she's a smaller security guard. The intervention law is adopted by a simple majority and the Defence Act by a two-thirds majority. Each State shall ensure order and security in its territory. Without further involvement of the Slovenian army in the coming months, this will not be possible, therefore the proposed referendum is an irresponsible act. In New Slovenia we will support a decision to stop this irresponsible referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The text is by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u112	Ladies and gentlemen, all those who accompany this meeting. The Group of Non-Aligned Members will certainly support this proposal. Many times, it was obvious that we were unstated. We're still kind of state-of-the-art. We have been alerted to these problems since spring and in August and September, we have been present at a night meeting, at a meeting of a committee which we are not members of, we have made constructive comments and we have received an answer that we are unstated. The comments we made spoke of the fact that the security situation in Slovenia is not well defined, which means that the security situation in Slovenia is at risk. We have pointed out a number of powers that have been proposed, which are indeterminate, and we have pointed out that many problems have already arisen in the exercise of police powers, which have been comparable in Europe for many years, and there will be a problem of implementation and there will be new powers. However, we supported the proposal. We were explained in the explanation that the system of command had been resolved. However, in the additional article, it became clear that command alone was not specified and that there would be problems when the military acted alone. Before that, however, we were told that they would always work together and that the police would be the one who played the lead. No matter what the proposal is, we will support and act proactively. And we expect the Government to continue to act proactively from now on to prepare interventions earlier, not to say again that we are unconstructive and unstated to create panic. We caution that we prepare ourselves earlier, that the law is good, that then there are no problems that we are witnessing today, and that there are no human rights abuses if they are exaggerated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Marjan Dolinšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister, all present! The Republic of Slovenia is currently in a specific situation marked by the passage of a large and diverse flow of migrants across the territory of our country. The situation is exceptional and difficult from a security point of view, as more and less equal numbers of more and more heavily burdened police officers face violent fluctuations and the trend of migration. While the daily entry numbers of migrants into the territory of the Republic of Slovenia range from 2 000 700 to 12 000 600, the number of police officers in the field is limited to 800 to a maximum of 500 police officers. In order to manage the security situation and to ensure the safety of both migrants and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, it is essential to ensure that migrants enter the Republic of Slovenia in the most targeted and controlled manner possible and that they continue to move within the territory of our country by engaging all available appropriate capacities. As one of the stepping-up measures to deal quickly and effectively with the changed security situation due to the massive entry of refugees and migrants into the Republic of Slovenia, the National Assembly adopted on 21 October 2015 the Law supplementing the Defence Act. The main purpose of the Law on Defence was to respond to the security risks arising from the changed security situation on the one hand and the staff capacity mentioned on the other. With the amendment of the Defence Act, it is possible for the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, to grant exceptional powers to members of the Slovenian Armed Forces in carrying out security tasks throughout the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The Act supplementing the Defence Act thus constitutes an urgent measure that can be used to ensure immediate and effective security, with safeguards for the activation of exceptional powers being incorporated into the law. May I remind you that the granting of exceptional powers to members of the Slovenian Armed Forces requires, inter alia, a two-thirds majority of all Members present and that this measure is limited to no more than three months. While we respect the constitutional right of voters to apply for a legislative referendum in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, with regard to the Act supplementing the Defence Act, we point out that this is a law which, in accordance with the first indent of the second paragraph of Article 90 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, is not permitted to call for a referendum. The referendum initiative launched with regard to the Act supplementing the Defence Act in this case concerns the law on emergency measures to ensure security. In the event of urgent action, effective and rapid action is crucial and could not be ensured by the call for and implementation of the referendum on the law in question. If the law were rejected in the referendum, this would constitute a serious obstacle to the adoption of further measures necessary to ensure and strengthen security. Since all the conditions laid down in the first indent of the second paragraph of Article 90 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia are met and because the Law on the Supplementation of the Law on Defence for an Urgent Action is being amended, we unanimously support the proposal for a decision to reject the invitation to a legislative referendum on the Law on the Supplementation of the Law on Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In opening, let me say that in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal to reject the legislative referendum, and we have finally signed our signatures under the request to convene this extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Today we are talking about one of the basic human needs, and that is security. We are talking about security, which we have been neglecting in Slovenia, both the police and the Slovenian Army, since we became independent and especially in crisis years. But we weren't the only indicators. When we look at the former Yugoslav State, more than the war has gone on, the countries of the former Yugoslavia have been shrinking defence spending, because the fear of armed and other conflicts has been increasingly far away and reckless decisions have also been made. Especially in times of crisis, when virtually every budget has been cut down on defence funds, funds for the military. None of the sources have been affected as much as the defence sector, where about 750 million funds have been reduced to around 350 million euros. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we feel that when we talk about this referendum, we cannot compare the debate and the CFSP referendum itself, which we discussed earlier, because we know how the Constitutional Court defined human rights. Here, when it comes to defence matters when it comes to state security, this matter is specified in Article 90 of the Constitution. That is why we see this experiment of the referendum as an extremely unconstitutional act and an attempt to demolish the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia. It is sad that we have come so far in our country that we have to talk about these fundamental human rights, the elements and needs, such as security, whether we are going to decide on them at the referendum or whether we are going to let this happen at all. Those MPs you've been to the field, you know exactly what the situation is. Whoever we talked to, the soldiers, the police, and the other volunteers, they all said they wanted the military to have more power to be more active. And then some of you are still wondering if the army will really go into the field armed. Look, the gun is the basic equipment of a military officer and Slovenian officers, and the assault rifle is the personal equipment of a Slovenian soldier and without it there is nothing to do on the ground. However, it is clear in which cases it can be used. Believe me, when I spoke to the soldiers, the legal service in the Slovenian Army day after day plays out various possibilities where the Slovenian Army can go, what powers it has, because it is always very specific when the army operates in its territorial territory. The situation we're in right now is not normal, it's not everyday. It is abnormal that 130,000 people without passports and without anything crossing the state border. Imagine that in 2003, when Schengen was on the border with Austria, let's say with 30,000 euros in its pockets -- a lot of migrants have this money -- coming across the border to Austria and saying, "Germany, Germany, Germany, I want to go there." Would you let me through? He probably wouldn't. They'd either lock me up or send me back. The police cannot control everything on their own, this is not a police criticism, they need help from the Slovenian Army because of the security situation. The saddest part is that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we hear that we are unconstructive when we sign. We gave you a signature for the meeting, we supported the amendment of the Police Act, we supported the amendments to the Defence Act. I appeal to you to ask that we no longer hear the word that we are not constructive in the Slovenian Democratic Party and that we are adapting to the Government. For months before, we had talked about what was going to happen, we had been making constructive proposals, and it was also obvious that three months ago the forbidden word "garden" had already been used yesterday by the President of the Government, and today I hear that it should have been ordered in Poland, even though some information in Slovenia does not exactly bring a fence, but 80 kilometers of new wire. We will support this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u117	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are going to have a general debate on the proposal for a decision. Since you have not announced the time for discussion for this agenda item, in accordance with Parliamentary practice, we will be able to discuss each Member and Member of Parliament, the representative of the proposer and the representative of the Government, after 5 minutes each. Who wants to discuss it? Anyone else? Lord Miha Kordish, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u118	President, thank you very much for your word. Your Honor! We're witnessing a dangerous precedent. If a decision on the prohibition of this referendum is adopted and the possible constitutional review is not carried out, referendums on laws protecting human rights will be allowed in this country at the same time as referendums on laws affecting human rights are prohibited. This is something that we cannot land on in the United Left, we will not land, and that is why we will now place our vote against the ban on this referendum. The only reason why it is reasonable and legitimate to interfere with referendum law is because of human rights. In cases where a referendum threatens human rights, it makes sense to cut it, and in no other case does such an intervention make sense and violates the democratic rights of Slovenian citizens and citizens. In any event, the conditions for prohibiting the referendum are not met in this case, in the case of the amended Defence Act. 90. Article 90 of the Constitution lays down very difficult conditions for prohibiting the referendum, so the prohibition is not enough for the Government to simply assert, but it must also explain and explain this very well. This is certainly not and is not sufficient to justify and justify the prohibition of such a referendum. What counts here is facts and there are causal connections, what is the cause and what is the consequence. And these facts and these causal connections call diametrically the opposite, as the government says, as the coalition says and as the right opposition says. The Constitution allows for the prohibition of a referendum on laws, emergency measures to ensure the defence of the State, security or remedy the consequences of natural disasters. Right from the start, we can rule out any natural disaster as a refugee crisis, and this cannot possibly be the reason why we should ban the referendum on the Defence Act. It is clear, however, that unarmed people who want to be in some kind of trouble — economic, war, whatever it is — have just crossed Slovenia, are no military threat, so the reason for banning the referendum from the country’s defence is not at risk. What's left of us is a matter of security. However, there is no evidence in the explanatory statement other than flat-rate indications that the security of the State would be so threatened that constitutional arrangements should therefore be amended. Nor can there be such evidence, because the practice shows the diametric opposite, as suggested by the proponents, the government, the right hand, the coalition and so on. In recent months, for example, Serbia and Macedonia have crossed at least 350 thousand refugees. They've been doing this unorganized for a while, but lately they've been more and more organized with the police escorts. But not in the first and second cases was it not detectable a significant increase in the number of crimes by which you today intimidate the public. After all, Slovenia has recently crossed 150,000 refugees, and we have not seen a significant increase in the number of crimes against the person and property. So all this fear, how our security is threatened, how our families are threatened, and the property of Slovenian citizens simply does not drink water. These are some sensationalist flat-rate statements that serve such and other political agendas and are by no means justified in reality. And even if the situation on the ground were to increase the security risk, but this is not or the Government has not proved it, this does not mean that the granting of police powers to the military is a necessary measure. The necessary measure is only one measure for which there is no better alternative and this is undeniably clear. What we are facing here and in the field today is the fact that the practice, even the practice of our own government, proves that there are alternatives. It is unacceptable, for example, to first grant police powers to the military before the government, coalition or anyone has already taken measures to increase the number of auxiliary police officers. I mean, it's some totally mixed order. There has also been a significant improvement in the border situation with Croatia in recent days, not because of the increase in repression, but because of the reduction of repression. As soon as they began to list people only after they were settled in reception centers, as soon as they were allowed to move from one train to another, those terrible waitings ended in no one's territory and the rumbling of the Sotla River. In the United Left, we oppose the prohibition of a referendum on the Defence Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Matjaž Hanžek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Today, I have heard a great deal about this fear brought by several thousand refugees fleeing the death of unarmed refugees, almost nothing or nothing about why it happened. Some of us who have been in the world for a long time know how things have been happening, how, starting in Africa and later in the Middle East, our European countries, NATO, and so on, have destroyed the infrastructure, not to say that they have been very active in the destruction of 10,000-year-old monuments in Iraq, Syria and so on, our historical and cultural heritage is also said. In these situations, when a few thousand people come in need of international protection for refugees, it would be the task of the Government to calm their passions and not help the Romanian press and some others to spread the fear that is also growing in the spread of hate speech, hatred and the like. I'd like to remind you a little bit of the historical facts of how this happened. I am ten years or more ago when the attack on Iraq has already said that the consequences of this over the years will be felt by people fleeing to Europe, and only then will we find that no one has reacted at the time, no one has condemned the attack on Iraq, Slovenia has even signed that famous elf declaration where Slovenia has seen Iraq armed with nuclear weapons, with war gases and biological gases that no one has ever found. Just an excuse. The planned destruction of civilian infrastructure was all the time fundamental to people's escape. If we just look at Afghanistan in the second half of the '80s. The Americans are training and arming mujahids called Muslims today. The Civil War doesn't end. In 2001, Americans who take sides work for mujahids, then called the Taliban. [[Incomprehensible]] Civil war is on the rise and we wonder why people are running after 30 years. Let me mention the famous Brezinski saying that communism will not be destroyed economically or militarily, but by spreading national and religious hatred. And that's because of everything that's been done for 20, 30 years. Iraq was an American ally against Iran until 1990. The French, the Americans, they arm him, they also pay for and sell war gases to poison their own and other soldiers, and none of them saw any of it wrong because he was on the right side. Now the Islamic State has a third of Iraqi territory. We see them killing and leading people in this Islamic state, and none of them say that Saudi Arabia, which is our ally in the fight against the Islamic State, is beheading more people this year than the Islamic State. But, of course, whoever's on our side can head off, but whoever's not on our side can't. So that no one thinks I support it by accident, absolutely not. Libya, exactly the same, is destroying a country where there are now various tribal alliances. Europe cannot agree on anything because it has no authority there and we are still wondering why people are fleeing. Syria, exactly the same. Long years under the economic embargo, the pressures, the promotion of civil war. If we remember a little more, two more years ago, European leaders called more or less out loud on the rebels to fight President Assad, so they supported the civil war. The country is destroyed, and when people run away from there, of course we are the great victims. I will certainly vote on my conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u122	Thank you very much. I am pleased that a reasonable part or as much as a reasonable part of the policy has been united in trying to stop this referendum. But when I listened to the opposite side, I now felt as if I were listening to a weather forecast in which the predictor would say something like this: Dear viewers and viewers, tomorrow it will be sunny, there will be no clouds in the sky, so you will aim about a hundred liters of rain per square meter. They'd probably say he's a little behind the moon or he's a little weird or something. Let's go in one order. It was said that they only wanted through Slovenia. Go, Mr. Kordish, through Africa in the same way and say you want to come to South Africa without documents and without anything, say you will apply to South Africa for asylum. Every Zumba Republic will shut you down. Now tell me why we would go across Europe without documents, illegally. It doesn't work together. Fugitives. Why don't you read what a fugitive is and explain to yourself what a refugee is and what a migrant is? Migrants are the ones who go to better times in better countries, and the fugitive is the one who flees from war or for other reasons – political persecution, sexual orientation and so on. These are the essential differences between these matters. Don't talk about refugees because they're gone. 69 refugees were sought for asylum in Slovenia, as the minister said yesterday. What about the other 130,000? These are illegals travelling illegally across these countries. They're running from war, someone said. I don't think Mr. Hanzek or anyone else has a clue. Who's that? We can agree that one part of the Syrians. Yes, we can agree. Serbs, Albanians, people from Kosovo. Is there a war? No, no, no. The Germans say they'll return them immediately. Afghanistan, no, Pakistan, no, Iraq, no, Iran, no. So what are you talking about? You say things that don't hold, that aren't right. Asylum seekers can only be from Syria, where war actually breaks out. These could be asylum seekers. And there's something else we need to deal with. These people must also be asked why they do not go to Qatar, the United Arab Emirates, because they are rich countries. Why do they want to go to Europe? And there's a few more to ask. In 1991 — all those between the ages of 18 and 35 years of age — we set up this country together. Even with guns. The Austrians had a whole bunch of refugee camps ready for us Slovenians, and they stayed empty. Why are they empty? Because we stayed here, grabbed the guns, and created this country. Why don't they do it? They could have done that, too. But now we are talking about the enemy speech and the hate speech spoken by the former guardian of human rights. I would be delighted if it were the Ombudsman of all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, after he no longer controlled these functions, this watchman went out here shouting: Down with the Government! Before him there was a protestor who had a large banner that said: Politics in the Barbara trench! And this gentleman clapped. Is that it? Is that it? For some politicians – these were probably the politicians who were in the government – you therefore agree that they should be put in the Barbara trench. Now you're talking about the hate speech. Who in Slovenia speaks animosity about persons entitled to asylum? Who? I practically don't know them. But it's a certain part of people, of course, against all of this. And he's right. So don't be two-faced, if it's sunny, there's no clouds, and 100 liters of rain is going to be a square meter. Just like Mrs. Tomičeva, who screamed, "Messengers to the minimum." How much have you paid back? You haven't returned them yet. So don't be two-faced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u123	Thank you very much. First replica, Mr. Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u124	Thank you very much. I'm not talking about all the charges. I'm talking about one. Yes, I admit that — not only when I was no longer a guardian, but also when I was a guardian — I demonstrated against the National Assembly that Slovenia was helping to attack Iraq. Leave it alone, too. And now we have the consequences. I was the only high-ranking government official who was hoping to speak out so publicly that he opposed the attacks on Iraq. Secondly, if I attended the demonstration – it was not just me, who has been attending more or less of all the demonstrations since 1966 – that does not mean that I wore a banner. If you had seen that transparency about politics and Barbara Rowe, you would have absolutely opposed it. I've seen a lot of things. You know, there are a lot of different people coming to such public events, and not everyone can be held accountable for everyone. Everyone's responsible for their actions. I'm responsible for everything I did at the time and what I said publicly or not. I never claimed that politics or anyone should be put in Barbara's trench. What you have now done to generalize from one particular act to the entire group that has demonstrated is what hate speech means. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Second replica, Mr. Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u126	Thank you very much. On the part of the last debater sitting in the right-wing benches, we were able to hear that all policies, or at least that rational, reasonable policy, have been unified in the amendment of the Law in defence and in the prohibition of the referendum. We socialists in the United Left are obviously falling out of this circle of reasonables. But I would like to point out how obvious this reasonableness is. Today we are discussing the prohibition of a referendum on amendments to the Defence Act. We are also discussing that the latest amendments to the Defence Act constitute an attack on civil liberties and the rights of Slovenian citizens and citizens. But what did we listen to in this last intervention on the part of this unified mental policy? We've heard about raving in Africa, we've heard about Barbara's trench, and we've heard about the weather, and we've heard little or nothing about the changes to the Defence Law and the Referendum Law. On this point, let me point out once again that in the United Left we do not object to the fact that the State mobilises all available resources to remedy and deal with the refugee crisis, but we are opposed to ad hoc changes to the system law overnight, in which case the Defence Act could achieve the same effects without questioning the civil liberties of Slovenian citizens and citizens, by means of an intervention law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The debate, Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u128	Thank you for your word. I didn't want to discuss it, but I have to get back to Mr Gorenak's replicas and findings. In protestors there were different groups, some of them also said'messengers to the minimum', but the United Left has always advocated fair pay for honest work. And what you're doing is sneezing and total falsehood. Why they remained empty collection centres for potential refugees from Slovenia in Austria, I will tell you. Here, for 10 days, our war lasted, but I can read on Twitters of your supporters and thinkers: "I prayed to God that the war in Slovenia would last for at least three months. God didn't listen to me. Today you'd be little Switzerland, you'd be naked," I'm sorry, "crazy, the rest of the red nudity would be shot. It is not said, however, that the time of late reckoning does not come again. ISIS is close. Before I shoot an I.S. member, I'll shoot a redneck gonad. The weapons of 1991 are not missing." Then we also have calls to obtain weapons sheets. How many people are training at this point, respected to be able to shoot their fellow citizens? I keep getting the feeling that our citizens are not safe, that the police and the military are not worried enough about the safety of our citizens, they are calling for the establishment of village guards – and that is not only hate speech, but even hate action. Comrade Gorenak, do not hesitate, for this is all written on Twitters and facebook pages of your members and thinkers. Yesterday, as president of a friendship society with the Netherlands at a business dinner, and there was Ambassador Bart Twalfhoven, who was at the border, who had previously served in Syria, said: "Translate to the National Assembly my praise to all those working at the border crossing. The army, the police, the humanitarians, they're doing the best they can. Such peace, order and dignity of these refugees, even if they are migrants, forgive, even migrants have the right to a better life, and we Slovenians have been in the history of migrants many times. Where would you come from if you treated us the way you want to treat refugees and migrants? There was also the Vatican nunsia of his Excellency Julius Janus, who said, "Bring my praises to the National Assembly, for they are exemplaryly cooperating with humanitarians, with Karitas." I've been to the border, too, and I must say, I can speak with all praise about our officers. Of course, they need to be given more resources, and I hope that when the next budget is adopted, we will take care of those people who share the fate of these refugees, because they are also frozen with them, they are on dry food as well as refugees, and they are also after 15 hours out in the rain and cold. These are our people who defend our borders with dignity. But not with weapons, there is no need for weapons, respected, because bare-eared refugees are not a security threat to Slovenia. But they are a security threat to Slovenia, and I will stress once again the fear of people and the urge to take care of their own safety, because they are in some kind of health danger that their homes are at risk, their property. None of this is true, Your Honor. People want to go across Slovenia and no fences, no weapons and no shooting will help us, because people are like a river, they always find their way. And they find a way into a better and better life, and no wall and no ideology will stop them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u129	Anybody else want to discuss this? Anyone else besides that? [[No, no, ……]] The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u130	Thank you for your word. In order to stop legal migrants, Australia is proof that it is necessary to implement its own laws and regulations consistently. Europe and Slovenia also have this instant problem because, of course, it does not respect its own legal order. With full responsibility, I say that it is not a policy, not here, not in Europe, which would have this mandate from the electorate. It's a very interesting thing. We'll say more tomorrow. What I came by for is this. That today and in the past days people in Slovenia can sleep peacefully, thanks only to those groups of people in uniform, the police and the military, together with all those who were involved in activities that were at the border of their lives, their backs and their health set for everyone else. They deserve all the gratitude and gratitude and all the support. The support we wanted to give them was also through a law that defined additional powers. I personally wanted it to be even more precisely defined, and the SDS proposal was such, it was not adopted, but we supported the law. Why? Because it is essential to establish and do everything possible to enable people to live peacefully and safely. The moment is, don't be fooled. There was no problem with the transition, and the problem will be when they start coming back and the borders will really close. Then there'll be a problem. And for that time, everything needs to be done today. That is why, of course, I will also vote in favour of the decision before us. But I am reminding you of the following, which may be just a well-intentioned wish, however. It would have been nice if the Slovenian policy, which, due to the collective 'virancing' in the past years, did not want to hear this, but considered if this was such a good change in the constitution that was made by the referendum and would not have gone in the direction of the Swiss model referendum, which I had warned all along. Because in this case, we could have referendums on everything, except what would be constitutionally unacceptable, people would have the first and last words and — which is essential for the case in question — so I warn you today — no abuse of the legislative process is possible there. It is not possible at all because the legislative procedure in Parliament is completely separate from the referendum procedure. It's two completely different things. If the law is adopted in Parliament, the law goes into force, it is in force, it is in force. If people make a different decision later on, then what people have decided is true. Democracy is respected in the highest possible way and, on the other hand, there is no possibility of any abuse, because I say that what has now taken place with regard to this law is simply an abuse of procedure and an abuse to delay the enforcement of what people need. This law needs citizens and citizens for their own safety and, on the other hand, those who, once again, stress their lives, set their health right now for the peace and security of all others, for their protection, because the well-defined rules and powers of these people protect them in the event of any complaints themselves.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u131	Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding a general debate on the proposal for a decision. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the proposal for a decision, no amendments could be tabled at the meeting of the assembly. The decision on the proposal for a decision will take place in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the 23rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by the vote at 2.40 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u132	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the votes of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the operation of the voting apparatus. We continue with the adjourned 2nd item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the bill amending the Law on Organising and Working in the Police by Emergency Procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 4. 11. 2015, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to Article 1. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The amendment tabled by the Non-Aligned Members is worth supporting for a simple reason because the Ministry has clearly overlooked the fact that, if this amendment were not adopted by the police, those who do not have conditions could be employed. For example, they are convicted of crimes or other crimes, such as members of political parties, which they must not be. That's why he says this amendment should be supported. I hope our amendment is still in play. We'll back it up. Further on, if I take advantage of this time, but also for a fundamental reason, because our amendment essentially legalizes what's happening at the border, because now we have some people there who are wearing uniforms, and they're not even cops. We got some people wearing uniforms that aren't cops and they don't have police powers. These are the ones in Tanc who went to school, and the secretary sent them down there. And our amendment makes it legal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u134	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u135	Thank you for your word. The morning debate on the subject was quality, I hope. Unfortunately, we were less involved. In the United Left, we'll support both amendments, and I'll come back to you on the other. The amendment proposed by the Group of Non-Aligned Members partially tackles some of the staffing shortages of the police force. As I have already said in the debate, I have placed on the heart of the executive to see the United Left better and it would be more correct for these people who qualify for retirement to actually extend their regular employment in the police force, to be in the police force and not so-called auxiliaries. Nevertheless, we will support this amendment, and I hope that in the near future – eventually, the executive power will be put in the basement for a few days – we will get a package of intervention legislation that will regulate all of this and something else, which we discussed this morning. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u136	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, Dr. Bojan Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u137	Thank you. All those who accompany this meeting are respected! In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we will support both proposals. It is a nation-building and constructive attitude of the opposition. We are proposing a better solution, just because the coalition is late, we have had too little time to come up with a quality proposal, so we are proposing to support these changes, which are improving the situation and will help to regulate the situation. However, I wonder whether the coalition really wants to come to the point of helping the police at the border, because I do not think that these changes will achieve great success because of the mistakes made in this regard, as we have seen in the implementation of the Defence Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u138	Is there any other explanation for the voice? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Group, Mrs Anita Kolesh.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Members and Members of the Party of the modern amendment centre proposed by the Non-Aligned Members will not be supported. We appreciate the efforts made by opposition Members to improve this law. We regret that the members of the Group of Non-Aligned Members were not present yesterday at a meeting of the Committee, where perhaps these matters could be reconsidered more broadly and more deeply. We believe that this is about the unconstitutionality of the amendment, and this cannot be the reason for us to support this amendment. In the second part, where it seems to us that the proposal for an increase to 65 years may be a good one to rehash, I say, but we have no reason to support this, because it seems to us that this increase, proposed by the Government, from 40 to 60 and from 50 to 60, is an entirely appropriate age limit.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u140	We vote on the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to Article 1. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 43. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the United Left Group, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u141	Thank you for saying that again. I myself participated fairly constructively and actively on behalf of the United Left yesterday at a committee meeting. Members of the SMC and everyone else have easily supported some other decision in the roof legislation concerning defence, which, following the warning of many, was unconstitutional. As I have said many times, Parliament is not a debate circle, but it is obvious that this moral theology is continuing. There's a difference between theology and telelogy. Parliament is supposed to be telelogical, in short, to take some measures that are urgent in the police field, as we warned a year ago. The SDS Group Amendment – I admit that I was skeptical about this yesterday, we did a whole series of interviews. It is a fact, as the SDS Member would say, of cadets who have already acted on the ground in some semi-legal state, but obviously for SMC this is not problematic. There could be some kind of radio out there that might give you a problem. We want this to work out. After all, it is a group of 240 young people who are already at the end of school and who somehow need them. With everything that's going on, after all, quite a few uniformed police officers have literally collapsed, are now in hospital and will receive 80% of their salary for the prize. This too should be considered, but the obvious view of this call of the National Assembly also grieves the natural state. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u142	Any other explanation for the voice? We vote on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 43. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended with the vote being the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that due to amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. We're voting. 79 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Request for a Legislative Referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations or the Proposal for a Decree on the invitation to a Legislative Referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. Since no amendments have been tabled to the motion for a decree, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u143	Thank you, Mr. President. Today, the National Assembly adopts a decree that should not, in fact, be, or should not be, decided on. Why? Because it is a decree in which the majority will decide in the minority, and above all, it will be a referendum on human rights. Today, we are deciding on a decree that literally violates Article 90 of the Constitution as amended by the legislator and is based on a non-contential and long-standing technical decision of the Constitutional Court and on the fact that this same Constitutional Court has been set up both over the Constitution and over the will of the constitutionalist, who has also made this amendment. Nevertheless, this referendum has now become a fact. We're faced with that. While in the United Left we were prepared to land on that first date that was proposed, it is January 10th, with which we had neither formal nor legal problems, precisely in the light of the fact that this is in some way necessary to be done legally. 20. 12. Of course, it is a date that is not acceptable, not only because this deadline would be too short, but mainly because it means subjecting itself to the wishes of the initiators. Today, we have heard or seen what the campaign on this referendum will bring from opposers of the elimination of discrimination. It will bring a set of lies, deceptions, and, above all, something that is probably the most frightening, and it is a hate speech. I think that equality before the law can be nothing more than a constitutional category that means nothing more than fundamental human rights. This is exactly the spirit of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, and it is said that all citizens will become equal before marriage. For these reasons, and especially because of what we have already heard in the debate today, we will vote against the decree in the United Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u144	Any other explanation first at the level of the parliamentary groups? [[No, no, ……]] A self-explanation of the voice, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u145	Thank you for your word. I will vote against this for the reasons stated by my colleague Matthew on behalf of the United Left. Because we're going to do this because there's going to be 3.5 million euros for what shouldn't be, but I'd like to put the next one on my heart. Let us take a look at the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, which all families exist in Slovenia, then let us think about it and let us be in some debate that will be unfavorable. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u146	A self-explanation of the vote, Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u147	I will vote in favour of the decision to hold the referendum. We always refer to the need to respect the Court's decisions and to respect it this time. I am pleased that a referendum will be held, because the right to adopt children is not a human right. We, too, want the status of same-sex partnerships to be regulated in the already existing Law on Registration of the same-sex community and to eliminate all that is incompatible with the Constitution. I am protesting that we are in the future condemned for discrimination, discrimination, hate speech and so on. It is those who inspire us to speak hate speech themselves most often because they do not allow us to have our own opinions and beliefs. I am in favour of the confirmation of the decision, for the referendum and I think that this law has been adopted completely undemocraticly, following an emergency procedure and against the will of the people who have rejected such a way or this type of relationship with the possibility of adopting children at the referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u148	Gradually, Luca Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u149	It's quite short. It was a controversy, not an explanation of the voice, so please warn me next time.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u150	There's no replica on the procedure. Gradually, Mrs. Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u151	My debate, my explanation of vote, was also the answer to what came from your client.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u152	Please calm down. Is there any other explanation for the voice? Voice explanation, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u153	Thank you for your word. I will vote against it, of course, and here is my explanation of vote. No referendum concerning fundamental human rights is acceptable to us. In the developing world, in Europe 21. For centuries, same-sex couples, of course, have the opportunity to have children. They also have modern methods to reach these children — with surrogate mothers, with fertilization, with biomedical help, and so on. We're still playing in some ideology, I'll say, I'm sorry, medieval, that only a child can be conceived by a mother and a father. The same-sex couples must have the same rights because the Constitution guarantees all citizens equal rights before the law. This referendum will, of course, be, no matter what we think, and of course we will respect the Constitutional Court's decision, no matter what we think about it, but, of course, the least we can do is vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u154	Voice explanation, Dr. Jasna Murgel.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u155	Thank you very much. I'm against the referendum because I don't think it should be. But since the Constitutional Court has ruled differently and has said that the referendum must be, I will respect this decision and vote in favour of the referendum decision. For I believe that the institution which must respect these decisions of the Constitutional Court is the National Assembly and we cannot afford not to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u156	A self-explanation of the voice, Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u157	Thank you very much. It is indeed necessary to respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court, but I think that the Constitutional Court should also think about the content, not issue an empty, just a technical decision. On the empty technical decisions which, of course, command the National Assembly to continue to confirm the empty technical decision, I will oppose. The second thing I'm going to do against is to mix the right to adoption, which I agree with, is not human rights. It is not a human right for anyone to adopt a child, but the right of a child to be adopted by loving parents, who can be many, not just diversified. That's what this is about. It is that same-sex people are not treated in the same way as diversified. That is why discrimination is at stake, and that is why, of course, I will oppose it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u158	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u159	Thank you very much. But the best thing to do in the National Assembly is to hear that someone is against it, but they have to vote in favour. Under the Constitution, we vote as we think it is right. The Constitutional Court and no one else can tell us how we are going to vote, so this is the diversion that we are listening to today. You who will allow this referendum, not the Constitutional Court. However, it should be signed by the Constitutional Court, as it established the congregation, and it should also be signed by the National Assembly. Since she's not here, she's the Constitutional Court. It's really a trick. I'm not up for it, but oh, there's nothing else I can do. I will, of course, vote against myself for the first time.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u160	An explanation of the voice in his own name, Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Of course I'll vote against it. The decisions of the Constitutional Court shall be respected. Here. But human rights are also respected. And when these two principles, these two respects and recognitions come into conflict, the question is what will we decide here. I'm going to make my own decision, or I've already made up my mind, and I've chosen what's universal, what's truly human, what goes beyond all human society in this world, these are human rights. Because of my decision in favour of human rights, I oppose the call for a referendum on these human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u162	Is there any other explanation? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 60 votes against 11. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against 11.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision rejecting the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the Law supplementing the Law on Defence. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the proposal for a decision, the amendment could not be tabled at the meeting, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u163	Thank you for your word. With the Law on the Complementation of the Defence Act, the Government decided when Slovenia reached the migration crisis, overnight and horribly to amend the Defence Act in such a way as to enable the military to obtain police powers. Back then, in the United Left, we immediately warned that this was potentially dangerous because the military and the police were civilised and historically separated for a purpose, and this purpose was that the military could not interfere with internal affairs and that the authorities could not abuse the military for some of their political interests, which unfortunately happened too often in history. So the military is only here to defend the external border, but if it's crossed by unarmed civilians, we can't treat it as an attack or a threat to this border, so we can't engage the military in these cases. Even less, this can be an excuse for the military to get involved in civil affairs, which are by definition a police domain. The government then calculated that the law would be adopted and implemented the following day, but since it was not, it proved unnecessary in the coming days. Ten days ago, people were too wet over Sotlo, and now not anymore. The reason for this is not to change the military's domain; the reasons for this are completely different, namely the agreement with Croatia, the simplification of procedures for the registration of refugees, the construction of a new platform in Shentil, the efforts of humanitarian workers, police officers and others who are solving this crisis. We are therefore dealing with a logistical, humanitarian and organisational problem, not one in which the military should intervene. Finally, what we are taking today is a decision to reject the invitation to a legislative referendum on this issue, unfortunately, is still unconstitutional. We have a potentially dangerous law that is unnecessary, and you are proposing that we should not be able to decide on it at the referendum, which is unconstitutional on top of that. Article 90 of the Constitution newly prohibits referendums on defence-related issues where the legislator has previously shown that there are no alternatives. Here, however, the legislator and the executive have already shown in several cases that, despite this law, we can manage this crisis perfectly normally, which is a sufficient argument, why we do not need this law and why this decision should be rejected today. We can't afford to live in a country where we can decide human rights at the referendum, but we can't decide whether or not the military will start distributing. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u164	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? [[No, no, ……]] Explanation of the vote on behalf of Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u165	Thank you for your word. A long time ago, I read Seneca as a freshman, which I remembered now that I had listened to an explanation for the voice of the leader of the Group. It was a Serbian translation from Nolit. It said, "Stay away from the crowd." The translation would be: Avoid the crowds. But of course, don't avoid the crowd because you're afraid of it, but at the level of these psychos of this kind of collective opinion. With what Luke said, constitutional matter, contrary to the Constitution, of course, I sat in quite a few of these sessions. This morning we said solutions – intervention legislation, the completion of the police workforce, Bojan also talked about how students who go out of education would be prepared in a few weeks' time for such matters. It's a way of thinking that I personally cultivate, and I will also cultivate it if I'm the last chicken in the world, alone, who's going to peck her own. That is why I will vote against it. And somehow I'm saddened by this "inconceivable." So easily you accepted and applauded a fisscot, the same kind of roof legislation. In fact, I'm very afraid of this, not just me and not just the experts, even the thinking people in this country. Now I will not ask you to imagine that Mrs Slug will not start shouting again because I am concerned about her health. But I'll think about it and you'll think about it. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u166	Explanation of the voice in its own name, Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u167	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I would like to say in this National Assembly that this is now a special situation. It is the security of citizens and citizens. That's why it's necessary to engage an army. I suggest you go to Shentyl and you see what happens there when even volunteers are at risk. Last night, the Red Cross volunteers told me on the phone what Mr. Gorenak is there, it's funny to you, but I really think those police officers who have been taking care of order for so long in these difficult situations have been exhausted and need the help of an army with special tasks. [[…]] She's not going to do gun work there, but they told the volunteers that when a soldier shows up, everything's quiet when he's gone, and we know how and what. I am confident that with a clear conscience I will support this decision rejecting the invitation to a legislative referendum on the Law supplementing the Law on Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u168	Procedurally, Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u169	Thank you for your word. And I'm very concerned if there are really volunteers armed in Shentil. We want to know if that's true, ma'am, because if everyone can walk around with a gun on behalf of some kind of security, then I, excuse me, feel very insecure in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u170	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mr Matjaž German.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u171	Thank you, Mr. President. I think that things are serious and that is why a serious approach is needed. It is certain that we must bear in mind that we are strengthening our humanitarian attitude towards refugees, migrants or whatever we want to name them, including capacities. Our capacities have been limited so far, police will have to rest, humanitarian workers will have to rest and the army will be able to do so with limited powers and with limited operating time. Those who do not know and see another story have every right to vote against it. But I think the vast majority here responds very soberly and responsibly in the light of the circumstances. I, too, will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u172	An explanation of the voice in his own name, Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u173	Thank you for your word. What we are facing today is sober and responsible absurd. On the one hand, the coalition is forcing amendments to the Defence Act, which interfere with and reduce civil liberties for our fellow citizens and fellow citizens, and on the other hand we are opposed to amendments that would further strengthen the police in all its capabilities. In the United Left, we will vote against this because the three key constitutional conditions for banning the referendum are not met. Firstly, the threat of the State and citizens has not increased significantly, this has proved to be very good in practice both in the case of Slovenia and in some other countries, because there has been no significant increase in the number of crimes. This is not a result of police supervision, because even when refugees traveled alone, such as in Serbia, serious security problems did not occur. Secondly, even if the applicants proved that the security risk was increased – but they did not – they were only swindling with general claims – this does not mean that the granting of police powers to the military is a necessary measure. The necessary measure is one which cannot be avoided, which is inevitable, for which there is no better alternative. But here too, the practice, even the practice of our own government, proves that there are alternatives. In recent days, for example, there has been a significant improvement in the situation at the border with Croatia, not because of the increase in repression, but because of the reduction of repression. As soon as people began to register only after their accommodations in reception centres, as soon as they were allowed to switch from one train to another, the terrible waiting in no one’s territory and the wandering of the Sotla River was over. In short, there are certain options and alternatives to adopting changes to the Systemic Defence Act. If we want to mobilise all the resources of this country in order to address the refugee crisis in order to make it possible for us to have a normal life, also for our citizens and citizens, there is no need for changes to the Systemic Defence Act. There are alternatives such as intervention law [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-04-SDZ7-Izredna-23.ana.u174	Any other explanation for the voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 71 votes against 6. [[The vote was 71.]] [[Against six.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. This concludes this agenda item I am adjourning the 23rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 2 p.m.
