ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 21st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened under Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs. Nada Brinovšek, Mrs. Erika Dekleva, Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, Dr. Milan Brglez between 15.30 and 17.30 p.m. Franc Trček, Mr Matjaž Germany, Mr Roberto Battelli, Dr László Göncz, Mr Saša Tabaković from 16:00 on, Mr Igor Zorčič, Mr Marjan Dolinšek, Mr Tomaž Lisec and mag. Branislav Rajić. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 21st Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 9 October 2015 by reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 21st Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, this is on the eve of a proposal for a recommendation in relation to all the poorer categories of Slovenia on international scales that measure the respect for human rights, the effectiveness of the rule of law and the economic system. The proposal for a recommendation was tabled by a group of 27 Members and Members with Mr Jozet Tanke, the first to be signed. In order to further explain the proposal, I first give the floor to the representative of the Magi proposal. Mark Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u2	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues, colleagues! On the basis of the favourable results of the data on economic growth and favourable estimates on economic growth, the Government of Mir Cerar welcomed in future that these are the results and forecasts of the results of its good work. In doing so, of course, silence the factors that have contributed most to these results. This is an increase in exports due to the global economic recovery and good response of the Slovenian economy to the current market situation; the emerging financial perspective from 2007 to 2013, where most of the projects financed by European money were completed in 2014 and this year; the adoption of the Public Finance Balance Act adopted by the Government of Janez Janša and the aim of which was to balance public spending with what we create, which is a prerequisite for establishing healthy and long-term economic growth; and the positive results of the pension reform that was also adopted during the second government of Janez Janša. None of what has contributed most to Slovenian economic growth is the result of the good work of the Government of Mir Cerar. The best picture of where certain countries are in the area of social and economic issues is shown by international scales measuring respect for human rights, the effectiveness of the rule of law and the economic system. They are prepared by respected and independent international institutions and organisations. In Slovenia, the economic model was set up by a transition left at the head of Forum 21 and with the support of its loyal media. This model is characterised by the excessive role of the State, the interference of policies with the economy, the prioritisation of redistributive and pre-development policies, the postponement of structural reforms in the name of social peace, and in particular the policy of national interest, which prevents the privatisation of state property. However, that small state property, which is being privatized, is becoming increasingly privatized or privatized in a controversial way. In the report Economic Freedom of the World 2014, Slovenia shared 105th place with Sierra Leone among 152 countries, and in the report Economic Freedom of the World 2015 it further deteriorated and became 111th place between 157 countries, together with Nigeria and China. Slovenia is lagging behind countries such as Vietnam, Namibia, Russia and Tanzania on this scale. As the economically least free country of the European Union throughout Europe, only Ukraine is lagging behind, which is undoubtedly a complete disgrace and a blessing for the Republic of Slovenia. The ranking of Slovenia on the World Economic Forum shows the same picture as in the previous two mentioned scales. The Global Competitiveness Report is one of the most important publications on the reconciliation of international competitiveness. The Geneva World Economic Forum has been issuing a report since 1997 and Slovenia has been included since 2001. Since 2005, the calculation of the competitiveness of the World Economic Forum has been based on a global competitiveness index. This is a comprehensive index covering both microeconomic and macroeconomic aspects of national competitiveness, and competitiveness is defined as a set of policy institutions, factors that determine the level of productivity. Significantly, the 2014-2015 report states that Slovenia is among 144 countries after government effectiveness. According to this criterion, the place is placed before Greece. With regard to whether government decisions are impartial or favoured, Slovenia is in 111th place. As far as the government is concerned, it's 133rd. With regard to the financial burdens on government decisions, Slovenia is in 133rd place. Only according to the criteria of transparency of government decisions is the 55th place. Also on the competitiveness scale prepared by the Swiss Institute, Slovenia has achieved the worst ranking in almost all areas relating to the Government or the state apparatus. With regard to bureaucrat data, we have occupied 56th place among 61 countries. We are even last in the area of taxation of natural persons, and we are 58th in relation to environmental legislation. The classification of foreign direct investment, where Slovenia is 59th place, is also problematic. According to the attractiveness of highly qualified foreign personnel, we are 59th and, according to the effectiveness of the supervisory boards in the supervision of the administrations, 61st. The Swiss Institute made five recommendations to improve competitiveness: reform of the health system, reform of tax legislation, competitiveness and indebtedness of state-owned enterprises, establishment of a business-friendly environment and fiscal consolidation. For comparison only, when Janša's first government ended in 2008, Slovenia ranked 32nd and today we are at 49th. Furthermore, it should be pointed out that Slovenia also skates on the scales in the field of justice or justice. It is undeniable that the rule of law, efficiency and impartial judiciary are also important for the development of the economy. The worrying situation in the Slovenian judiciary is thus a central Slovenian development problem, which is increasingly pressing. Measures, not just cosmetic corrections, are therefore necessary. A recent survey of the World Economic Forum shows that Slovenia ranks 91st in the area of independence of the judiciary from 144, directly for Montenegro and Iran. This is certainly a worrying information, as confidence in the judiciary is an important foundation in the field of the rule of law. An analysis entitled Building Trust in Justice Systems in Europe of 21 November 2013, published by the European Commission, shows that the judiciary in Slovenia enjoys the lowest degree of trust among all European Union countries. The analysis has shown that 24% of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia trust the justice system in Slovenia, but does not trust the record 73%. We are not only alerting the alarming situation in Slovenian justice, but also warning from abroad, at all levels. This is not only a matter of criticism at the expense of the credibility and impartiality of the judiciary, but also of the inefficiency of the judiciary. The results of this year's report by the European Commission on the review of the state of justice in the European Union for Slovenia show that Slovenia spends the most money on justice in the European Union and has the highest number of judges per 100,000 inhabitants. It is particularly worrying, however, that the already low level of perception of the independence of the judiciary has deteriorated in recent years. According to the World Economic Forum, the rate of perceived independence of the courts in Slovenia declined from 2010 to 2013. Regardless of the fact, we have made two recommendations, as proponents of the Slovenian Democratic Party, to be adopted by the National Assembly. However, the coalition voting apparatus has unfortunately rejected these recommendations on the parent working body which examined this report. However, the general public must also take note of the recommendations proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, but rejected by the coalition voting machine. The first recommendation is that the National Assembly recommends to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, instead of exposing economic growth, which is not at all due to its work, to engage in the preparation of serious structural reforms, notably in the field of justice, health, public administration, pension system and labour relations, which will repair Slovenia's shameful classifications on international scales that measure respect for human rights, the effectiveness of the rule of law and the economic system. Secondly, the National Assembly recommends that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, together with the judiciary, examine and propose measures to establish greater transparency in the work of the judiciary, its greater effectiveness, the reduction of proceedings, independent and impartial decision-making in judicial proceedings and the restoration of confidence in justice. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the Government of Mir Cerar should take these recommendations into account for the benefit of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u3	In order to further explain the proposal, I also give the floor to the representative of the proposalr, Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! Why the New Slovenia Group has contributed signatures to the debate on the recommendations and, of course, to the adoption of recommendations at the meeting of the National Assembly concerning the deteriorating classifications of Slovenia on international scales that measure respect for human rights, the effectiveness of the rule of law and the economic system. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we want Slovenia to become the best country in the world, so we have signed. Because we want to finally do something with all of you, colleagues and colleagues, together with the Government and other institutions in Slovenia that will contribute to a more environmentally friendly citizen and citizen environment, to a more environmentally friendly business environment that will allow for the easier and faster development of our companies, which, I underline, will create a better environment for our families. That's what this is about. These are our Slovenian families, which include the best Slovenian farms, the best Slovenian companies, family companies. And finally, for those families where a new life begins, or when I look through the public financial prism, where new taxpayers are created and born. That is why we have contributed our signature and we want a frank, open debate on this because I believe that we must set our highest goals. Let us be and become one of the best countries in the world. As it goes now, it can't go on. I say that with all my responsibility. We have options, we have resources, we have fantastic individuals who are capable of raising this country to the highest level. We no longer want to watch Slovenia on the tail of various scales. There are some positive movements and we must be proud of these movements, but we cannot be satisfied, nevertheless, because we are more or less in the lower parts of the various scales that I will not list here. We need a new economic policy if we are to have no brain drain or brain drain if we want our families to grow, to develop, to have more joy in life. That is why we need a new economic policy. We need a state of law. Long ago, in 2012 we were presented with this requirement in front of the National Assembly, the Slovenian economy. On this, colleagues and colleagues, we have done virtually nothing. When we look at the budgetary documents ahead of us for the next two years, we see that, in fact, there is no political will on the government side in order to actually carry out some necessary reforms. Here is our call to look together for solutions that we must take immediately and that will allow for steps towards once the best country in the world, namely Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u5	The proposal for a recommendation is 7. Ten. 2015 discussed by the Committee on Justice. As the Committee did not adopt the points of the proposal for a recommendation after the discussion, the Chairman of the Committee concluded that the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation at the meeting of the working body had been completed. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Ms Ksenija Korenjak Kramar, Vice-President.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u6	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Justice Committee is at its 13th emergency session. Ten. 2015 The proposal for a recommendation on the deteriorating classifications of Slovenia on international scales measuring respect for human rights, the effectiveness of the rule of law and the economic system submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first signed by Mr Jozet Tank and published on the website of the National Assembly in the Rapporteur of 29. 9. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Mr Mag, on behalf of the applicant, gave an additional explanation. Branko Grims said that the current economic growth is not due to the good work of the government of Mir Cerar, but to the measures taken during the government of Janez Janša. The position of Slovenia in the social and economic sphere is best demonstrated by the international scales. For example, the economic freedom scale shows that Slovenia is the least economically free country of the European Union. The proposaler also sees Slovenia’s classification as problematic in relation to foreign direct investment at the Swiss Institute of IMD, which has made several recommendations for improving competitiveness. According to the proposaler, Slovenia is also going down on the justice scales, with the applicant pointing out that the rule of law and the effective impartial and fair judiciary are also important for the development of the economy. The representative of the Legislature pointed out that part of the text of the first paragraph of the recommendation was a finding, so it is part of the explanation of the act, and in the second paragraph should be replaced by a more appropriate word, since it is not suitable for the text of the act adopted by the National Assembly. The Ministry of Justice has pointed out the possibility of different interpretations of data which may be contrary to the purpose of their collection. According to the Ministry, the material under consideration does not show current data and the situation is not as critical as the applicant is trying to present it. A representative of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology presented the measures taken by the Government to support entrepreneurship. The representatives of the Supreme Court pointed out that, at the Supreme Court, such reports were constantly monitored with a view to improving their functioning and that some were involved in the preparation of such reports. They noted that such reports often also contain guidelines on how data collection should not be used to avoid misinterpretation and subjective assessments, and also presented some current political data on the effectiveness of the judiciary. In the debate, the coalition Members considered that the applicant wished to present outdated data on the basis of its subjective choice and interpretation. They presented some other international research that shows Slovenia as a democratic country that respects human rights. They pointed out that the Committee, at the proposal of the same proposer, had repeatedly addressed the situation in the Slovenian judiciary and found that the situation was improving. The opposition Members felt that the current data would show a bad picture of the Slovenian economy and of the judiciary and therefore called for the preparation of appropriate reforms as soon as possible that would contribute to the well-being of Slovenia and its citizens. In accordance with Articles 128 and 171 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on both points of the proposal together and did not adopt them. On the basis of the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second paragraph, Article 61 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Chairman of the Committee noted that the proposal for a recommendation for the increasingly poor classification of Slovenia on international scales measuring respect for human rights, the effectiveness of the rule of law and the economic system had been completed on the home working body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u7	For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Mrs Tina Brecelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A good greeting to the Messengers and the Messengers! About one month ago, a non-governmental organisation based on the statistics of the European Court of Human Rights discussed the inclusion of Slovenia in this meeting at an extraordinary meeting. Statistics containing data for 2014 were published already in March this year. The appropriateness of the methodology was discussed, explaining on which systemic problem the European Court of Human Rights rulings had actually been alerted and what only purposeful interpretations of official data were. Today, a month later, the debate at the extraordinary session is again on data, statistics, comparisons. This time data are older, the youngest data are from 2013. Although most reports and scales have a 2015 anniversary, this is true, but more detailed reading shows that they are based on older data, with some new scales available today. Slovenia has thus climbed the World Economic Forum and a newer Doing Business will be published at the end of the month. We can agree that different indices and statistics are only indicative indicators of the situation in each area, as they also reflect unfair and non-economic factors such as confidence in the legal system or a sense of economic freedom and so on. However, the fact that different indices, which have different methodologies for data collection and analysis, show different images. Therefore, statistical generalisation must not and cannot show the actual situation in specific areas. Similar warnings are given in each such report or are recorded in small print on each scale. First of all, let me mention that there was a lot of debate in the State Assembly on the state of justice if I go first here, or on the so-called Justice Scoreboard. Finally, last May this year, when a continuous and gradual improvement in 'the functioning of the judiciary' was identified, the review also showed for 2015. With regard to the report Economic Freedom of the World 2015 and the classification of the Republic of Slovenia, let me explain that Slovenia did indeed fall on the scale. By the way, a fall in the United States was also observed in foreign media. However, the division or a more detailed review of our assessment shows how we have cut ourselves off in specific areas, and this division shows that the area of the legal system and property rights is ranked at the highest level in the fields, with an estimate of 6.0. In fact, this report is a summary of several studies by other international organisations, so certain results of Slovenia from one scale are copied and also used in others. If we look at Slovenia's multi-annual scoring in the annual reports of economic freedom of the world, it is possible to see relatively small movements, which does not show a drastic reduction as the proponents want to show. There are a number of international scales on which Slovenia ranks differently. For example, if we look at the Index of Human Freedom published in August this year, Slovenia is ranked 41st in 152, by dividing the index into two criteria, personal freedom and economic freedom. According to the criteria of personal freedom, for example, Slovenia is ranked 12th. The Rule of Law Index also ranks Slovenia 28th in 102 ranked, data are for 2014. In this regard, we are even 20th in the categories of fundamental rights, in the category of criminal justice in the 24th and in the category of civil justice in the 25th place. Slovenia is relatively high in some other indices. Let me draw attention to the Quality of Life Index, which is probably the most important to citizens. We are ranked 2nd among the countries of southern Europe and for Spain, and among all European countries, we are ranked 13th from 29. However, among all the countries concerned after this index, we have occupied 22nd place from 57 countries. A variety of international scales and indices, therefore. And the classification of Slovenia in them is far from shame and shame. It is, however, the fact that the applicants are calling for an extraordinary meeting in September 2015 – now in October, the reference was in September – that they are based on data from 2013 and the elderly, with the expected new report of the World Economic Forum being published in the meantime and the new Doing Business, both with newer data, will be published in the short term. When it comes to justice, several recognitions of Slovenian justice have already been received in the past, including the Council of Europe's crystal technique in 2010 and 2012. Finally, in the publication Quality of Public Administration – A Toolbox for Practicers, published in April this year as an example of good practice, the data warehouse and the President's records were highlighted by the European Commission. With regard to the scales based on data before 2013, it should be pointed out that this is a talk about the times of another government. However, if I return to the current government, I would not like to repeat the measures that only this government has taken to ensure that Slovenia will climb different scales in the future. You have all received them in government material, some of them presented, as we have heard, also on the Committee on Justice, and I am also sure that you have closely monitored the work of this government in the past year. We have examined the recommendations of the Group of Members and Members, and we do not support them, as the situation in the country is not as critical as regular extraordinary meetings are trying to show. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u9	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u10	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Let me begin by mentioning that the Social Democrats of Slovenia are seen as a country that will win in the category of high quality of life, where priorities will be focused on human security and dignity; safe and connected communities; a dynamic economy powered by excellence, knowledge and creativity; where equal opportunities are self-sustaining and provided by society, with a capable administration and effective public sector in education, health, culture and sport; where natural data and resources are protected. Social Democrats believe that it is necessary to make wrong decisions or, if you want, the abuses that have occurred in our society and unfortunately are still happening, for which citizens and citizens have also paid "well up", as we often say in our discussions, we also learn something. Our efforts and support are aimed at improving the functioning of all subsystems of our society, including the justice system. Why am I bringing this up? Since the proposaler puts a lot of words into the text again to the judiciary and the judiciary and states that in Slovenia we have the highest number of judges per 100,000 inhabitants. This candidate cannot recall in any way when the number of judges has increased. In the 2008 Annual Court Report – we consider these to be reliable data – we can read that the number of judges jumped to 969 judges in 2005. In 2004 there were 776. The explanation of table 39 of that report states that it is necessary to take into account in the analysis of staff data that the judicial staff plan has increased solely as a result of the reform of criminal law and the associated involvement of offenders. So, if we are calculating, in 2004 there were around 38.8 judges per 100,000 inhabitants, and in 2005, there were almost 50 more judges, and by the end of the 2008 mandate. Applicants speak again about the impartiality of the trial and the appearance of impartiality. Respectful, where is impartiality in deciding on the human rights of minorities, such as in Roma, deleted, sexually oriented, family matters? Do you perhaps feel that this is unknown on the scales that assess human rights? We have already stressed several times that all the anomalies, not only in the judiciary, must be eliminated. However, the continuous attack on one of the branches of government, thereby creating the appearance of the inability of the judiciary and the rule of law, certainly not only contributes to the fall on international scales that measure the effectiveness of the rule of law, but also affects respect for human rights and the economic system. In fact, all the scales made by different international institutions should be placed on a common denominator, evaluated impartially and thus found the right place in Slovenia in a society of diverse countries. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps the fall on the various scales has also helped to face the economic and economic crisis, which has shown its courage in the world since 2007 and continued in 2008. She also struck in Slovenia with a delay. Ladies and gentlemen, this crisis did not occur because of workers and workers in the public and private sectors, but mainly because of the management competition, who has more, and with the support of the holders of the then government, perhaps some part of the public. During the so-sung economic growth and growth of gross domestic product by as much as 6.9%, "the most successful government in Slovenia" was unable to save anything for the coming crisis or for the worst times. Moreover, it has managed to defuse the wealthiest tax burdens and thus has contributed to a financial hole that, even as a result of the crisis, we have not been able to fill today. Your Honor! It is not wrong for the government to look under the fingers, what it does and how it does it, but it is very wrong if someone constantly tries to show the country in the worst light and compare it with countries like Venezuela, Sierra Leone, Vietnam, Namibia and so on. Which one of you would like to live there? Social Democrats want Slovenia to become a society in which we participate and complement each other and thus contribute to greater prosperity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u11	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u12	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! We are at a time when the National Assembly is considering budgetary legislation that will have a significant impact on the lives of the people of this country over the next two years. The Slovenian Hand is using this moment again for neoliberal propaganda. Instead of directing all efforts to ensure that the budget we accept is as socially fair and as developmental as possible, today we will discuss the inclusion of Slovenia on some neoliberal scales for which they are hiding, we all know what interests. The moment is very carefully chosen. The Hand feels that Finance Minister Marble is on her side, that Prime Minister Cerar is following him and that the remaining coalition parties will, as always, prefer to give up their seats in the government. The Hand knows that this is the moment when it is possible to win some kind of capital concession. First, we need to ask ourselves what recommendations and what kind of charts we are talking about today. Today, the National Assembly will discuss recommendations that are all based on the economic freedom scale. This scale is produced by the Fraser Institute's quasin-dependent institution, which is not even secretly funded by multinationals, such as Philip Morris, and was founded by the father of neoliberalism Milton Friedman. We will therefore discuss the scales on which Jordan, Chile and Georgia are ranked dozens of cities in front of Norway, Sweden and Iceland. You heard right, on this scale, I have it right here, Jordan 7, Chile 10, and 12. On the other hand, Norway is 27th, Sweden is 42nd, and Iceland is only 85th. If we look at other indicators, Jordan has $5,000,400 GDP per capita, Sweden has $58,000 per capita, Sweden is 12. according to the human development index and Jordan has 87. The Fraser Institute placed Jordan in 7th place and Sweden in 2nd place. This index, which we have before us, has nothing to do with reality and even less with social well-being, but relates only to the blind realization of neoliberal doctrines. This distorted image of the world presented to us by this scale is so absurd and transparent that in normal circumstances no serious media and no serious political party would smell it. But obviously we don't live in normal situations. Therefore, when we consider these reports, recommendations that do not even deserve to be made, we must ask ourselves the question of whose interest this propaganda is being pursued and who would benefit from the Government's implementation of these recommendations, or who would benefit from the fact that such recommendations are already being implemented by the government. The answer to the first question is, in whose interest this propaganda is carried out, it is clear - in the interest of capital. Those who have ever compared the classifications of countries on neoliberal scales with the scales that measure development and prosperity on the basis of objective and internationally recognised criteria could be convinced that these scales have nothing to do with development and prosperity. A long time ago, a very interesting statistical comparison of the classification of transition countries on three neoliberal scales was published in economic movements, compared to the ranking on scales produced according to objective economic indicators. Thus, on one side we had the scales of Fraser Institute, the Republic Institute of Heritage and the Institute of the World Economic Forum from Davos. So private neoliberal institutes with a clear international capital back. On the other hand, objective data on standard macroeconomic aggregates such as per capita GDP, employment rate, current balance of payments account status or Gini coefficient measuring income inequality were objective. What did this comparison show? The comparison showed that the classification of transition countries on neoliberal scales is inversely proportional to the performance of these countries according to macroeconomic indicators. Slovenia was, for example, the first in terms of GDP; the first in terms of employment, since it had the lowest unemployment rate; the first in terms of the Gini coefficient, that is, income equality was the lowest in us; the first in terms of the number of patents per million inhabitants; and the payment balance was the third in time; and today it would be the first in all transition countries. How did she fit into the neoliberal scales? Two out of three were the last, and one was the last. So the trend is clear. The more developed, competitive, socially developed, innovative, lower these non-liberal scales are given to us today by the proposer as a recommendation or as an indicator to be followed. The same was true when the study took into account the classification on two less known scales that measure the potential for development and the human development index. The first is the Atlas of Economic Complexity index, which is being prepared at Harvard. There Slovenia even ranked 10th in front of France and the United States. According to the Human Development Index published by the United Nations, it ranked 21st, which means that according to the index prepared by the United Nations, not some private neoliberal institute, Slovenia ranks ahead of all Eastern European and all Southern European countries, even before Italy and France. So the pattern is clear. If we take a group of countries, such as transition countries, which are roughly similar after development, those countries that introduce neoliberal policies are significantly less economically successful, significantly less competitive, significantly less innovative, and particularly less friendly to the common man. Of course, they are ranked higher on the economic freedom scale of Fraser’s Institute if it is to anyone there to be comforted. Therefore, we need to ask ourselves what competitiveness, efficiency and freedom really mean in this neoliberal neone that we are dealing with again today. These three values in the recommendations made by the proposer are of course of course not of the importance they have in society. When neoliberals say competitiveness, competitiveness does not mean what others think of as competitiveness. Competitiveness is the export capacity of the state. The country is competitive when it is able to export, the country is competitive when its exports are higher than imports. However, for neoliberals, competitiveness does not mean export capacity, but it means exclusively the service of capital. When a neoliberal talks about competitiveness, he has in mind a flexible workforce, low taxes for rich, low environmental and low consumer standards. Because if we look at objective facts, we see that Slovenia is a highly competitive country. In Eastern Europe, it has always been above average in the field of external trade, and in recent years it has been practical to make this indicator a priority. How can someone in sound mind claim that our employees are not competitive, but if last year we had 7% surpluses in the current balance of payments account, which is even beyond what European rules allow, and we are essentially putting ourselves first on Germany's side. Last year the Slovenian company had 2.6 billion euros more than it has spent, and also the latest forecast by Umarje notes that Slovenia's export competitiveness is increasing, but apparently this is not enough for neoliberals. This does not mean, of course, that Slovenia is not competitive, this only means that, for speculative funds purchased by state-owned companies at liquidation prices or for various financial advisors, with which we are dealing last week with a total of 21,000 euros in wages, these are not facts or are not relevant data, they seem completely different. When neoliberals talk about economic efficiency, if I move to a second point, they do not think again of the innovation of the economy or of gross social income, because, according to these two indicators, Slovenia is ahead of all other Eastern European countries, that countries such as Jordan, Georgia or third world countries, which fall into a few ten places if not even a hundred cities ahead of us, I do not speak. In 2011, Slovenia had 52 patents per million inhabitants, Estonia, the first of the transition countries in the Fraser scale, having four times fewer patents and Romania having thirty-three times fewer. The same is true of GDP – Slovenia still has the highest GDP per capita between transition countries. According to the World Bank, this was $24,000 in Slovenia last year, in the Czech Republic 19 000 500. Slovenia is the 35th country in the Council, Jordan, which is obviously set as an example by the proponents who read this scale seriously. When neoliberals talk about economic freedom, they don't think about the freedom of an individual, the possibility of a person living a decent life and not a victim of crime or repression, but they think of unlimited opportunities for exploitation. Economic freedom means again low taxes, especially low taxes for the rich. It means a flexible workforce that you can forgive at any time and without relief means as freely as possible in the exploitation of natural resources. Have we not just in recent years learned what flexibility in the workforce means, what it means to reduce taxes on high incomes and capital by causing a large public financial deficit, what damage does mega-Romanian construction projects do and, after all, what does that mean for bank balances? What the proponents are selling us is freedom for capital and slavery for everyone else. More cynicism is that someone gives us recommendations based on scales on which police states such as Jordan or Hungary are located, far ahead of Sweden, Iceland and Slovenia. If we look at the comparison and take only the United States, which is on this 16th scale, we see that 698 people per 100,000 population in the United States and almost ten times less in Slovenia, it says 74. Now, someone on this freedom scale would like to say that Slovenia is a less free country than the United States of America. Furthermore, freedom is an element of freedom of choice, the right choice of the consumer is the right choice, but from the neoliberal point of view, protection of consumer rights is only an administrative burden, and they are, after all, the biggest advocates of the transatlantic agreements that these guardians will eliminate in all possible places. And finally, isn't the condition of freedom a decent income? Is it not exactly a dignified income that is essential to the freedom of an individual? Slovenia is still far below the average of the European Union if we look at objective indicators again, and we have average amounts of social assistance and minimum wages. This, of course, limits the freedom of capital and, on the other hand, is the guarantee of freedom for the weakest in society. Sweden, Iceland and Slovenia, which protect the weakest, more than Jordan, Georgia and Armenia, are, of course, limiting the freedom of capital, but to increase and ensure decent life and freedom and the well-being of other people. What, then, is the manipulation of the proposers? This is where I turn to you, coalition MPs. This propaganda action is for you. The coalition is the one that sets out the policies of this country, the coalition is the one that is under constant pressure from the European Commission and the corporate media that are constantly demanding structural reforms. However, coalition Members are the ones on which it will depend, whether the state will preserve the achievements of civilization, which continue to compare the quality of life in Slovenia to that of all Eastern European and South-Eastern countries, or whether we will simply eliminate these civilisational achievements because of recommendations or the demands of some. We must therefore ask ourselves how we have achieved this standard, which we are fortunate to have today. The proponents stated in their explanation that the solution is to complete the transition in Slovenia. This is the very essence of manipulation, which unfortunately came from the old left. You have been convinced that our quality of life is high, despite the fact that we have not performed neoliberal shock therapy and structural reforms and that it is high time to start them. In fact, our quality of life is high precisely because we have not carried out shock therapy and structural reforms. The system, which was established in Slovenia in the 1990s, is wrongly called Gradalism, because this would mean that there is only one objective of social development, it is said, neoliberalism, to which some countries go quickly, through shock therapy and Slovenia through graduateism slowly. But it's a scam. Whoever thinks at least about social needs to reject this imperative and at least advocate capitalism with the human face, which existed after World War II practically throughout the West, and today it is practiced by Scandinavian countries or, at least until 2004, by Slovenia. In those years, we reached Western countries after GDP and had no problems with public debt, the economy was a net creditor abroad, and we were probably even worse off than today on these scales of yours. But the key is to clear up these manipulations. One such current manipulation that occurs is the claim that the Czech Republic is supposed to push Slovenia out of the first place among the transition countries. On this basis, some have already begun to announce that all the transition countries have now surpassed Slovenia by standard. But none of it holds. Our per capita GDP was €18 000 100 last year and the Czech GDP was €14 000 600. If we compare GDP movements with constant values, we see that the difference between the Czech Republic and Slovenia today is greater than it was in 1995. The only thing that holds is that the Czech Republic – but this was not the first time, this has happened several times in the past – has gone ahead of GDP, expressed in purchasing power. Here the Czech Republic has 84% of the European average and Slovenia has 83%. But if we look at the amounts of the average wage, we will see that the average Slovenian salary is 10% higher than the Czech salary. If both Slovenian and Czech workers go abroad, Slovenia has one third more purchasing power than Czech due to higher real GDP. If we look at the weaker, we will see that there is only EUR 331 in the Czech Republic, it is said that Slovenian employees have almost once more purchasing power than colleagues in the Czech Republic. I am not saying this because I would argue that everything is fine in Slovenia, but that we should spread a little fog from these obvious manipulations that appear in the media. These manipulations are not intended for anything other than the anti-social policies set out in these reports. It is very clear where these policies are going. The recommendations propose changes in Slovenia in tax policy, health care and the public sector. It is therefore important to ask what these reforms mean. Tax reform. The European comparison shows that these flat-rate claims that we have the highest taxes in Slovenia simply do not hold. In Slovenia we collect 35.7% of GDP taxes and contributions together, the European Union average is 39.4%, that is 4% more. Secondly, we have extremely low capital taxes. Their share in us is only 10%; in Europe, the average is more than 20%. We also hold an infamous record in the EU, namely that we have the lowest base for capital taxes. In neighbouring Austria, by which we like to imitate ourselves, the long-term average of capital taxes is 25%, in Slovenia 19%. At the same time, we have an extremely high taxed consumption. More than Slovenian consumers are charged with VAT and excise duties only by Hungarians, Estonians and Portuguese, so it is necessary to go in the same direction as the proposal. It is entirely wrong to continue to reduce taxes on the rich and capital already too small and below the average of the European Union and, on the other hand, to increase indirect taxes such as VAT, excise duties and so on, which are obviously the most affected by those with cheaper wallets, the most socially weak. If we touch on health reform, the reform that the proponents are talking about is something completely different than what our people need and what the coalition has finally written in the coalition agreement. In the coalition agreement, you promised to replace supplementary health insurance, which is now commercially, with a fair public contribution. On the other hand, the right opposition proposes that commercial collateral from the complementary now extend to all others. Their reform means that what has already proved to be unfair and ineffective in practice would extend to the whole system. The Ministry of Health, in response to counterpart Kordiš, stated that 20% of the money collected by supplementary insurance premiums remains in insurance companies. 20 % of the compulsory duty remains in insurance companies. After 14 months, the government has not yet made a concrete proposal on how to resolve this, and on the other hand, the proposer advocates that this inefficient and unfair model be blown to other forms of health insurance. If I speak to the end briefly about the so-called well-intentionedness of these recommendations. In winter, the proposers of this recommendation proposed the conclusions by the National Assembly to the Bank of Slovenia to prepare a report on the causes of the bank hole or the capital deficit of banks. When Banka Slovenije made this recommendation on 2 March and sent it to the National Assembly, they simply ignored it. In explanation of the request for the establishment of an investigative commission which touches on this very point, the origin of the bank hole is not even mentioned. The reports they ordered themselves. Of course it's clear why. This report by Banka Slovenije showed that one of the main reasons for the bank's overheating of the economy, which was not hindered by the first Janša government, was even encouraged by the wrong policies. In explanation of today’s session, all the weights are praised by Janša’s government, but the facts show quite the opposite. Even the public debt, which is usually their chronological argument, increased by EUR 787 million between 2004 and the end of 2008. Although we will hear how the 2007 budget was flattened, the Swiss fiscal formula that they proposed in this mandate would have to have a billion surplus at the time, but they had zero. So, a billion surplus should have, on their own proposal, and now they're bragging that they had zero. Although all the weights are now required by belt tightening, only in 2007 and 2008, during the biggest conjuncture in the last 25 years, they created 2.2% of the structural deficit. Now we should allow these same people, who have run economic policies so disastrously between 2004 and 2008 and 2012 and 2013, to provide us with prescriptions for economic reforms, based on completely non-creditable scales beyond which the interest of international capital is not at all open. Respected, these recommendations are a mere farce in procedural terms and, in a substantive sense, manipulation and their purpose is to promote against social policies. Therefore, in the United Left, we also withdraw from today's debate because we do not intend to participate in this farce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u13	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, the last mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u14	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Slovenia has not yet been saved, and we can still work so hard to spread the fog, and under this fog we will always find 100,000 people without work and 300,000 people below the poverty threshold. Slovenia is currently at a quiet stage before the storm. In some ways, economic growth has put us to sleep and encouraged us not to do what is necessary. We have not yet repaired the inactive systems, and once the fog is pressed again and the storm strikes again, all the problems that Slovenia has to face will be revealed again in its entirety. The debate on the inclusion of Slovenia on the regular global competitiveness scale of the World Economic Forum should first point out the fact that Slovenia was ranked 39th in the preceding crisis in 2009, followed by a skirmish to the 70th place Slovenia took in last year. Since, at the meeting of the home labour force on the Committee on Justice, the most important talk was about whether the data for the classification of countries on this scale was covered in the right way, perhaps in a few words. The methodology of the regular annual global competitiveness scale of the World Economic Forum consists of a combination of economic indicators and surveys between economists. So from objective and subjective criteria. Methodology is the same for all countries. The debate on representativeness in Nova Slovenija seems to us very much and is used primarily by those who are most responsible for the situation that we have today, but at the same time have an interest that nothing changes. What exactly do the rankings on these scales tell us? We still have a number of problems and problems in Slovenia. Because of the rankings on these scales, no one is punishing us, but these classifications can help us to understand where we are good, where we are bad, where we are still being improved, and what measures we should take. The OECD, of which we are members, issued some recommendations to us last year with a special document entitled Reform for Strong and Sustainable Economic Recovery. These are aimed at reducing bureaucratic barriers in industry and services, at increasing foreign investment burdening Slovenian over-indebted companies, and at reducing the share of state property and improving the management of existing state-owned enterprises. Relatively self-inflicted things. What is so disturbing about this that someone recommends debirocratisation, continuation of corporate deleveraging and the withdrawal of policy from the economy? Where do you see the decline in the social status of citizens here? Also, the Swiss Institute for Management Development in its scale shows the fall of Slovenia on the competitiveness scale after 2009, when we were in the 32nd place, until last year when we fell to 55th place. Although we are in 49th place today, there is no way that we can be satisfied, especially with the measures that the current government is responsible for. Entrepreneurs and the economy remind us of the unfavourable and, above all, the inappropriate business environment. What else do the economy and economists tell us? It is precisely their requirement to improve the business environment that the rule of law be guaranteed. This is an effective and independent trial within a reasonable time frame. Indicators in this area are still very unfavourable for Slovenia. Despite the assurance of the representatives of the courts and the Ministry of Justice that the duration of civil and economic proceedings is decreasing, statistics still show that the economic dispute in Slovenia lasts once longer than in social Austria, for example. However, the fact is that the actual duration of the procedure in major economic conflicts is not only 10 months, as the statistics show, but much more. This is the case with many who are directly involved in these disputes and procedures. They also point to inadequate insolvency law and excessive insolvency proceedings. The government, to put it mildly, is slow and hesitant in taking measures to improve the business environment. Nor do the budget for the next two years show that something substantial would change in Slovenia. The budgets for 2016 and 2017 are also still budgets for maintaining the status quo. It is not expected that the current government will seriously prepare Slovenia for possible difficult times. These certainly await us in the form of a migrant crisis, which will increase further; in the form of an exacerbation of the economic situation in Europe, in particular in the countries where Slovenia is most exporting; the interest rates currently paid by Slovenia can also change very briefly. This is about millions of dollars in all cases, and we're still not ready. According to Umar, which he recently presented to the Committee on the Economy, Slovenia will not reach the 2008 situation until 2017. So we can talk about the lost decade for Slovenia. The lost decade is because we have not done our homework in these ten years, because we have not adapted our environment, our country, to the challenges of the future that await us. In Nova Slovenija we certainly see five key reforms that Slovenia will have to implement in the next five, perhaps ten years. These are tax reform, health reform, labour market reform, pension reform and judicial reform. With regard to tax reform, it would be worth saying that in Slovenia there is a kind of artificial conflict, when the left on the one hand tries to convince the right hand that it advocates a marked reduction in capital taxation. That's not true. You will not believe that in Slovenia, the right hand advocates the burden of work, the tax burden of wages, and sometimes it is extremely difficult to understand why there is no participation and support in this point for those parties who are the most prominent and decisive advocates of the social state. In Slovenia, wages are extremely high and when opposition parties, in this case Nova Slovenija, come with concrete measures – not only by declarations, resolutions or declarations to the public, but by concrete legal implementation – how to raise the net minimum wage, not by increasing the gross minimum wage and thus additionally burdening the economy, we experience a kind of slow and indecisive response from the left. There would certainly be much more decisive support in terms of wage relief and in terms of increasing the purchasing power of the weak. According to our proposal, those with a minimum monthly salary would receive 50 euros more, amounting to one additional salary in one year. With regard to health reform, an artificial conflict is re-establishing how the right is to defend private health and the left is to defend public social health. That's not true either. We also advocate public health, but we advocate a different way of financing this health care. What other way? Not that it is first for those who know someone, but that every citizen will be provided with solid and quality services. When a conflict is created artificially again, when everything is great today, when we have a large state insurance company that pays five times more for certain services than private insurance companies in Austria or Germany, it is extremely possible to sell the story of how the Slovenian health system will undermine the introduction of greater competitiveness in the field of health insurance. Or, if I'm even more precise, I ask myself, or else, that I can guarantee you that a private insurance company will be very interested in enabling you to do as much hip surgery as possible, because if you don't, you may have to pay it back in two, maybe three years, while it is clear that this is a big state insurance company, because it comes from one big government bag where the losses cover the budget in one way or another. Labour market reform. They say it is a neoliberal reform that is supposed to encourage faster forgiveness. I don't agree with that. Reform is needed to enable faster employment. Today I would hire a lot of people, but because of rigorous labour law this is not happening, so we have a black job, we have a minimum wage, and the rest of the pay is in an envelope. Retired reform. I think that in the future it will be necessary to look the truth in the eyes and say that if we want to stop the fall of pensions, something will have to be done for the sake of demographics. But we can continue to listen to a client who hears the name Desus, but since they've been in coalitions, pensions have actually fallen by 16%, that's a verifiable figure. Judicial reform. We need a more effective trial, we need a faster trial, and there is no way I can agree with those who claim that fewer people in prison mean greater freedom. What if fewer people in prison mean ineffective justice? What if fewer people in prison mean that those who are villains and do wrongs cannot be brought before the hands of justice and put under lock and key? The judicial branch of power will also have to set up a mirror and answer certain things clearly. Let me get this straight. Surely the scales are not essential, but they can help us to understand our situation. Unfortunately, we live in an environment where if we don't adapt, we'll disappear.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u15	The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u16	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! More or less so far, discussions are taking place around statistics, statistics collection and comparisons. I think it's better that we focus on the problems of this country and how we can solve them. Of course, solutions will be sought for these statistics by discrediting the institutions that have done these statistics, how these results are collected, by trying to show more research from other fields, by drowning in some data or by reducing the importance of these surveys. We must be aware that the statistics are in the power of the elite, the nobles and the government. They have access to the data, they can order the data, they can edit it, what we saw the last time we saw it at the second track. You order the data and you make the data you want. We need to start to wonder what these statistics are, qualitative, quantitative, proxies, victimology studies, and we need to do even more about the studies that deal with the damage that has already been caused. We already have a lot of damage, but no one is dealing with it, so it is more important that we focus on the main problems. Today it has already been mentioned several times that we have economic growth. Yes, economic growth, which benefits more or less corporations, does not benefit people. Official statistics for Slovenia issued by the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia show that consumption is falling, production in Slovenia is declining and crediting the Slovenian economy is declining. What's going on in the economy? Good intel suggests we're being pulled out of a bad situation by exports. If we analyze the matter in detail, we see that our companies are producing cheap products that we do not need and, on the other hand, we are happy to import the products we need. It is therefore better to talk about the problems of encouraging the domestic economy and domestic consumption, which, of course, will raise living standards and, of course, result in human rights. It has been repeatedly exposed to the fact that young people are easier to get to work with us. If we go back into the problem itself, we see that young people are coming to work, which is more or less fun, which means they can't get a permanent job that gives rise to certain rights. Young people do their job by starting their own business, so on the other hand, we have a whole bunch of young people who are already in bankruptcy, and then parents cover their costs. Young people get jobs by working in more organisations and then sharing their work with more entrepreneurs. They are deceived by the fact that it will be very successful if they work at home — no transportation costs, no food costs, no rental costs and the like. Nor does such work mean permanent employment for young people. We're also wondering what's going on with the internship. All these forms of work constitute a violation of the human rights of young people, and they are increasingly investing and participating in their education. If I move on to the next problem, that's the problem of corruption. Corruption, as we know from the statistics themselves, is very qualitative and quantitative, on the other hand, and the biggest problem for Slovenia is the problem of systemic corruption. For the first time, we have admitted that we have such corruption, but we have not done anything to solve such corruption. We have a Commission to prevent corruption, but it has more problems than it can solve from the very beginning. The system of solutions with the so-called legal state, on the one hand we have the "rule of law" – the English system and on the other hand the "rechtsstaat" – the German system. What is the main problem for Slovenia? Slovenia, as such, has a German tradition and has a German-based legal system and the economy is oriented towards American direction. And since these two systems are cutting, the rule of law can't work as well as it could work. At the University of Würzburg, where we have studied the rule of law, we have found that the rule of law is most affected by corruption in the broadest sense and so-called bad informal institutions, among which are informal networks, of course the problem of Slovenia. Therefore, the rule of law does not work and, as a result, there are problems in the judiciary. We have repeatedly pointed out the problems in the judiciary in this National Assembly, in particular in the Mandate-Electorial Commission, we can point out, of course, the recruitment and promotion that is untransparent, as we have seen several times in the appointment of judges in the National Assembly itself. Then the effectiveness of the trial, because we go through the judiciary several times, not once through the judiciary, because the second stage does not decide, but returns matters to the first stage. Conflicts in the interests of judges involved in arbitration in their work, lectures and the like, which encourages people not to trust the judges. Judges must be excluded and give rise to a lack of confidence in the institution itself. The Code of Judicial Ethics has not been adopted, nor have we adopted the Code here by Members. If I somehow conclude in this part, I could say that the information that we are concerned about on the one hand depends on how we explain it. We believe that this debate is necessary precisely because the Government exposes the economic growth and employability of young people and, on the other hand, ignores some indicators that show that there is no situation in the country that it is trying to show. It is more and more so that we are becoming a country based on a Congolese model, which means that we have a nobles that collects data for the government, the government presents such a thing, and the opposition does not have access to all the data to show what the real situation is in the country and in the National Assembly, most of them confirm the voting machine on the basis of such data adopted laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u17	The text is given by the Members' Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Ksenija Korenjak Kramar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Modern Centre Party, we are convinced that Slovenia, together with other European countries, is co-forming European space and that, when we operate, adopt policies and implement measures, we have been guided by common European values: free economic initiative, freedom and rule of law. With the proposal for recommendations concerning the deteriorating classifications of Slovenia on international scales that measure respect for human rights, the effectiveness of the rule of law and the economic system, the proposer wants to show, as a result, the economic and economic, legal and social situation of Slovenia. At the same time, the applicant forgets that different statistics and indices can only be indicative indicators of the situation in each area, as they also reflect unfair and non-economic factors. In addition, the different methodology for data collection and analysis shows a different picture and allows different interpretations. Therefore, statistical generalisation must not and cannot show the actual situation in specific areas. Politics is not one to assess greater or less subjectivity of analysis, so it is crucial to take into account internationally recognised surveys that allow comparability and also have a certain scientific value, such as the Freedom House Index and the Human Development Index. It is surprising that today, as of October 2015, we are discussing a proposal for a proposal for a proposal from the applicant based on the results of the 2013 analyses, while the applicant is aware of or should at least be aware of the new data relating to 2014 and 2015. In doing so, we are asking a reasonable question about the purpose of the applicant, as the proposal for recommendations and the analyses presented in them set a mirror for the governments that ruled from 2012 to 2014. The independent NGO Freedom House, which measures the level of freedom and democracy around the world, has placed Slovenia at the top in its latest report on countries in transition. With regard to the assessment of the democraticity of law, Slovenia has already achieved such classification in transition in 2010 and, of course, beyond. The summit also sees an assessment of the electoral process and democratic governance at local level, and it is slightly worse in the area of media independence and corruption. The fact is that the Republic of Slovenia, in the broader area of combating corruption and increasing public sector integrity, has already taken some important steps towards improving this situation at the end of 2013 and at the beginning of 2014, which continues at an equal and higher pace in 2015. According to the NGO Transparency International's perceived corruption index, Slovenia was ranked 39th among 175 countries in 2014, four cities higher than in the previous year. In the coalition agreement of this government, the commitment to a decisive fight against corruption is included among the key core sources of action as part of efforts to restore people's confidence in the country and its core pillars of state-run action. It also points to the fact that the country has set the right guidelines in this area and has set the right targets. In the area of justice, we have adopted legislation and measures in the past year to strengthen the efficiency, transparency and integrity of the functioning of the judicial and state supervisory authorities and the higher level of protection of human rights. In April 2015, amendments and additions to the Law on Courts, the Law on Judicial Service and the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office began to enter into force in response to Greece's recommendations to ensure the integrity of judges and state prosecutors. With a view to speeding up the resolution of disputes, amendments to the Law on Courts have been adopted to ensure the quality of the staff and transparency of the selection procedures only in the judiciary, the Law on Judicial Service, the Law on Public Prosecutions, the Law on Enforcement and Insurance and the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions have been amended. According to the state of justice review and the Supreme Court, the number of new, non-criminal cases per 100 inhabitants, in other words, falls three times higher than the average of the European Union. The expected time for resolving these issues has fallen by 34% over the last five years, the biggest decline in the European Union. The time to resolve civil and economic matters decreased from 301 days in 2013 to 266 days in 2014. The number of pending economic matters in the first stage has halved in less than 3 years. The expected time for solving economic matters fell from 18.5 months to 8.5 months in five years. In enforcement cases representing 55% of pending cases, legislative changes have resulted in the reduction of outstanding enforcement cases from 180 000 to 130 000 this year and the number has almost halved since 2010. The Slovenian economy was among the most affected in the crisis, the decline in GDP in 2009 was 7.8%, and recovery in years after that is relatively slow and long-lasting. Slovenia did so only in 2014 to record 3% of economic growth, which enabled the gradual elimination of macroeconomic imbalances and the gradual elimination of the surplus deficit in public finances. The implementation of the Government's established measures and policies contributes significantly to this. Data from the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia and Umarje for Slovenia show that economic growth in the second quarter of 2015 amounted to 2.6%, the EU average stands at 1.6%, the euro area at 1.2%. The unemployment rate has decreased, youth unemployment has decreased by 12.7% compared to 2014. The debt of the economy decreased, namely 1. 1. 2014 was 83%, now 73%. The efficiency of European spending is increasing, and the IMD also reports that after 4 years of decline the Republic of Slovenia has improved the place on the competitiveness scale, which is 49 places, which is 6 places better than in 2014. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we oppose the proposal for a recommendation on the increasingly poor classifications of Slovenia on international scales that measure the respect for human rights, the effectiveness of the rule of law and the economic system in order to show the distorted image of Slovenia. We advocate and support any debate aimed at improving the situation of citizens of Slovenia. Not because of success on international scales, which often show a distorted picture due to different methodologies and data analysis, but because of the commitment to citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u19	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u20	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Minister, Secretary of State, others invited, colleagues and colleagues! First of all, it must be said that different scales are made by different institutions, with different methodologies and, of course, these different scales also give different classifications. It has been pointed out several times that, of course, everyone makes their own methodology, and in this connection a presentation was also made by the Slovenian Democratic Party, where there are several scales and not just one scale. It is mainly designed to improve Slovenia's position in international competition, not to make it worse, and not to make it very satisfied with itself. I believe that many people don't like ranking on these scales. However, we need to look in the mirror, because we are Members and Members of Parliament who must also put the situation of Slovenia on behalf of voters and electorates in the mirror and we cannot keep asking ourselves just how Snow is a stepmother when she asked which is the most beautiful in the country. If indicators show that Slovenia is not in the best position compared to other countries or that, even in comparison with other countries, it falls according to certain indicators, then of course this is the reason to consider this, to do everything and to call on the Government to do everything to stop this trend. When you look in the mirror, you can't always see a picture of Dorian Gray. It's a matter of concern. And in certain areas she is concerned. For the first time, because Slovenia falls on most scales compared to other countries and is therefore in the broadest sense less competitive, and especially because of the fact that this also affects the standard, even on the living conditions of the people actually living in this country. Of course, there are a lot of criteria, a lot of things that need to be discussed here, but I hope that, with a view to doing so, at least that is the intention of the Slovenian Democratic Party to improve the situation. As a result, the proposals proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party and rejected by the coalition are such that the situation and life in Slovenia improve and make life easier. The fact is that Slovenia is falling within a certain period of time. For example, from 2002, when she had 58th place on the economic freedom scale, until 2015, when she was 111th place. Whatever this scale is, and whoever put it together is, of course, concerned. Because of this knowledge about which scales and which scales should be listed here We are also impressive for other scales, but of course something has to be said here. [[…]] The aim is to improve the case. Unfortunately, this government does not show much energy to improve matters in Slovenia. We must certainly say here that the other countries that have been catching up to Slovenia in the last decade – and here we can talk about a large number of countries that are catching up to Slovenia – in the area of economic development, in the area of development, in the area of education development and so on. Of course there are more reasons. One reason is that Slovenia did not respond in time to the global economic crisis. It did not respond to the banking and financial crisis in 2009. It did not respond in 2010 or 2011 or 2012. Instead, we paid five billion at the end of one, two, three billion to rehabilitate the banking system. No measures were taken at the time. Another reason is that, even as a post-communist country, we have not done the three reforms that we should. Transition still exists, we still have the largest number of state banks, state ownership is still the one that actually represents a priority for certain political groups, and especially for certain lobbyist groups, mainly because state ownership is being drained through different routes, and this has also proved to be true during the crisis, how it has actually exhausted. We have not established a system where we would actually have a competitive economy, but we still have a number of monopolies, a number of unhealthy links between business operators. Here we can talk about the fact that business relations are not actually pure, but are linked to various lobbying aspirations, that a particular matter is done in a way that is in the interest of individuals or groups of individuals. We can also talk about the length of the resolution of legal disputes. That's what another ladder is talking about. This is what the scale is talking about, that we still have an extremely long process in Slovenia, that conflicts end, and that, of course, we also have a very poorly developed mediation process. Here I can also refer to bureaucracy, the advance negative attitude towards foreigners, the non-acceptance of differences and so on. The transition is not completed in Slovenia. We're one of the few countries where it's not really over. The consequences are obvious. The fall of Slovenia on international scales, however, can be taken any compared to other countries when we were in the past before them. Because what do the international scales show? They show the competitiveness of countries. The competitiveness of countries with regard to the different criteria you have from justice, economics to finance and so on and not least to how we live in a country. What is even more worrying is that this environment in which we live is not good enough for university graduates or foreign companies. Not only do they not come here, but we are among the last on the scale to talk about how much direct investment we have in the country. No, more. Some companies are actually leaving. Among other things, he moved to Italy through the work of his production. Yesterday we were able to hear about what development he had achieved here. We can also talk about others, Procter & Gamble, Danfoss Compressors and so on. In short, companies are moving to other countries. The conditions given here by Slovenia for business, for creating added value and, of course, for strengthening economic growth are too weak, compared to other countries. And today we cannot talk about having an effective judiciary, having an effective way of judging and having all the courts decide the same if two courts decide differently on the seizure of documentation for the banking system than a third court. Excuse me, if we're talking about the last case, then of course we can't talk here about the uniformity of decisions in the judicial system. We know that our number of judges is 42 per 100,000 inhabitants, and 23 of the 27 countries have fewer than 30 judges per 100,000 inhabitants. Is that making the decision faster? Is that why the courts are less contentious? No, just the data shows no. We don't see a link here, we don't see a correlation here and, of course, we're proposing some changes in the judiciary as well. There are many reasons why we came into this situation. These reasons go mainly in the direction that we simply cannot deal with certain matters in Slovenia and step in place. Just as we were among the last countries to take action in the financial system in 2013, because, of course, it cost us a lot. In this case, of course, we can say that time was money, but much more money. Thus, we can now see that this government has not prepared any measures to increase economic growth. You cannot say that the current, relatively modest economic growth is based on the actions of this government. This growth is based on the actions of previous governments. Here I hope you agree with this at least in principle. Where, though, is the systemic measure other than the introduction of tax receipts that will, of course, make the business environment worse? I think that the only systemic measure taken by this government is the introduction of tax registers. Whether this will continue to work or not will not work, whether the tax returns will benefit the state budget or not, of course, is another issue. I don't think so. But it's the only systemic measure. If I recall a few months ago, the Minister of Health promised a health reform in September. She's not here. Here is the question whether we are now waiting first for the consolidation of the Clinical Centre, for the consolidation of the management of the Clinical Centre, so that health reform can then be made. Or is there somewhere else where these reservations are? But these reforms, which everyone says are necessary, even the Mira Cerar government has sometimes said that it is necessary, even the Prime Minister of the Government has talked about that this is one of the priorities, in fact it is not. It will probably explain the need to reconcile the matter. There is, of course, a question to reconcile with whom. With certain lobbying, such or different, or actually among political parties. Even with regard to what is recommended to us by very neutral institutes, such as the Swiss Institute of IMD, which says that work needs to be unloaded, the OEDC is also talking about, there is actually no such action. Suddenly, there are good temporary measures from Zuif for this government and for this coalition, which have been criticized to heaven. These measures are now simply prolonging or temporary measures are becoming permanent measures. There's nothing here. If we read government documents talking about fair and fair taxation and so on, I think that this is a message for people, for citizens and citizens to get their hands on their pockets when we talk about justice by the government, about honesty and so on. And, of course, when a new property tax is predicted and so on. When we talk about competitiveness, there is really no action. When we talk about the indebtedness of state-owned enterprises, there is also no action. Also, the creation of a friendly environment, I'm sorry, we have not taken these measures in this National Assembly and I probably will not take them in the future. Even when we are talking about fiscal consolidation, we are still far from fiscal consolidation, as this government does not even tell us what is with the so-called structural deficit. In short, nothing like this is happening for Slovenia to improve its position on the competitiveness scales, to make economic growth more sustainable, to reduce unemployment, to increase people's standards and, of course, to make life more friendly in this country. This is the fundamental purpose of the recommendations proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party. I regret to say that it is a shame that this happened, that this coalition did not have the power to make recommendations, if not others. However, the easiest thing to do is to reject, propose and attack a well-intentioned proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u22	Have a word with me, Mr. Vice President. Respected and respected! In the Desus Group, we believe that the topics we are talking about today are very important. We can never be fully satisfied with the situation of respect for human rights, the effectiveness of the rule of law and the economic system. It is important that we talk about this and that things improve. However, the situation is not as bad as the applicants of this requirement are trying to show when they mention the bad rankings of Slovenia on international scales. The fact is that these scales do not show a complete and real picture. International comparisons are based on different methods of data collection and analysis. Therefore, we cannot say in general that the situation is worrying and that it represents the classification of Slovenia as a disgrace and a disgrace. Such statements are, to say the least, inappropriate and exaggerated. Even if we consider the methodology of data collection and doubts about the real situation in the country on the basis of the scales, we can also find – contrary to the applicants’ claim – a number of international scales where Slovenia achieves good rankings. For example, according to the Human Freedom Index published in August this year, Slovenia ranks 41st from 152 cities. Even after the report of the World Economic Forum 2015-2016, which was published in September this year, Slovenia has improved its classification in the field of independence of the judiciary. Slovenia's ratings on international financial markets are also gradually improving, and progress has already been seen on key competitiveness measurement scales. In short, more recent data show that the classifications of Slovenia are improving and that we are far from embarrassing rankings as the proponents want to show. In particular, there have been many debates in the State Assembly on the state of justice, and several conclusions have already been adopted. It has also been said several times that the situation is improving, in some areas faster, in others a little slower. Measures have been taken and it takes some time for the results to be more visible. As we have pointed out several times in the Desus Group, last but not least at the examination of the Proposal for a Recommendation on the findings of the European Court of Human Rights on the review of work in 1959-2014 on human rights violations for the Republic of Slovenia, with the situation in the field of justice and human rights, we can never, of course, be fully satisfied. Indeed, the situation is not as alarming as the applicants are trying to present it. There are different scales, different statistics, and we do not want to deny that some scales have been poorly classified or classified years ago, as some of the data cited by the proponents are two years old or older, and the situation has started to improve since then. We did not support the Desus Group on the home committee of the proposals. We believe that there is no need to adopt new recommendations as a number of decisions have already been adopted recommending to the other authorities the adoption of measures to improve the situation, particularly in the field of justice and human rights. Some structural measures have also been taken. Let me finish. The Government is already preparing and implementing the measures called for by the proposers in the proposal for recommendations. Therefore, in the Desus Group, we do not believe that new recommendations are necessary. Finally, let me stress once again that the classifications of Slovenia on international scales do not show the same disgraceful rankings as the applicants want to show. On the contrary, many comparisons show that the situation is improving. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are going through a general discussion of Members and Members. The drafter of mags has the floor. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u24	President, thank you for your word. It was very interesting to hear this debate or the position of the parliamentary groups, in particular the ruling coalition groups, the modern centre parties, the Social Democrats and Desus, because we expected something different from this meeting as proponents. This meeting was also convened with some other purpose, as you interpreted the coalition partners or you do not want to discuss it. The purpose of this meeting was certainly not to be made for me in this national assembly again by one so - called war, who is right and who is wrong. We haven't all of these facts, and we haven't put all of these research into the National Assembly for you to listen to if the SDS is right, because we don't expect that from you either. However, we would expect to discuss these issues today, not to the point of view that we can also expect a debate in this direction, whether this methodology is correct and whether this scale relates to 2013 or refers to 2012. According to the latest data from some of your research, Slovenia has grown by so many and so many cities. I will read once again what our recommendations were and what the voting machine of the Mira Cerar coalition rejected on the working body. We only recommend to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that instead of exposed growth, which is not at all due to its work, work on serious structural reforms, in particular in the area of justice, health, public administration, pension system and labour relations. Secondly, the National Assembly recommends that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, together with the judiciary, examine and propose measures to establish greater transparency in the work of the judiciary, its greater effectiveness, the reduction of proceedings, independent and impartial decision-making in judicial proceedings and the restoration of confidence in justice. Respected and respected, I am convinced that these proposals and these recommendations have their purpose to finally understand here why we are in the National Assembly, both the coalition and the opposition, and that we are trying to determine which reforms Slovenia urgently needs and which reforms we can adopt. With the very name of reform, the government coalition should be aware that the reform of the National Assembly can only be accepted with the support of the opposition. You can't do this alone. Of course, in cooperation with the social partners. In view of the views of your parliamentary groups, I can now also expect a debate between Members and Members of the Modern Centre Party, that the professional services have already prepared for you a discussion that you will read today, and there will be no talk of reforms here in any way, but you will try to defend that Slovenia is not 46., Slovenia is 47. or 40. But the facts are different, because even if Slovenia were in 2nd or 5th place, it should be here in the interest of both the opposition and the coalition, that Slovenia should grow up for a few more cities and that these reforms are urgently needed. We don't say in here that it's bad in all areas. However, we have highlighted the most critical areas for which sparrows are already chirping, what is wrong in Slovenia and what has not improved. But you can't get past one fact. We have used quite a few internationally recognised surveys of internationally recognised institutions here, and from some positions of coalition parliamentary groups it has been observed that these institutions are not scientifically recognised. I think it's a shame for you to hope to say that. That the World Economic Forum or the Swiss Institute for Management Development is not scientifically recognised. Then you put one of your tables inside. We didn't play some statistics here and abuse this system, we used one research in one interpretation and another interpretation, but we drew a line. The movement of Slovenia since 2008 when the government of Janez Janša ended its mandate. However, it is clear from this period that since 2008 Slovenia has fallen drastically on all these scales. Mainly on the scales where macros and microeconomic indicators are displayed and, of course, on the standard of living. Let's see which cities Slovenia occupied in 2008 and what happened after 2008. I think that still the worst blow that will be felt for several generations in Slovenia is the government of Borut Pahor. This has been the worst government so far, because it is also seen by all these indicators, since Slovenia has fallen the most dramatically at the time, and the social democrats are, of course, the most responsible since you had a Prime Minister and a Finance Minister. We are extremely indebted and these funds have not been used for what they should be used for, namely, restructuring the economic system and restructuring the banking system, but only to maintain some apparent social policy. This money has been lost and will be paid for by the next generation. It's interesting to hear how we've been up lately. Accidentally, one study came in this interim period, when we proposed this information, and you immediately jumped into the air to grow three, four cities in this new study. But we want to show the fact that Slovenia has been falling since 2008. The country's gross domestic product has fallen by more than 9% since 2008, by more than 9%, and if we have grown by 2% and less in the last year, we are still 7% below where we were in 2008. Let us be aware here that we are somehow trying to encourage this coalition to finally start working. It's hard for someone to convince me that the proposals written by international institutions do not drink water. These international institutions, not least Slovenia, want only the best to make a health reform, to make a pension reform and, above all, to start increasing competitiveness and attracting foreign investment. Also interesting is the research Global Competitiveness Report 2014-2015. I think that this title and the result of this coalition should be the most imagined. Slovenia has 16th least effective government in the world. 16. at least an effective government in the world. According to government efficiency, 128th among 144 countries. It is clear from your point of view that milk and honey for Slovenians and Slovenians will begin to flow after the start of the government's term of office. But tell me what reform you have adopted in this mandate to help Slovenia rise to competitiveness on all these scales. List to me, honourable Members and Members of the coalition parties. One reform or one measure that has contributed to this. Interestingly, if you do not believe us, Members and Members of Parliament, I suggest you read how the Chamber of Commerce thinks. "Unfortunately, all Slovenian governments have not heard many warnings from the domestic and foreign professional public since the start of the big crisis in 2008 and have often even acted contrary to them. Before the international public, we have lost all credit from the first period of Slovenia alone." This is a statement from the Chamber of Commerce, not a political organisation. "If the government does not act quickly and relieve the Slovenian economy, Slovenia will slip to the decline, not just down the ladder." It's the Chamber of Commerce again. Not to mention the statements of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. However, the situation in Slovenia on the other hand is deteriorating compared to a decade ago, but it is undoubtedly due to the withdrawal of multinationals from Slovenia who are moving their seats to Budapest, Bratislava, Zagreb, Belgrade. These are very well-paid jobs. Of course, there is not much to talk about in Slovenia or the Slovenian media does not write about it, because this is about hiring multinationals, about 30, 40 jobs. These are well-paid jobs, but something else needs to be stressed: these multinationals are also strengthening consumption. Such a multinational who performs on the Slovenian market is likely to take 30, 40 more service vehicles, taking up certain cleaning services that carry out their business. It's not just the salaries of employees here, but these multipliers show up in other things. The last of such departures from Slovenia is Hewlett-Packard, not to mention Procter & Gamble and all others. This means that foreign direct investment is shrinking. When we listen to the government and coalition MPs and MPs, it is as if they were world champions, as if they had won the Olympic medal, given that gross domestic product growth is projected for 2016. However, we have twice as little economic growth as is forecast for 2016 as the following countries: Czech Republic, Poland, Slovakia, Romania. That's what we're warning you about. It is not true that we in this proposal have stated anywhere that, for example, the Czech Republic and Poland are already ahead of us, but these countries are catching up to us. If they are not in front of us today, if such a government policy as we are now witnessing to them continues, we will probably be in a year's time, two can really witness that the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Romania will be ahead of us. We've never, and we've never invented this data, this data is a fact. The fact is, there are countries in certain cases ahead of us, such as Rwanda, Sierra Leone, Venezuela, Montenegro. It was also interesting to hear that certain data is a fog and that we are releasing a fog. We don't let go of the fog, we let go of the facts. It is also true that Slovenia had only once in its history a surplus in the 2007 budget when the government of Janševa was in power. After the fall of the Janša government in 2008, Slovenia recorded the lowest unemployment rate. It had above average economic growth in Europe. The economic crisis was not only felt by Slovenia, it was felt by the whole of Europe and the rest of the world. And if Slovenia could have been able to tackle the above-average score before the crisis, then if the then government, especially Borut Pahor, were to take such measures as it should, Slovenia would probably have to remain at that mid-point. But no, we were falling down here. The second term of the Janša government was unfortunately short because the lobbyists and the old nomenclature did everything they could to bring that government down. It was crucial that the government of Janez Janša, in its second term, launched for the first time a serious rehabilitation of the banking system. That's when all the lights came on, people came to the streets and started throwing from cube to cube, just to bring down the Janša government. All those sitting here, especially the SD party, strongly opposed the acceptance of Zujf. Zujf was the key project that raised the Slovenian economy and Slovenia again. Remember what words you used when you were taking Zuif. At that time, Zujf anticipated all measures in the short term, temporary measures. Now, however, the current coalition, in which you are also the Social Democrats, will take these measures from Zuyf, which the government of Janez Janša has taken as temporary, with Zipro being surrounded, for permanent purposes. Why? Probably because you thought those measures were right. But we've written down that these are temporary measures. If economic growth improves, these measures will be abolished, as this part of the savings will no longer be needed. And now you will turn these temporary measures into permanent measures. During Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek's term of office, we witnessed an increase in the value added tax rate. Even then, the government said it was a temporary measure. Even then, you were Social Democrats in this government. You're back in the government today. As we read from the media, you do not intend to change the tax rate, but you will turn it back into a permanent measure. I think that we have witnessed too many measures in the past period since 2008 to take the main action at the expense of the economy and the real sector, and governments have neglected the reforms of the health system, the pension, the public sector, not to talk about the judiciary. I don't know why this coalition advocates the judiciary. Let's get some fresh wine. All these results, all these reports say that not everything in Slovenia is what it must be and that a certain change needs to be made. And certain changes, I am sure that we can only achieve in Parliament through the participation of both the opposition and the coalition. However, we cannot follow the system to automatically reject what the opposition or the Slovenian Democratic Party is proposing, the current coalition, the government of Mir Cerar. And that you try to talk to us after you have certain things ready, and then you knock on our door. Step into the street, talk to entrepreneurs and with normal citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and ask them if they are flowing in Slovenia between milk and milk. I think you'll get the answer no. As I said at the outset, today I expect a debate on reforms on what Slovenia needs. Because of me, we can also talk about what is good in Slovenia. I believe that some things are good, but above all let us talk about things that are bad and that need to be changed. Given that Slovenia has achieved the worst rankings in all areas relating to the Government and the state apparatus, I am convinced that Parliament is the place where these discussions should also take place. Also on improving the system in the judiciary and the judiciary, I think that Parliament is the place where we should have a quality and constructive debate. In Slovenia, it takes a thousand 400 days for one working dispute and 300 days in Germany. With such an average number of judges and the money poured into the matter, such information is alarming. Not to mention the judgments falling on the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat, representative of the proposer, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Representative and Representative of the Government, especially dear colleagues and colleagues! This debate and this meeting was not intended to target the government or you, the coalition MPs and Members. On the contrary. We don't waste any energy on fights. We're wasting our energy on solutions. Such solutions, which will actually once, once led Slovenia to say that it is the best country in the world. I believe we all have this ambition. Does anyone vote against it? I'm sure it's nobody. We have all the options, both natural and intellectual in individuals. We have this chance that we can do this. We need to get together. We need to identify what we need to do and then really do it. Here we would like to first unite Members, write projects, identify the measures the Government must take, put them before the Government, and the Government has the task of executing them as executive branch of the government. If it isn't, we'll replace the government. This is what Members do or do. I am sure that if we withdraw our powers, we have a great opportunity to make such a country. Such that she is actually kind to an individual that an individual is free in the widest sense of the word of freedom. To be free, even in economic terms. Such a country, which will be friendly to families, as I have already said in the beginning, which create, which can also go on economies. We have great family businesses, great family farms. I claim that in our programme of Slovenian agriculture, the family farm is the best programme. Allow me to add a few more words on behalf of New Slovenia as co-proposer concerning the classification of Slovenia on international economic competitiveness scales, which, despite this changed trend, is still worrying. The trend has changed, this needs to be welcomed, but whenever we have some measures that are usually taken by the Government in each country, including us, then we must also pursue goals on the other hand. The measure, for example, will bring so much more money into the state budget, that is, this, this and this, will bring so much more jobs and so on. This must be pursued, because however, measures must have objectives. Or do we act aimlessly? God forbid. Some of you have commented that we have not collected the right scales and so on, so let us look at the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia. Anyone who doesn't believe him has to vote for him to stop. I'm not voting for him to stop. Let's look at the gross social product. In 2008, this amounted to EUR 37 000 305 million. In 2014, when we had 3% economic growth, which is commendable, it amounted to EUR 37 000 246 million, representing approximately 60 million less than in 2008 and 0.16% less. We must never again have 5 or 6 years of vacuum or collapse of gross social product because we know — and now I know that we have this experience — what it means. Ambassadors and Members of New Slovenia in our debates have always stressed that we need a new business model, a new economic policy, for the economic breakthrough of Slovenia. That's what Government Umar writes about. Government Umar writes about it. We need a new economic policy. Among other things, this will not be without administrative burden, without improving the business environment and without greater openness to the Slovenian economic space. We need to open our business model, we need to open it for domestic and foreign investors, we need to make a business environment that will be attractive for foreign investors to come to us. The question is why a foreign investor would come to Slovenia. Members must first know the answer to this question when we have discussions with our fellow Members or with other representatives of the countries. First, we need to know these answers. If we are talking about investors, whether domestic or foreign, the investor must also be legally insured. So I am talking about investor security, of course I am primarily talking about the security of citizens and citizens of this country. That's what I'm saying with my finger on the justice system, where there's still a lot of work ahead of us. I make it clear that government measures include consolidation of public finances, halting the increase in external debt, accelerating the privatisation of enterprises in majority state ownership – I hope that there is a genuine intention here, because I am not always 100% if there is a genuine intention – and of course accelerating the absorption of cohesion funds from the new financial perspective. Government says and government measures are going in this direction somehow, even though man would want more ambition here, more turquoise. With regard to business efficiency, we need structural reforms in the business sector based on a smart specialisation strategy, if you want. Last time, Minister Alenka Smirkolj said that the smart specialisation strategy in Europe was assessed as one of the best such documents within the EU. So we have the paper, let's always have it on the table and take it one step at a time so that we can carry it out consistently. One more thing, colleagues and colleagues. When we observe this incredible development of technology, the digital economy, I firmly believe that in Slovenia, of course with appropriate measures, we must achieve a technological breakthrough. We must strive to make a technological breakthrough in Slovenia. If not, I'm afraid we may only be dealing with final business in 10 years. And there's a calculation that doesn't bring you any standard. I would like to have rich people living with us who become rich and become rich on the basis of their own knowledge and with their own work, not those who steal. Those need to be put in jail, even if we build some more Ages. I would like, as I said, to have a friendly environment for the development of Slovenian families. However, it creates and creates an environment for a new life. Once again, if you want, for the new taxpayers. Make it sound so technical, but that's the way it is. We have a lot of options. Even to support the circulation of the brain, not the escape, and God does not expel the brain. Why not the knowledge our people have, young people, why not keep it at home? It hurts my heart to see what the perspective of young people in Slovenia have when they study and those who dare pack their suitcases and go. And they usually create a good career. Our young professor at Stanford, Jure Leskovec, won the prestigious Lagrange Award. Did any of the Slovenian politicians congratulate him and ask him if he would come home to Slovenia, in terms of brain circulation? This is what we need, colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Boris Koprivnikar, a representative of the government, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u28	Thank you, Chairman. I may not be too politically correct in this debate, given that I am probably with colleagues from SMC policies with the least tradition in this area. I have to say that I have a problem listening to what happened in 2008, what happened after 2008 to the government's position that after 2008, we are skating down the ladders. For God's sakes, I guess we know that. That's the point of the problem. Because of the fact that after 2008, which caused us to enter and enter a severe economic crisis, we have slipped so deeply on the scales, there has also been a radical change and, as a result, we are also trying to stop and go in a different direction. I am telling you this as a representative of the Government, who daily, I hope to say, hard with colleagues working so that with these measures, which we have demonstrated in the last year that trends are actually changing, we can go over this situation and still stop comparing ourselves with Sierra Leone, Nigeria, Vietnam, Namibia. Please, can anyone in this country be responsible enough to say that we are comparable with these countries? I do not think it is responsible to take just one segment, one indicator and then speak publicly and present what our country Slovenia is, but it is a top state with excellent standards, but also with many problems and development opportunities, but we cannot afford to make such a general comparison. I believe that such general comparisons and images of the negative situation due to certain economic scales, which also show such a comparison in a given indicator, also have a negative impact on the fact that the assessments in the international area are actually lower in that subjective price than the real indicators. Finally, we are also doing damage to Slovenia in the international space, when investors are watching us and when our people's assessments are based on the way our managers look at us in international business. For me, international scales or all international scales are the most important domestic progress, it is said whether the efficiency of the country is increasing. We have great problems with it, but not least with the OECD and other comparisons over the past year we are making radical progress for eleven cities. It was also a question of the judiciary. However, the colleague made it clear how short the trial period was, how few pending cases were. But these are statistics from our records, concrete, not from some international comparisons. Is competitiveness increasing? Because we have economic growth, the number of unemployed is shrinking, new jobs are emerging, I don't know where this is now in international rankings, but the trend is positive. Why don't we just admit it and speed it up? After all, do the welfare and standard of the population increase? I think that because wages are growing, gross domestic product is growing, so on this scale they are also making progress. I think that's the most important thing we have to look at. Perhaps another response to this when we constantly listen to when reforms will take place. I hope we've outgrown this radicalisation the importance of reforming everything. Over and over again, when the government is replaced, we must reform everything. I hope that both the public and the honourable Members will see that we may not be making radical reforms, but we are making improvements to all systems. All systems, some more, some less successful, are constantly improving with a number of measures, and I think that what concrete data and specific statistics also show is the right one. Consider the case of health care, which has been repeatedly exposed. When's the health reform? We have OECD analysis, if you want analysis, the most accessible health system. The most accessible! This is the great side of this system. But we have weaknesses in the exploitation of the separation between public and private, so this is the correction we have to make. But this does not require reforming the whole system, it is necessary to make continuous improvements. There was a lot of talk about the justice system. Three packages of corrections to judicial legislation that already have effects and will start to deliver effects in the coming months and years already do. These are the improvements that make me think that I can't put them to nothing and just wait for some reforms that will completely change some system. One more thing. It is very difficult for me to accept when Members or I, as a member of this government, have listened to the criticism of this government, what has been the situation since 2008 and how it has changed, saying at the same time in the same breath that economic growth is the result of the previous governments, precisely determined, while the problems that have occurred with the international ladders in recent years are the problem of this government. Let us, however, be correct. I would suggest that, even in the spirit of the positive message that the proposaler has given and I welcome, we look for solutions for improvements, but from 2008 we will focus on 2020 and ask ourselves how we will be even more successful in 2020 than we are today, because we have to carry out important tasks and improve a number of systems. However, I do not think that Slovenia is in a position to reform systems radically, as Slovenia is one of the regulated, European, democratic, social and economically successful countries and as such will strive for continuous improvement. I would also like it to go in the sense of changing the debate more in this direction than in the expectation of some radical reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Marko Pogačnik as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u30	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, we have not demanded any radical reforms, but certain reforms that Slovenia urgently needs and for which international institutions also assess, especially citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, that we need them. What helps us to have the most accessible public health care if the waiting period is 700 or a thousand days? What's that supposed to help us with? You have access, but you're waiting in line. 700 or 1,000 days. On the other hand, Mr. Secretary, you said that the government of Mira Cerar was working intensively for one year to take a series of measures. Ladies and gentlemen, please list these measures that you have taken and have contributed to economic growth. You said the wages were growing. List the sectors where wages have grown so that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia can know. I expect your answer in a relatively short time.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Finally, Mr. Jernej Rotovec. Let's get the mags ready. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u32	Dear colleagues, thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State and Minister of State! When I listen to the coalition, and also to the respected minister, I get the feeling that there is nothing wrong with this country and that you are leaking between milk and milk. That is exactly the way a person feels when following this debate. The scales we define in these documents show that, unfortunately, not everything is as it should be in Slovenia. They are just one of the indicators, in addition to the reality that reigns in Slovenia, and are actually our mirror. We need to be aware that they're our mirror if we want them or not. Not everything is what it has to be, no matter what these scales are, because I don't care about these scales either, and I don't care about them, but the reality is what matters. If everything is not as it should be, we have been warned by economists for a long time. As a politician, I cannot take advantage of the fact that I will watch and compare myself only with what has happened since last year, when I was elected to this National Assembly, because I have not only a tree in front of me, but the entire forest that it is. Economists have been pointing out the problem for a long time, as I said, that Slovenia is lagging behind in implementing certain reforms, this year too. If politics followed these warnings, then there would certainly be no such problems, and this position on these scales would not be the same as it is. I would mention competitiveness, which has already been a lot of talk today. I'd like to point out our tax burden. What have we done, even this year, to tax our economy? Our economy is far from burdened by all taxes, taxes and contributions, throughout the European Union. It is time to take action to give the economy additional oxygen so that it can uninterruptedly employ, create uninterrupted jobs, create economic growth. I'd also like to point out red tape. We're completely on the tail between 61 countries. But let's leave this scale, the key thing is that the mayors of Slovenian municipalities are coming to us or those who want to invest in Slovenia are telling us that we can't. They come to one ministry and they send them to another ministry, and then Arso, and that agency, the third agency, is here, so they've been going on for years to get a building permit. I am therefore talking about an extremely unloving environment for any entrepreneurial idea or for those entrepreneurs who would like to expand their production. They don't even get building permits, they can't put buildings in space in time. It's a state of law. The rule of law is one of the conditions for the normal functioning of the State. For someone who invests money in this country, it is essential that his money is safe, that he has no sense that this money can disappear. In doing so, it is worth pointing out when the State Secretary spoke about the scales that in March 2014 the European Commission received an EU Justice Scoreboard, so they are not old indicators where it states that more efficient justice systems and the review shows that the Republic of Slovenia has one of the lowest levels of perceived independence of justice in the European Union. The European Commission, this is not about any other independent or any other institution. Here, in the rule of law, let me mention the economic conflicts that have taken place for too long. The bankruptcy proceedings in the Republic of Slovenia take place for more than 10, 15 years and companies go bankrupt later. But who's going to invest in this country, what kind of signal do we send outside Slovenian borders? Furthermore, the last week is the hot topic and the related economic freedom. 111 countries in 2002, 58 countries on this same scale. At least an economically free country throughout the European Union. The impact of policy on decisions, the impact of policy on the economy, as it seems somehow in recent months that this government is not serious about privatisation. Furthermore, related networks and lobbying and corruption, DUTB. Mr Nyberg, a recognised banker, has sent one letter to the Government, in which he defines the implementation of policies of pressure, where he has pointed out Mr Marble. Before this assembly, it is time, Mr Dragonja, to say whether or not there have been pressures. If you can't, I would like to point out once again that Mr. Marble is here, which you can call to deny. But all of this suggests that something with our country is very wrong, because a paradox is happening. At the same time, you say that DUTB works extremely effectively and well, while we as the Government have lost confidence in the functioning of DUTB, which is the first illogical link. Second of all, it is no longer a matter of mistrust, but it is an illegal act, and we forget that we have solved only one part of those who allegedly committed an illegal act, the others you set up in March, but are still in position. So it's inequality. The Minister also stressed that we are trying to stop the drifting by measures. I would like to see at least 10 of these measures implemented last year. And you're not talking about an information cloud that's going to happen, you're talking about measures, in the sense that we did what we did in health, in that area, specifically, because that's all that matters, which is what the international institutions are also alerting us to. I am afraid that we will somehow fall asleep in this economic growth. I support and encourage the Government, but let this economic growth somehow make you aware that it is the fruit of some measures, but especially of our good exporters and economists who are working and exporting. The solutions are certainly to start with measures to call reforms or otherwise, i.e. with health reform, judicial tax reform, pension reform, labour market reform. It is imperative that we do not talk about the lost decade, the lost country and the lost generation. For this reason, I invite you to try to listen to the opposition during this debate in these good intentions and to take the debate for granted, but not as some kind of impulse that only and only a coalition wants. For the year has passed, and we can also conclude from the budgets that there are no funds foreseen on these items that would follow the preparation of some reforms or measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Alenka Bratusek. Let's get Mrs. Susana Pretty Chimenka ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u34	Thank you very much, and a nice greeting on my behalf as well! True, some numbers are listed in the material. I have no doubt that these numbers hold, the statistics can be used one way or another. The fact is, perhaps some of these numbers have changed in the last period, but far from being satisfied with the situation and the situation. It is also far from the idea that the government of Mira Cerar is responsible. Far from it. But you are responsible, the government and the coalition, for what happened in the last year, exactly what Minister Koprivnikar said. Perhaps it would be right for us to discuss at today’s meeting exactly this, the last year of the government’s work and this coalition. The budgets for 2016 and 2017 are ahead of us in the National Assembly, and these two budgets are actually the first budgets to actually show the direction of the government. But I have participated on several committees alone, and in fact we have not heard anywhere the basic political orientations of the new government, which would also be reflected through the budget. There's talk, but there's something else to do. The right area, Minister, has been chosen because nothing has really been done in the field of health in the last year. The waiting types are prolonged, waiting types are prolonged, the country's largest public institution still has no leadership, from affair to affair we are dealing with the largest public institution, the same as the Oncology Institute, where, if I have read correctly, even the President of the Government is invited by someone to replace the entire world of the institution. So you have chosen an excellent area to show that nothing has really been done this year. We can go further, towards the environment, into the infrastructure field. I'll give you an example - the second track. Bo, he won't, we don't need him, we don't need him? Ping pong from one side to the other, by giving himself a ball on one side to the other, because he can't tell, he won't. For the last time, they said on the committee that because we need the second track that is urgently needed, we have 24 million in the budget. The minister advocates a project that weighs a billion 400. Do you know how long it would take to build a second track with this kind of funding dynamic? 100 years. 100 years. I join my colleagues in putting concrete measures on the table, not only 'we did, we proposed'. Let's go, one, two, three, four, five and look at them. You can listen to us sometimes and ask us what we think it would be worth doing. Then let's make an evaluation last year. Of course, you have not been in charge of the country since 2008, nor for 2012, nor for 2013, nor for 2014, because you have been in charge of the country since October. I'm giving you the ball back, too. It actually works to me like you chose the way that if you don't work, you don't sin, or if you don't make decisions, you can't make mistakes, but I don't think it's the right way. The fact is that Slovenia has had very difficult times since 2009 in recent years. The fact is, not only Slovenia, but practically the whole of Europe. In recent years a number of things have been done, we have managed to stabilize the country, the pressures have decreased significantly, and now we have time to do things that need to be changed. A lot of things have been done, like I said before, and far from being done. I think that after 390 days of your government – I hope I did the right thing – really is the time to start serious work and for the good of the people. I always listen, or you keep looking for excuses and talking about inherited problems and beating your chest because of a better economic situation. I propose, Minister, that we really put on the table these measures, which have brought improvement to Slovenia, and we will find out how and what. But even more important than what you have done in the last year is what you plan to do in the next three or at least two years, so for as long as we have a state budget ahead of us. I'm looking forward to the information we're about to hear from you. Finally, I can't get past one of the pages of the modern centre's Twitter site. You wrote: "The SMC Group supports any quality debate to improve the system in the Republic of Slovenia, not because of the charts, but because of the commitment to citizens." I hope that I will not sound too harsh, respected colleagues and colleagues, if I say that you are not a society and a debate circle where we will talk, but you are the largest party in this House, you are the largest party to this coalition and we expect action from you, and this action for the good of the country and people.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka has the floor. Get Mr. Dusan Radič ready. Here you go, Mrs. Pretty Chimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished representatives of the Government, welcome to my side as well! Slovenia falls across all international scales, scales prepared by very different institutions, independent institutions. I believe that one of you may have a problem with independent foreign institutions and experts, but I think it is right that we are talking about this today in the National Assembly. However, today's point of view is in a way an appeal to the Government that some concrete measures must also be taken, which has already been exposed several times today. For Slovenia is not yet on the right track. We've heard here today that these scales show a distorted picture, and it's not as bad as we want to show it. But then we can say that statistics also show a distorted picture, including data on the unemployed and economic growth, showing a distorted picture. If we just look at economic growth. Why do we have it? For the sake of exporters; because companies have adapted to the market situation; because our biggest partners have changed the situation, they have improved; but mainly because of the infrastructure projects of municipalities; because of the use of European funds, which we will not have in the next year, as it were, given that we have no invitation to tender outside. When we look at data on the unemployed from month to month, there is a slight decline, but no one wonders how many in the last year, two of our citizens and citizens, young people, have gone to neighbouring Austria and other European countries. That's not what we're asking. We are still not talking about the fact that, given the pre-crisis period, we still have 60,000 more unemployed. We can also say here that these statistics are distorted. I will focus more on the economic freedom scale, because I think it is extremely important because, in fact, the first condition for greater competitiveness of the economy, but I think the competitiveness of the economy is crucial. It is crucial that all of us, citizens and citizens, better have jobs, jobs. What does this scale show? That we have one economic model where the state plays too much a role, that politics interferes with the economy, that it prevents the privatisation of state property, that there is no developmental orientation and that there is no structural reform. I think we need to think about these results of the economic freedom scale. Being in 111th place and with which countries we are together in this 111st place is not that important. However, it is important to ask, because we will slowly fall into the last quarter if we continue with this trend. Why is that important? Because in these countries, which are economically free, everywhere, better well-being, higher per capita GDP, higher average income, people live on average longer. It's probably not negligible. And what is usually done in these countries? It protects private property, fair contracts are implemented, it takes care of a stable monetary policy, taxes are reduced and there are no barriers to domestic or foreign trade. These things are crucial. If we just look at the Doing Business scale — or in a very short time a new one will come, but anyway — we can ask ourselves why this scale is important. Because it's mostly viewed by investors. For them, this scale is important. Because last year, when the results of this scale came in, Slovenia said that Slovenia was a country in which it was not at all appropriate to invest. Not only are they worse conditions, but it is a country in which it is not appropriate to invest. Believe that foreigners who decide where they will deposit their money will study the area in great detail and all business conditions in each country. How important it is, not least this international competitiveness scale. Of course, it is also worrying that many businesses, both domestic and foreign, are going abroad. Very worrying. We're losing jobs. Now, here's an up-to-date case from Maribor. Otherwise, I do not know the background and details, but Palfinger has been negotiating land with the Municipality of Maribor since 2013. Since 2013 But they want to expand their production. It's 600 jobs. But we're obviously so bureaucratic or, I don't know, we're afraid of foreigners, although they're doing very well, but they're one of the rare companies in Maribor that works well. But last but not least, it's 600 jobs. They should be primarily important in the congregation, but they are not. And what are they going to do? They'd rather go abroad. They will, however, go to neighbouring countries if the matter is not resolved properly. This is of exceptional importance for a city such as Maribor, at least in general for all of Slovenia, a city where special emphasis has been placed on how much we have to do in new jobs. What's going on? Complication of complication. If we look at all these scales very quickly and somehow draw the line, what do we see? That we are actually weak in public consumption, in tax burdens, especially the burdens of wages, in independence, impartiality of the judiciary, in lengthy judicial proceedings, in non-friendly foreign investment, in employment regulations, in particular labour market inflexibility and red tape, in various administrative requirements, in obtaining building permits and so on. All we want is to really be aware of what needs to be done in this country. I believe that if we look at these scales very wide and we elude the essence from each one, that's what we really have to do. That's why we're talking here today. It is not intended to condemn, nor to blame, who is responsible for what part, that it is important that we be aware and that we urgently need to do specific things. All minor improvements are also important, but things need to be done in concrete terms. And if you call it reforms or improvements, it doesn't matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Dusan Radič has the floor to prepare Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! When we received the proposal for a recommendation on the table with regard to the deteriorating rankings on international scales, I was, in truth, really worried when I started reading all these different scales up and down, seeing Vietnamese, Nigerians and all those other citizens waving together on a path I don't know. Five minutes later, I find a shocking news that Slovenia has the ninth healthiest economy in the euro area. I thought that was definitely the case in 2008, but no, this is the news from 2014. In an analysis of Euro Plus Monitor prepared by the Lisbon Council, whose Slovenian external advisor is Dr. Žiga Turk, and the German private bank Berenberg, whose leading economists are Dr. Holger Schmieding and Dr. Christian Schulz, you will not find Slovenia among the largest European hospitals. That's why you'll find France in front of us. It is an analysis of how much progress has been made in the recovery of the crisis in 2014 by members of the euro area and Poland, Sweden and the United Kingdom and how healthy their economies are. Schmieding, who worked in the International Monetary Fund prior to his arrival in Berenberg, and Schulz, who worked for the European Central Bank prior to his arrival, placed Slovenia on the gold average. According to the progress indicators, we have taken 11th place from 20 countries. According to the general health indicators, 7th place where only Estonia, Germany, Luxembourg, Slovakia, the Netherlands and Sweden beat us. Being on average isn't such a bad situation. We're not among the best, but not among the worst. After one of the indicators, following the resistance to financial shocks, we have ranked, you will not believe, even at the very top of the scale. This means that we are more resistant to financial shocks than any other country with the euro and also Poland, Sweden and the United Kingdom. This is due to the fact that the Slovenian banking system is relatively small in terms of the size of the domestic economy and therefore our problems are manageable even without external assistance. And there's something else about these scales. When it comes to how much fiscal effort has been made by individual countries to balance public finances, it is better to be in the middle than at the top of the scale. This same study places the first place after this on Greece, but we all know what sacrifice this high classification was made of the Greek population. Greece also has the highest unemployment rate in the European Union. On the 21-nation scale, Slovenia climbed to the highest level on two criteria, if possible quickly opening new jobs and after the share of the total balance sheet sum of banks in the share of gross domestic product. The lowest place in the indicators was Slovenia reached at the cost of work where it took 20th place. And some thanks for our Slovenia, because maybe you don't know what country we live in. According to statistics, Slovenia is among the safest countries in the world, we are in fourth place, more safe than Slovenia are Denmark, Norway and Singapore. And another news that has literally taken me away from the fact that the European Transport Safety Council – European Transport Safety Council – has placed Slovenia first in Europe in its latest report of June 2015 on the performance of countries in the field of road safety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mrs Andreja Potočnik. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u40	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! In view of today's topic in which we are discussing the situation of Slovenia, I would particularly advise the applicants of today's extraordinary session to stop talking about Slovenia as a transitional country, but as a country that is independent and sovereign. If we came from this point of view, many of the debates that are being held here today would not actually be necessary. But since you're still thinking about the transition state and the fact that everything that's state-owned needs to be sold out so that we can end the transition, we're here where we are. About all those words I said when my colleague was a magician. Marko Pogačnik had previously tried to point out what we had been alerting him to the fact that if we transferred 13 billion Slovenian assets to the Slovenian state holding company, this property would become the property of this company and the country would lose 13 billion in a moment. I've marked this as the theft of the century. And if we look today, what's really going on with the New Maribor Credit Bank? We have put EUR 780 million in this bank, sold for 250 million, and we guarantee all the bad obligations that may arise from interference with subordinate obligations. So we gave it away. What's different than stealing? If we are also looking at intervention in private companies, a bad bank has been created to sell out cheap private companies. This is DUTB, a process of cheap sale of private companies that had leased loans in Slovenia. If we look at what is going on with these companies and how this is happening, we have recently held a debate and we have all at once agreed that this is the most untransparent way to sell, that there is great damage and that it is finally the most expensive way to sell and rehabilitate our companies and banks. In addition to selling this property, which was private and maintained, we also recapitalised banks for almost 5 billion. That's the most expensive way to solve this. If today and all this time we were thinking of being in an independent and sovereign state, we would not be listening to the foreign language. We're doing this because we're trying to make a big adjustment to the outside world. Why are we doing this? Now, Mr Pogačnik, I must read the facts. 30. 11. In 2004, Slovenia had an international reserve of 6,579 billion. Looking at 2008, the international reserves fell by 5,836 billion. 5.836 billion euros were spent. Why? Where did these billions go from 2004 to 2008? If we look at the foreign reserve on 30. 11. 2004–7.377 billion euros and 2008–633 million foreign reserves. Where have 6,744 billion foreign reserves been spent in these four years? Net external debt. 31. Ten. In 2004, Slovenia had EUR 1.2 billion of net external debt, currently EUR 7.2 billion. Where did this money go again when the net external debt increased from 1.2 billion to 7.2 billion? Gross external debt 31. Ten. 2004 – €15 billion, 2008 – €40 billion. That's how much the external debt went up. Loans to the non-bank sector. For example, 2004 loans were 12.8 billion, which was completely manageable because we had 14.7 billion non-bank sector deposits. So we had more deposits than we did in 2004, so we were even positive for 1.9 billion euros. In 2008, the debt amounted to 33.5 billion. We therefore owed ourselves annually, the banks and the economy, by 27%. Nowhere in any economy can and will not last. Since the deposits in these banks were significantly lower, we owed ourselves abroad. We lost economic freedom in Slovenia during the 2004-2008 term. That's the truth. And we are still saving this economic unrest today. Everything that has been going on during this period, however, must be said that in the mandate of Borut Pahor, which was mentioned, was a very important measure to preserve jobs and that we helped the economy, that it survived, that we had not experienced an even greater economic breakdown than otherwise, because of the economic and financial crisis. Slovenia has entered this crisis unprepared. Even in 2007, Prime Minister Janez Janša said that the economic crisis would not harm Slovenia. Who then brought Slovenia unprepared for the economic and financial crisis? There was a lot of money at the time, huge economic growth, but, as we can see, it was used in the way that we were then occupied, both by banks and by the economy. Of course, these are the starting points we face today. When we talk about extending the measures of the Public Finance Balance Act, we have noted that these measures are excessive and that the decline in economic growth will be exceptional, which has also happened. Therefore, Slovenia was in an even more difficult position than if this ZUJF had not been adopted. Today some measures are being extended, even because we have adopted a fiscal rule, my dears. With fiscal rule, let me say that I was against this fiscal rule, we committed ourselves to drastically reducing public spending. From that point on, we no longer have economic freedom. This is a story that I think we talked about a lot even when we adopted this law, and I also made it very clear that the fiscal rule for Slovenia is nothing more than that we are on a German or French train only one pole that can be roasted at any time because we have become completely dependent. It is our concern that we realize, however, that this sovereignty of Slovenia must be restored, that we must be economically independent and no longer listen to foreigners. If I just come back for a moment to study the OECD for the second track. When someone like the world-renowned international institution tells you that you do not need another track, because it will not be economically justified for you, it is, excuse me, a very harmful opinion for the economic development of Slovenia, for economic autonomy, also for job creation and not least for the development of the whole of Slovenia. This blind tracking of all these reports coming from abroad without having a critical look inside of us at exactly everything that was happening in the time of the independent state is somehow incorrect. I must admit that on several occasions when I spoke with a foreign stater, I looked at the indebtedness of the country from which the stater came, and in fact found that he had more debt than Slovenia, but better credit ratings than Slovenia. And when I asked him what his opinion was, he said they never speak ill of their country outside. What are we doing? I am sure that this application to the European Commission came from Slovenia. For those fights, a couple of million euros had to be sold if you didn't go bankrupt because it was illegal state aid. It's just one of the last cases. Not to mention when even the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance, Mr Šuštaršič, said that Slovenia would go bankrupt. At that point, interest rates began to rise on those loans that were leased 2004-2008 and even in the later period when this was attempted to be resolved. It's a reality.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mrs Andreja Potočnik has the floor to prepare Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u42	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues! At the beginning of my debate, let me stress that I am always in favour of debates that allow or lead us to better thinking through the debate, to better ideas for a better life for citizens and citizens. The second is whether or not the debates make sense for international scales. If we come up with new ideas from these discussions that will enable the lives of citizens and citizens in a better field, I absolutely support them. Let me begin by giving us a story in the Bled Strategic Forum – those you were at the beginning of there, I apologize for hearing it again – said Mr Donald Tusk, President of the European Council. He said that he had once gone to Brussels to a local store where the owner came from Arab countries. Of course, this owner did not know that he was talking to the President of the European Council. He gave him this talk to see Mr Putin as a great leader, that Mr Putin is indeed an example of a good world leader. Mr Donald Tusk asked him back how he was not there, and this owner replied that he was not, because he is doing a good job in Brussels. This debate today may also remind me in one part of it, in the sense that we like to commend other countries, we like to commend other practices, especially Switzerland and the Northern State, but when you ask someone after the actions, it says that no, because it is basically okay here. It is right that we always want to compare ourselves with better countries, but it would also be right to be able to boast here too, because I say that if we say today that everything is so bad, we also speak through our workers that they are doing bad products, that they are doing bad services. Does that hold? I don't think so. I think Slovenian workers and all workers in Slovenia do good, quality products, offer quality services, but I am not talking about the fact that the possibilities for improvement always remain. Of course, we must never fall asleep in this area. Perhaps I would like to highlight in the debate the positive trends in Slovenia. If citizens and citizens listen to me, it is also right to hear the positive side. In the second quarter of 2015 our GDP is 2.6%. The unemployment rate in the Republic of Slovenia in July is 9.1%, with 9.5% in the EU. We've reduced unemployment by 6,000 8 people. The International Institute of Management says that after 4 years of falling, the city has improved in competitiveness, and we are now 49th place, which means that we are better for 6 cities. I am not saying that this is ideal, but I am talking about the trend improving. Everyone you've proposed today is sorry, but in one year you can't change everything to your head. There's no way. Not in one year. Nor has it been said in two years that we can improve the city's competitiveness by about 50%. I'm not saying we don't want it, but it's not that simple. I also wish we could get to the pre-crisis level. Other countries have also had a crisis, and not everyone today is at the level they had before the crisis. The debate mentioned that we have not proposed any action. Since I am the president of the Committee on the Economy, I will give an example of economic growth measures in the field of the economy, in particular. This year's budget provides for higher funds to promote tourism, particularly foreign tourism. We are aware that tourism brings 12% of GDP in Slovenia, according to a 12% share of GDP. As we increase the budget for the promotion of tourism, I am confident that we will also increase GDP. This is a measure, dear colleagues, which you have proposed. This is a concrete measure. So much for once, at the end of the debate, if I assess it, I'll be in touch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The speaker has the floor, Mr Marko Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u44	Madam President, thank you for the floor. I have decided after these two discussions, Mr Weber's Member of Parliament and the MEP of the Modern Centre Party, that there is a need to react a little. I am sure that this play with numbers to the left, and especially to the right the gross indebtedness of the country Dear colleague Weber, who can rule you, your colleague or me to take credit or not to do it? [[…]] What government? You don't play with these numbers. This is mainly the speech of the Social Democrats, which you like to use very much. No President of the Government, thank God, if we come so far as to be able to determine who will be able to take credit, who will not, and I think it will be very bad. Once again, I am still convinced that this debate today, or the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party, either you do not want to take the matter seriously or you do not understand it. We just want to have a debate here in the National Assembly and cut down some facts. Here we always listen to one and the same way that the situation in Slovenia is improving, how economic growth is growing, how we have more than 2%, how the unemployment rate is decreasing. Then I ask you why you will then turn the temporary measures from the ZUJF into permanent measures. That's all. Why do you want to wrap this up in the Budget Implementation Act – ZIPRO, 2017? Here we have one of the ministers, I think even the Vice-President of the Government of Mir Cerar, we have the Secretary of State from the Ministry of Finance. Give only to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and, above all, to the social partners why you are turning this temporary measure into a permanent measure, why not reduce the rate of value added tax. Tourism was mentioned. Tourism was probably not mentioned this way, but also through the tourism competitiveness scale Slovenia falls. I am sure that Slovenia should survive more from tourism. The fact is, in the last period, the All-Slovenian tourist pearls have been picked up by Croatian companies. We are dealing with both the DUTB and these similar investments, but what is also ours is in a relatively worrying state. When you like to highlight the promotion of tourism, what helps us to promote tourism, if the guest comes to a decaying hotel and if the owners of the tourist capacity have failed to invest in the last ten years. Look at Croatia, I think that more than 6 billion have been invested in the reconstruction of tourist facilities and hotel renovations in this year. It was also mentioned that we have a stable and healthy banking system. But remember that we taxpayers have saved this 5 billion-euro banking system. If we had a different one, then it would be really worrying to invest five billion euros, but you don't have a stable banking system. I expect clarifications, mainly by the Minister present and the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u45	Thank you. Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u46	Dear Mr. Minister, members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! Someone wrote that there is a country in Europe that borders the Balkans and is limited to itself. Unfortunately, he was referring to Slovenia. This is what really hurts me, because I think we're putting ourselves too many obstacles to be more successful. What did we mean when we signed this meeting? In fact, to draw attention to things that should and could be better, but unfortunately they are not and are going to a number of things that are worse. Even if we're on all the charts, I don't know whichever of the worst will still be my country, my country, which I love best. Therefore, I think it is right that we discuss these problems, see what goes wrong and what we need to fix. Again and again in this House, we are talking about too much unemployment, too many young people going abroad, so that economists complain about the labour legislation and so on. A specific case because we had a regional visit to New Slovenia yesterday and we visited quite a few companies. Someone received a good order, and he should urgently increase the production facilities, seeking from the congregation to the congregation where they are suitable. However, he knows that within a short period of time, i.e. within one year, he will not be able to obtain different consents and permits in order to expand his production, although he urgently needs these spaces, and we urgently need new jobs. That's what we want to point out. There are, therefore, too many things that could be eliminated by a few laws or by reducing procedures and could be far more successful. This is how we set ourselves some obstacles that we do not know how to get through, so that we can improve these indicators, which always show us how uncompetitive we are, how investors do not want to come to us, because we have too many contributions and taxes because they do not get the right consents and permits, and so on. We have many successful companies, and we meet them, and I am very happy to have them, because I know that because of their efforts, their work, the efforts of these workers and their employers have paid taxes and this country can function. Of course, there are things that need to be improved and we want to draw attention to these things with this meeting. But it's like no scale is a hundred percent. We can read it one way or another. We know that when we were in the government, it was those who were in the opposition that you spoke quite differently than when you came into the government and basically carried out our actions further, and we spoke differently again. That is the policy, but it must be the tendency of all of us to make Slovenia a more successful country and to eliminate all that we can do and not do because of our stupidity.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u47	Thank you. Mr. Magg has the word. Branko Grims, get Mr. Ivan Škodnik ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u48	Good-bye to all of you! Of course, Slovenia is in trouble, we all know that, because of such governments as it regrets at the moment. The fact that we now have the third failed government of the transition left, while Slovenia gives the possibility that none of the migrants will want to stay here if they have any other option, but this is a bad comfort. Even migrants flee from Slovenia. When asked if he wanted to stay in Slovenia, he said, "Oh, Stalin, Lenin, Marx, goodbye, go to hell!", literally a quote. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the problem we are actually facing. The problem of us formally being in democracy, formally like the entire democratic developed world, is that we are developing democratic social order, and in fact, most people still have Marx and socialism as the only saving tool in their heads. Then what we are witnessing now is that someone gets sent to the Ljubljana Bank for a reward for a dirty deal, three quarters of a million in one year, no one can explain why. What happens when this opens up as a problem? Suddenly, the whole management of the so-called bad bank has to be dropped because someone got 200 grand, which is too much money. What about the one who got four times the money for nothing? That's not the problem, is it? This is a real situation, so don't tell me that the direction of this government is honesty, persecution of corruption, and I don't know what. It's a systemic corruption of a couple of excellencies. If anyone finds a better one in all of Europe, I personally congratulate him personally, but I say he will not. This is the problem that makes Slovenia go back. That's why we're on the charts out there on the floor. Now we can go, which data is and which is not, but to what, as previously deceived by Mr Weber, we used to call 'wiccoliade' because it was Mr Squeakle who liked to do that, that he was mixing apples and pears. What did he do? He was talking about the private credits that the renters are responsible for and the bank that he's giving him. While, if you want to talk about real things, you have to talk about those loans that taxpayers stand for. That's a public debt, by the way. You will not believe that just in the time of John Janša, this is the period he spoke about, the public debt was declining, and this was the only period since the independence of the public debt was reduced. Then it exploded. What's the matter? When Borut Pahor took over power, which, by the way, is precisely the party of the gentleman who spoke earlier, they made a budget rebalance in which they increased spending by almost a million, at the same time that they themselves announced that the revenues would be reduced. They have made scissors that have never been closed and that are only growing, which, of course, is why public debt today is only catastrophic. This is so if the state interferes with the economy. The fact that, of course, it is no different now can be seen in the final event. After the new Savo is saved through the so-called bad bank, its claims, and all of this is about to be redeemed by the state's own funds, in order to get rid of what was sometimes called "our hammer" because you know what was in the previous regime and who was called "our hammer". That's really what makes us all the worse. In this way we have established a country in Slovenia that operates abroad as an exot. The country in which the entire state leadership enjoys the red flag with sickle and hammer, under the image of someone who personally killed people, in a hall where there is no national flag, the Slovenian flag, is a national ceremony. You will not find this in Europe, it is only in Slovenia. It's no wonder if a poor migrant comes along and says, "Foot, here's Marx and Lenin, let's run somewhere else because there are poor people here." Because socialism is equality in poverty, this must be said very clearly. Nowhere else in the world has socialism been equality in wealth, but equality in total poverty. It is therefore perfectly absurd that this is being offered over and over again as a solution and thus trying to blur what is the essence of the story. The point of the story is that this government does nothing. This government is working on that former LDS foro that the best decision is not a decision, let everything go its own way. There has never been any serious reform. It also mentions justice, and it is mentioned again and again, because Europe reminds us that this is one of the key problems for the efficiency of the Slovenian economy, as there is no adequate effective legal protection within a reasonable time. Pika. And what does the minister do? It comes to a hearing where it commits itself to absolutely supporting, say, the penile function of compensation, which is really behind the fact that whole social systems don't work as they should because it's not the right responsibility, because sometimes it's consciously caused by damage because it's calculated that smaller instead of doing well and responsible. But then a year goes by and there's nothing, there's no sign of promises, there's no sign of anything. That's why the system doesn't work, because it's not really willing to make a difference. And the matter is very simple in truth, ladies and gentlemen. If we want to get off these scales, the recipe is simple. It is only necessary to look at Austria's Koroška and to establish such legislation – and, of course, to implement it, which is essential – as in Austria's Koroška. That it will be an environment that will favour entrepreneurship; that it will be an environment that will support young entrepreneurship; that it will be an environment with a functioning banking system; that it will be an environment that gives legal certainty; that it will be an environment where everyone lives well and has the opportunity to maximize their potential. That's all we need. Minimum changes in direction, but maximum changes in the thinking of entrepreneurship becoming a value. Not that someone hangs on the bosoms of the country's mother and the entrepreneurs are burdened over all reasonable measures, but then, of course, he owes himself abroad. What do entrepreneurs do? They move their business well abroad, from what everyone celebrates today and forgets that he has moved to Italy, to all those entrepreneurs from Gorenjska who move to neighbouring Austria, where they have a favourable environment for entrepreneurship. This is all that needs to be done, but it takes serious will to achieve these changes. Then, believe me, suddenly we won't be on the tail scales anymore, but on top of where we used to be. It is simply necessary to adopt a value system in such a way as to allow maximum exploitation of development potentials. Because today, sovereignty is defended by successful entrepreneurship. This is the only long-term real basis for the well-being of all, for good jobs, for added value, for everything that ultimately gives good life, what we consider to be a person worth living, including pensions. Everything else, including the establishment and abandonment of the current state, is a bluff that is baseless and leads to further deleveraging and further spiraling. Because that's where we really are. Those who say that growth is at this point, people of God, we were up here in 2008 and then under the governments of the transition left we went down. And if things turn a little bit around here now, there's still a terrible difference. Once we're back here and from here we'll grow up to hunt the European average, but not to drift away from it, but then we can talk about real growth. Until then, there is no point in worrying about the mirror they set for us with these scales in foreign institutions, but we need to think about what we can do for people, for a better life, for entrepreneurship a favourable environment, that is, for the real basis of prosperity for present and future generations.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u49	Replica, Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u50	I'd like to correct Mr Grimes' statement. It's not about mixing pears and apples. All these private loans, private loans that were leased between 2004 and 2008, became public when we recapitalised the bank, that's our money, and when we transferred these claims to a bad bank. At that point, it's a public debt. And we all carry that burden now. So it's very consistent. At that time, this should be limited, but this did not happen on the part of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor to prepare Mrs Ksenija Korenjak Kramar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Vice-President of the Government and other representatives of the Government, colleagues and fellow Members, welcome! Today we are discussing Slovenia, a country that is actually on international scales. I would stop when I actually thought about this situation that was created in Slovenia and decided to go into politics. I remember a colleague who had been in politics for over 20 years who told me that I would go into politics now when everything was "shit" and there was nothing more to be done. But he's been in politics for over 20 years. I told him back then that's why I decided, because I have kids, although we can't do enough for the kids, because it's too short a time, and we'll work for the grandchildren. Surely it is in this hall, if I look around a little bit on the faces, a few grandchildren here, so you will agree with me that we need to do something for our grandchildren and work for our grandchildren and, of course, for the country as well. So much for a start. I would quote or repeat after Mr Horvato of New Slovenia, who said earlier that government measures must have objectives. I couldn't agree more. Before that, however, Mr Marko Pogačnik, who spoke somehow about his government, the government of Janez Janša, was also very talkative. I don't mind at all, and I know that a lot of good was done between 2004 and 2008. But in 2012, you made some serious mistakes. One thing's for sure is that you went to school together. And that's what I said earlier that Horvath said that measures must have goals. There was no point back then. You've been putting schools together as hard as you can without any calculations as you can. I wouldn't go into detail. Since I was also in the economy, I would, at the outset, quote Minister Zdravko Počvalska, who said: "To be competitive means to sell products and services outside the Republic of Slovenia". I think we have quite a lot of entrepreneurs, but I will not say that they have been created now, in this government, but all the measures that are being prepared now are meant to support this export-oriented economy. A plan to improve competitiveness. The following measures seem very important to me. Firstly, measures to increase competitiveness by the Ministry of Finance in 2016 and 2017, namely the amendment of the Tax Procedure Act, were adopted by the Government. What does he mean? This facilitates the application of the regulation to improve the administrative safety of taxpayers. The second is the amendment to the Law on the implementation of the customs rules of the European Community. Thirdly, the government will seek solutions to relieve labour in the direction of restructuring the burden of public duties. Fourth time, real estate tax. There is much to talk about and, of course, much to talk about. But with measures to increase competitiveness by the Ministry of the Economy, there is also a lot of talk today, it is certainly very important to reduce administrative barriers. Much has been said about this in previous governments, but not much has changed. Secondly, a reduction in labour costs. If we work on costs, we'll be competitive, that's certainly a condition. Thirdly, the flexibility of labour law with the aim of greater employment. The aim of this government is to hire more young people, although the scale or percentage of this has recently been slightly improved, but this is being improved more in the fourth and fifth stages, and for young people with higher education, it has been frankly not done enough. A whole bunch of laws were passed on the Committee on the Economy, not listed here, trade laws, anti-competitiveness laws, acquisition and so on. The most important or important part of this government seems to me that this government has stabilised the political space in Slovenia. And that's the first condition that it can be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u53	Ms Ksenija Korenjak Kramar has the floor to prepare Mrs Eva Irgl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that. Previous debaters said they did not want to deal with statistics, but rather to discuss what should be done. Now that I am listening to this debate, I regret to hear that something needs to be changed, that we need changes in the area of improving the economic situation, that we need changes in the direction of improving the business environment. Nothing concrete. I also heard the obvious that we're having a lot of discussions and we're doing a little bit. However, forgive us, we are aware of the problems, we are aware of the need to improve the business environment, we are aware of the need to create jobs, and we are aware of the need to make tax, labour and elsewhere reforms. Even the judiciary, as the debaters have identified before me. It is precisely because we are aware of this that we are discussing, but we are also working after the debate. And since we are working, we have proposed and have already implemented a number of systemic measures. And now I'm going to start with a change on the side of the economy. I will list the systemic measures that we have recently implemented: the amendment of the takeover law, the amendment of the Company Act, the Trade Act, the Business Register Act, the law on the out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes is in the process. Why not? To create these conditions that will improve and create a better economic environment. But it comes a long way with little steps. It is therefore necessary to take all those steps in order to achieve a better business environment and with all the changes that have already been made and will still be achieved. You've all told justice that nothing happens, nothing happens. We had two packages of judicial legislation. We have both followed transparency, responsibility, transparency in both procedures and personnel. With the amendments proposed for judicial legislation, for the Law on Judicial Service and the Law on Courts, we have followed precisely to improve the situation in justice. We have also achieved that the timing of the hearing, i.e. the trial, is decreasing. It is true, however, that there is still some room for manoeuvre, that we have a challenge to reduce this time. We're aware of that, and we're gonna do it. Even in the future, as you know, there are laws in the procedure that will contribute to this, but not from today to tomorrow. We all know that. Today's debate makes me very sad. We said we didn't want to discuss statistics. We really do not want to discuss statistics, but we want to discuss what we will do. But I think today this debate and this way are terribly innovative. Innovative in that we know in a very innovative way – or at least the proponents – how we start this debate, because we could start it differently. We could start it on each of the committees we have, where we are dealing with individual proposals, where we could specifically talk about proposals. No, we'll figure out today's debate. If we set aside the time we spend here today, instead of discussing what we all know we need to improve the business environment, that we need to contribute to this, we need to improve the business environment in order to create new jobs. [[…]] We all know that. I do not think that today's multi-hour debate is necessary in this direction, but how we will do it is necessary. But I don't think we're talking about this here today. I think it would be much more useful to talk about it. But I don't know if I've overheard, but the previous debaters didn't say much about it. Just the need to talk about it. But we'd be more effective if we actually talked. But not here on the plenary, but on the committees where each of us can propose concrete proposals. Where each of us can propose solutions for having a better business environment, for us to have better justice, for us to do something, for us to do something together and for us to improve together what we are all talking about here today. Let me conclude by saying that it is not as bad as the applicants want to show today. No, it's not, it's not. Here it would be right to say that we are not in the position we were in in 2009 before the crisis, when we were in this and this place, which was certainly better than today, but nevertheless it is not as devastating as some might wish to expose. But there is room for manoeuvre, and here is a field where we can actually talk about what we're going to do. Here we should say that there have been many things already done, both in justice and in the economic field, all of which, of course, contribute to making us better in the future. But we have to be aware of that. By snorting where we might be and where we're not going to be, we're not going to contribute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u55	The drafter of mags has the floor. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u56	Madam President, I had to respond to the last debate. It was mentioned that the opposition was doing nothing or that it had not proposed anything concrete. During this term of office, the Slovenian Democratic Party has proposed approximately 35 laws and acts, which the coalition has rejected for a period of one year. We have not only proposed in the field of the economy, we have also proposed in the field of youth employment, traineeships, banking systems and the judiciary, that is, all areas relating to the state apparatus. I think it's unfair and irresponsible to use those terms. This is how you deceive the public who listens to us at this very moment. Last but not least, you said that the committees were the place to discuss. I agree, so as a coalition, I ask you why, at least on the Committee on Finance in the last period, all the proposed laws tabled by the opposition are rejected before and before the debate. The coalition apparatus shall vote that this law is inappropriate for further consideration. Give this topic, which you have now opened, when to use at some of your coalition meetings or in your parliamentary group and point out to your fellow Members and colleagues that it would be possible to use what you have just said in practice. Why this debate? We have proposed to the President of the National Assembly that this debate, which we have today, be held when the budget was presented for 2016 and 2017, because at that moment this debate would be most appropriate, but our proposal was rejected by the President of the National Assembly. The main document showing the path and objectives of the Government of Mir Cerar is the draft budget for 2016 and 2017. These two documents clearly show that these budgets are neither targeted nor development-oriented. I still call on the Minister present to list the measures you have taken to improve the economic situation of Slovenia. List the salaries that you mentioned have increased. What sectors are they in? Tell us why you will turn temporary measures from ZUJF into permanent measures if everything is so good. In this debate we also tell what is good in Slovenia. In the area of economic performance, Slovenia acquired ten cities and ranked 42nd in comparison with the year before. Traditionally, Slovenia has been well integrated in the area of infrastructure. The most attractive properties of Slovenia include skilled labour, a highly educated level and an open and positive attitude. But the problem is where these international institutions assess that Slovenia is weak. The worst classification of Slovenia is achieved in all areas relating to government and state apparatus. There is a problem where opposition and coalition members should come together. It's up to you to propose marriage to the National Assembly. I am convinced that at least the Slovenian Democratic Party has tabled several proposals and acts as a functioning Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u57	Mr Boris Koprivnikar, Minister of Public Administration, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for these questions as well. First of all, the response to the measures of the HUJF. Firstly, measures from the so-called ZUJF are transposed into other laws and are regulated systematically and many are also leaving, so they are gradually decreasing. As far as salary increases are concerned. In the following year, we plan to increase the mass of public servants by 180 million. This is a very large number and in the coming years I am counting that we can plan further increases in the part where productivity will also allow it. As far as concrete action is concerned, I will speak more about that area of my own, because I think it is right that ministers from specific areas – as they have already done on many occasions – will tell themselves what has been done in other areas, let's say why a tourism organisation has been created, why the chain of undertakings has been hampered or why a number of other measures have been taken in the field of justice. From the area of public administration, we can say that we have set up a central information cloud that you do not want to hear about, but this is actually a reform in the field of state information technology, a radical reform that we are giving, technically, one of the best information bases in Europe next year. Because we are the first country to really have a completely independent, dedicated, as we call it, computer cloud. At the same time, of course, the regulation of data, the opening of data for the public, not least, the re-use of state data, which we are following intensively. The European Commission estimates this at over 4 billion additional opportunities for businesses. In the area of real property, we regulate the management of the real property of this country. We transferred a thousand 400 contracts this year into a single system. This is why a number of savings are planned or already being made, including a number of unused state buildings and border crossings in cooperation with local communities. This asset efficiency is increasing significantly. We're all talking about the inefficiency of the state, the state apparatus. We have a new service law ahead of us, which foresees a much more effective operation. I hope that this service law will succeed in bringing it into line with the social partners, so that it will also experience this support in Parliament, so that the whole operation of the state apparatus will be significantly more effective. Last but not least, by the end of this year we are expecting the first drafts of spatial and building legislation already in writing. Eliminating administrative barriers. Of course, we are all talking about the need to remove administrative obstacles until there is a concrete obstacle to which they must agree. But still, we have brought together over 240 measures in a single document. You can even see it on the website with the web application. Of this, about 140 were already realized, and new ones are coming. Of course, we struggle with every change in every rule, but we've actually unlocked 140 of them and they've been implemented. Is that reform? It's not. These are corrections, many minor corrections. In registering the company, we are not last in third place after the complexity of the procedures, since you can register a small company in one place, you will also get all the lists for all regulated activities from this year forward. So if you are an entrepreneur who will start doing something, you will have everything gathered in one place since this year. We haven't improved the rules, but then you don't come to the administrative unit where they send you for a new regulation or some new permission, because now it's all in one place. By the way, seven thousand pages of text is that one entrepreneur can suddenly get all the regulations that must be sufficient for them to successfully register the company. When we talk about structural reforms, I always think of them as a strategy. We have also written the Strategy for the Development of Public Administration, and I do not want to talk about it because it is a document. However, it has twelve objectives with a clear programme for realisation, which we also realize on time. But we have today in Slovenia, this analysis we have done, 140 national strategies. But we are not more successful because we have written 140 national strategies. We will be more successful if we actually implement these measures, which I am talking about, every day with hard work, and we are committed to this and we are actually working in this direction. While we are still talking about tax burdens, let us be honest that work is very burdensome with us, while we have an extremely low burden of capital. It is the task force for the restructuring of the tax debt that is working precisely in this direction, and you probably know that this group is very intensively preparing these adjustments to the tax system. Whether it will be a reform, I don't know, but adjustments that will reduce the workload and probably increase the capital burden a little bit, because the overall tax burden in this country is a slight under the European average. We are therefore perfectly comparable and can be competitive from this point of view. I wanted to tell you just a few specific things because I get the feeling that in some way we're constantly listening to the government do nothing, and that's all I know is that ministers and I personally and our teams have been working hard all day, and we're very carefully planning our actions. At the same time, I am pleased if we acknowledge or not that these measures are also starting to produce results in practice in improving the indicators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u59	The speaker has the floor, Mr Mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u60	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I see that you have resorted to rhetoric, which is also used abroad by the Minister of Finance Dr. Marble, who explained to the European Commission and others the reforms they had made, but in fact they were made during the government of Janez Janša, and part of the banking system was saved during the government of Alenka Bratušek. You're talking about the VEM project. The VEM project was therefore implemented during the first mandate of the Government of Janez Janša during the period 2004-2008. At that time, the Slovenian government also received the European Award for Improving Public Administration Processes, so you cannot take these credits now and put medals on your neck. The establishment of the company – Slovenia is in 15th place. There's no question. Access to electricity – 31st place. We're talking about the problems that should be discussed, and you don't want to. Effectiveness of the court in resolving disputes – 122nd place. No talking about it today, nothing. I don't know why Justice Minister Klemenčič isn't present. Why did they send you? Last but not least, if you really held this statement, which you said was the least taxed capital in Slovenia, then I think that multinationals would be suffering in Ljubljana. But multinationals, respected minister, are fleeing Slovenia, Slovenia is losing jobs, we are losing tax revenues.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u61	Mr Boris Koprivnikar, Minister of Public Administration, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u62	I don't even know if it's a replica or not, but anyway. This year we are preparing one very large-scale action to celebrate the ten-year VEM point. I fully agree that in 2008 it was established as a registration of espionage, in 2009 a prize was awarded for partoo and this year we added regulation for the first time. So this is a project that we are developing further through all governments. As for the multinational, let us be correct. HP closed its representation in Ljubljana or chose between Zagreb and Ljubljana – closed Ljubljana and kept Zagreb – and transferred the activity to an authorised company representing it around the world. With all six key multinationals in this country, we have excellent relations, and I hope to be able to report to you in a short time how these relations with large multinationals have also resulted in development opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u63	Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor. Get Mrs. Janja Slug ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! So today we are talking about where Slovenia is ranked as a country on the various international scales composed of respected organisations and institutions. But first, let us look at the situation in this country in the area of poverty. Some 290 thousand people live below the poverty risk threshold, most of them between pensioners and unemployed persons. 410 thousand people are at risk of social exclusion. A large number of people are those who do not even have a basic survival but are ashamed to ask for help. All this is due to the fact that the Government of Mira Cerar does not realize that the best social policy is the new jobs and the policy of decommissioning the economy. On the Commission for Petitions and for Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, we have addressed the problem of poverty several times, in recent years, with key actors in this area. I have also asked several questions to the competent ministers on my own several occasions, but in this debate I would like to draw attention in particular to Unicef's data, namely that about 15% of children are currently living in poverty in Slovenia and that the most vulnerable groups are households with unemployed members and dependent children. This is supposed to be about 75% according to UNICEF. Respected colleagues and colleagues, growing up in poverty also means some long-term consequences on several levels for these children and all those living in poverty. It is therefore necessary to ensure, of course, that various mechanisms begin to reduce poverty, that we are truly aware of this problem and that measures are put in place where as few people as possible will be exposed to social exclusion. The other indicators that we have already discussed today show nothing more promising, especially when we have a social and economic area ahead of us. The public debt now amounts to EUR 31 billion, in 2008, when the government of Janšev was in power, it amounted to EUR 8 billion. In the meantime, the government of Borut Pahor and the government of Alenka Bratušek took place. Today the government of Mira Cerar is the result here today because there are no measures because there was no proper planning. This is why we already have 31 billion euros in public debt. This means that we have spent excessively and irrationally on current consumption rather than investing in investments. In the future, as we can see, it will be no different. The budgets for 2016 and 2017, which are ahead of us, are completely non-investment. These are the key moments and problems that the Modern Centre Party should address because this is a problem for the future, because it is an issue for future generations, because it is important what we leave them, what country, what foundation we will establish, in particular in the area of economic and social policy. Otherwise, the international scales give us a very good picture of the state of respect for human rights, respect for the rule of law and respect for the economic system. All these international scales, which you claim to be irrelevant or to be interpreted in one way or another, also show how effective the government of Mira Cerar is at this time. It appears to be ineffective by most parameters. It is therefore right that we are also talking at this extraordinary meeting today about how the international institutions see us. That's why it's not a waste of time. It's a very important topic. On the economic freedom scale – my colleagues have already said this before, but it must be mentioned again – for example, in 2002 we ranked among 152 countries on, we can say solid, 58th place. What, though, is the situation today? In 2014, we landed at 105th place and in 2015 we landed at 111th place. The Doing Business scale, prepared by the World Bank, also shows quite alarming data for Slovenia. But as if that's none of your business, we shouldn't discuss it or the data is misinterpreted. The scale is mainly about how attractive a country is to foreign investment, how competitive it is. And on this scale, respected colleagues and colleagues, we found ourselves in the last place. Now we see how the foreign side sees us and what this means for our economy. The fact is that we should urgently make a reform of the health system. That's what the outsider's warning us about. We should do something to destabilize the economy once again, to create a supportive environment for economists. Finally, Slovenian economists themselves point out that if the government of Mir Cerar does not quickly take some key steps in this area, then we will only go further down. Of course, Slovenia also skates on the scales in the field of justice. We have had this debate several times in the National Assembly, but once again it must be said that in the area of the independence of the judiciary between 144 countries Slovenia is ranked 91st behind Iran and Montenegro. The judiciary in Slovenia also enjoys the lowest level of confidence of citizens and citizens. 73% of citizens and citizens do not trust in the Slovenian justice system. For this reason, we have also received the highest number of petitions on the Commission for Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities when we have done the analysis, from the field of justice, where people make it clear that no one is responsible for errors in judicial proceedings, even though we have certain provisions to sanction these matters. But it is interesting that between the countries of the European Union there is a country in which people have the most confidence, say, in the justice system, Finland. There is already an important element here when countries with a long-standing parliamentary and other democracy are at a significantly higher level of development. I think that years ago there was also an analysis of the values most appreciated by the Member States of the European Union, and most countries have, of course, put family values first, but it is important here to point out that, in particular, in Scandinavian countries, they have put politics in second place as the second largest value. Politics. With us, citizens and citizens have put politics last. What does that tell us? This tells us that policy works there as it must, that people realize that politics can be added to them, that it works for the common good. Unfortunately, in politics, we have not yet been able to create such an environment so that people can perceive politics in this way. The European Court of Human Rights has also recently issued a report – here we had a debate – which notes that between 1954 and 2014 Slovenia is the country that has most often violated human rights. Here, too, we are the leaders, we have the most judges per 100,000 inhabitants, but the lowest perpetuation. Slovenia also skates in the field of ethics and corruption. The last case that happened in a bad bank seems to be the case. On this, therefore, the corruption that is supposed to be taking place has been pointed out to the President of the Government by the suspension of Mr Nyberg. Of course, the President of the Government said that we need to know why Mr Nyberg was suspended because he was supposed to violate the rules. But in this government we have, say, a minister, I'm talking about Mr Klemenčič, who not only broke the rules, but broke the constitution, broke the laws, and nothing happens to him. The Lord is still in his place. In short, I support this debate, and I am sorry that the conclusions of the Committee on Justice on the subject have not been adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u65	Thank you. Mrs Janja Slug has the floor to prepare Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! Now the proponents have started to talk about poverty, about social exclusion, but let me remind you that you have not proposed a debate on this subject and have not proposed a debate on concrete measures. No! No! You have proposed a discussion on the Proposal for a Recommendation on the increasingly poor rankings of Slovenia on international scales. At least for the time being, it seems to me that we are still at this same meeting with this item on the agenda. As far as scales are concerned, there are a whole range of different international scales in the world and the rankings of our common country on these scales, as we have already found today, are different. The report Economic Freedom of the World 2015 is based on data from 2013 and even older. This scale, which you are quoting today, does not show the effectiveness of this government, but shows the effectiveness of all previous governments. There are many different indices on this scale and even within these indices Slovenia is very different. In one place, for example, it is listed immediately for Spain, again in the second on 28th and so on, that I will not repeat what has already been said today. There's always a thing in the methodology, in the applied criteria, in the formulas, in the calculations. Before using any data, it is very important to examine in detail the methodology of each scale and the data used on this scale. As we say, today we are talking about the 2013 data scale. The next argument we have already heard today is that the scales produced on the basis of statistics, some tangible data, and also those based on questionnaires for example, as well as such data, are a source for this scale. Not only are they subjective, but they are often very unrealistic. They depend on the individual’s perception, his perception, his personal circumstances, and so on. Such data are then incompatible with one another. Depending on the number of respondents, a special story is the complexity and complexity of the questionnaires themselves and could also be listed. The comparison of quantitative data from different countries is often very difficult and therefore special caution and sensitivity are needed. Many times these data are even incompatible with each other. Sometimes just one small change in how points are distributed on a scale like this can mean the country's difference of 30, 40 or 50 cities and the country is in the same condition. For example, the Doing Business report highlights how indicators should be used and how they should not be used. It also lists a number of cases of errors in this report when this same report has best ranked countries for a number of years, taking into account one criterion that they have found today — they also explicitly say — that it was a mistake. There is also a whole type of literature that deals with these charts and reports that points to these errors. Thus, such scales and reports have certain limitations. I think that, first of all, every report needs to be read correctly, then used correctly and, above all, used wisely. Take as warnings, recommendations, learn from them and take the right measures. But it is certainly not, as the proposalr does today, that the data should not be fully quoted, that it should be omitted from those who do not fit you, and that it should be linked to those who fit you, and interpreted in a way that corresponds to the purpose that you want to achieve at that time. In addition, I believe that economic efficiency alone is not the only measure of quality of life in a given country. Equality, health, education, culture and so on are important, not to mention. From today's proposal, I really wonder where the constructive opposition is. We listen all the time to the words how constructive your suggestions are, how you want to help this government, but state one scale and mark the classification of Slovenia as shameful for my concepts is not constructive. From this proposal today I can understand one and only purpose, and this is to show how this government is not doing, how it does nothing, and how what it does is bad. In addition, spend as much time as possible on governments and coalitions wasting time responding to proposals like these today. In any case, not all the credit for what is good may be attributed to another government, but on the contrary, it is the government’s fault for everything that is bad. If we have already been repeatedly challenged today, which measures we have taken so far, despite the fact that this government has done nothing, I may now go over these measures. To balance public finances – State-owned enterprise management strategy; for permanent fiscal consolidation – Fiscal rule law, both rebalancing; for the rehabilitation of the banking system – Banking Act, the creation of the Bank Resolution Fund, the recapitalisation of both state banks; for the simplification of tax procedures – the amendment of the Tax Procedure Act, the amendment of the Value Added Tax Act, the Treasury Act, the Tax Confirmation Act. In order to strengthen the social state – a package of measures to help the socially weak – these are debt cancellations, family debt resolution, the Enforcement and Insurance Act, which provides for the protection of social transfers and introduces a prepaid card, the introduction of deficit grants, the Social Agreement 2015-2016. For less bureaucracy and greater efficiency in the public sector – reorganisation of information technology in the state administration, establishment of the State computer cloud, renewal of the E-Government portal, for the first time in 2015 a general public health procurement, centralised management of property of the state with the amendment of the State Administration Act. Simplification of the administration in voluntary work – a novel of the Law on Volunteering. In order to strengthen the rule of law – effective prosecution of crime, new 30 prosecutors, the amendment of the Criminal Procedure Act and the amendment of the Penal Code, the establishment of a department concerning the confiscation of property of illegal origin. Faster settlement of disputes — new laws on the State Prosecutor’s Office, courts, judicial services and the Court Registry. To tighten the conditions for postponing penalties for health reasons – the amendment of the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions. Novela Law on free legal aid, introduction of the Judicial Supervisor, preparation of standards for systematic investigations of irregularities in the implementation of investment projects. For better public health – Resolution on the National Programme on Nutrition and Physical Activity for Health, the project eHealth, eRecept and eProcurement, the pilot project in the field of waiting periods and the Regulation on the Service of Emergency Medical Assistance in the Final Phase. In the area of quality infrastructure and environment – Transport Development Strategy in the Republic of Slovenia, the regulation of electronic tolling for freight vehicles by the Tolling Act, the opening of the Markovec tunnel, the completed bypass in Montenegro, the modernisation of the Divaca-Koper railway and the Slovenian Bistrica-Pragersko railway, the signing of the contract to start the part of Draženci-Gruškovje, the Action Plan for Energy Efficiency and the Action Plan for almost zero-energy buildings were adopted. We have new aviation connections Maribor-Prague-Warsaw, a single water management site with the Water Act, Action plans for flood intervention, National Housing Program. For economic development, I will not repeat what already stated by colleague Korenjak Kramarjev. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u67	Replica, mag. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u68	I have already made it very clear that we are awaiting serious structural reforms. We've been waiting for them for a year and a few months, as long as this government exists, but it's not from anywhere. The best proof that I was right is paradoxically exactly what a colleague who is now in the midst of these structural changes will not believe, you will also include some resolution and one bypass at a place and some other similar flowers that have "entered" inside, because of course she does not have anything to say. With all due respect and understanding of the problems in which you are, these are not structural reforms. Let's at least get this straight. Structural reforms are those that change the system by becoming more positive for entrepreneurship in the work I was talking about. These are moves that are interesting for a specific place or something, but they are not structural reforms. Let's at least get this straight. Because then we get to the second paradox – and this wonderfully confirms what I was talking about – when Mr. Minister, who unfortunately has already gone, pointed out as the greatest achievement of this government that this government is preparing to celebrate the 10th anniversary of something that Janšev's Government has done. Yes, great, thank you, congratulations, but by doing so, he said wonderfully which government was successful, because the current government is preparing a celebration of something that was done exactly by that government, which is being dragged into words all the time as a negative case. This is the moment of truth, because since then there's not much to show for it. When Janša’s government was once again, after one year of serious reform and when she made proposals, it immediately shot down and replaced her with another transitional left government, which brought Slovenia into total disaster. These are real things. That the current government, as the greatest achievement in this House, at the time of our consideration of the situation, would indicate that it would celebrate the 10th anniversary of the Janša government's achievement. Great, a confession, thank you, but people of God, that's not why you're here. You're here to do something. Structural changes, not beauty repairs, lichens and PR. That's the point of the story. But since no one is intruding, I will take this opportunity to correct myself one more mistake of my own, so that the SD's injustice would not have been done when I was told, as colleagues have warned me, that with that amendment of the law under the Pahor government, they increased spending by a million euros. I'm sorry, they've spent a billion euros, so we're in trouble right now not to think that they're as efficient or as Gorenjeks, so you can feel good. You've started a billion. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u69	Your time is up. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor to prepare Mr Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Vice President. We can't really have a serious substantive debate today. We cannot have it in particular because, if we want it, the proposaler should make a serious effort and prepare a formal and meaningful proposal for this meeting. I have to say that sometimes the SDS knew this, but now it's gotten worse, but it's gotten worse. This interpretation, that we have such bad indicators, that we are essentially pushing ourselves into a bottom-up that we really don't even know how to define anymore, except by saying that everything is bad and distasteful or that it would be best if tomorrow is what the elections are, in fact, an indication that either there is a serious crisis or there is a misplanned and planned today's PR event that simply didn't happen to them, because the Slovenes don't understand it very well. We talk a little bit about health care, a little bit about banks, a little bit about, I don't know what else. However, if we look at the material seriously, their leader of the parliamentary group is usually always referring to the form, seriousness and so on, we will see that there are six pages on the 14th side of justice, because they have little to add to it, so that at least it seems to be written because otherwise only so many things would have been written. But what is essential, of course, disappoints me that someone can say to himself what he said, and this is that these indicators are truly shameful. I think, the leader of the parliamentary group, that this material is really embarrassing for today's hearing. Really, it's embarrassing because he's not ready as he needs to be. But what's important is that one thing keeps repeating itself. Now I'm going to be exact because you love numbers and, of course, you keep putting them in your lab and fixing them, and then you put in everything that comes through by accident. Now I'm going to tell you what you're really doing, what you've been doing in the last year. The fact is that the opposition must and is right to exercise its supervisory function under the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. But only in the last year, this is in the 13 months, we have had the convening of six extraordinary meetings of the assembly, on this subject ten working bodies have met at emergency meetings, and also at six emergency meetings, where working bodies have considered material for an extraordinary meeting of the assembly. In addition, the SDS has requested four more urgent meetings with specific agenda items, but all the same goblin as we continue to repeat and deal with today. If that's productive, I don't know. And we didn't take any of this decision, it just doesn't go anywhere. This statement, which I have heard from my colleague Pogačnik, which, in principle, I very much appreciate that we would like to discuss here once, but not to go left and right, of course, will not hold because the numbers speak differently. It always ends the same way. Debate without conclusions, no proposals. Finally, I must say that I was most surprised that colleague Dobovšek signed such a victory. Why? I'll tell you. Because, as a professor in college, who has repeatedly pointed out to me that laws need to be introduced and processed quantitatively and qualitatively before and evaluated what is and what is not, I could know that it is not really appropriate to discuss this subject with such statistics. Unworthy, in particular, because in reality they show only the worst, but not the effects that are fine. It's also interesting because I don't really know why we're talking about 2015 when the numbers are talking about 2013 and 2014. This seems particularly important to me because they continue to boast about how much they had done, and in fact, the pointer went up only when John Janša withdrew from the government or was forced to withdraw because his government was failing. In fact, the new government began to turn the pointer up. Do people feel that? I don't know if they feel it, I'm sure they don't, but the fact is, if we go on with this trend, they'll feel it. Let me finish with the fact that, of course, it leads to the end. My dears, those Slovenians who think as badly of themselves as you think they are, as you wrote in this paper, give a very bad journey and conviction to everyone else. So we all want to look at ourselves just the wrong way. This is unproductive, destructive and good healthy constructive opposition does not do this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u71	Procedural proposal, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u72	Thank you, Madam President. I just suggest that you slowly read to Mr Möderndorfer the titles of all those 35 economic, banking and employment laws proposed by the SDS, which were well prepared and certainly in the vital interest of the State of Slovenia. Then give him an opportunity to apologize for his erroneous claims by the SDS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u73	The drafter of mags has the floor. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u74	Madam President, thank you for your word! As a proposal, I will say once again that the purpose of this meeting was to take place when the draft budget for 2016 and 2017 was presented, since it then has about a tail and a head. This is probably a question for the President of the National Assembly and the current coalition, why they did not allow it at the time. I agree, in principle, on certain matters that you have just discussed, colleague Möderndorfer, but also on the purpose of this meeting. On the other hand, the coalition needs to be asked once again why it did not vote on our recommendations on the parent committee, so that today we can have a more concrete debate and that these serious structural reforms in the area of justice, health, public procurement and labour legislation are recommended where they are needed. I believe that certain coalition MPs and Members may be in pain to discuss these issues, especially when the media say we have 16th most inefficient government in the world. I believe it is not in your interest to discuss this. Dear colleague Möderndorfer said that he disagreed or that it was embarrassing that the Slovenian Democratic Party had used the term shameful results. Dear colleague Möderndorfer, a large article with very large fonts on planet Siol.net says: "Shammish statistics: The number of human rights violations in Slovenia is increasing. Slovenia was sentenced three times in 2010 for human rights violations and 29 times last year." Is it not the greatest shame in one country that human rights are violated? Then let's say a statement about the result of corruption in Slovenia: 'Shammer for society'. Next: "This result is shameful both for those who do so and for the society in which this modus operandi seems to be," about the results of the research that showed the worst in relation to corruption by managers, I think, the Executive Director of the Sonja Šmuc Association. This means that others also use that word. I think the word is shameful when human rights are violated, the only proper expression.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u75	Mr Uroš Prikl has the floor to prepare Dr. Jasna Murgel. Replica, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr Pogačnik did not understand me and, of course, he misinterprets me. Since he mentioned the website [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Of course I have a chance to replicate, because he mentioned me three times. [[advertising from the hall]] Can you, Comrade Logar?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u77	Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, you're out of time. Mr Uroš Prikl has the floor to prepare Dr. Jasna Murgel.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! In principle, I support every democratic debate, and I do not oppose this debate either. However, after the discussion is over, I would like to conclude that every debate or conversation has some summary and some added value, but I am afraid that, after the end of this debate today, there is some added value you do not want, of course we will not find. When I listen to some debaters on the one hand, I feel that there is really no help for us, that there is really no help for this country. But when I listen to some of the debaters on the other hand, I have a feeling that honey and milk are lurking here, that this is a success story. One dose or one true measure of criticism must, of course, be here. Let us be aware that everything is not as it should be and that there is still a lot to be done in many areas, including those that you are referring to in the material itself. I cannot shake off the fact that the real picture here cannot be found, understood, because these analyses are based on different methods of data collection and analysis. It should also be noted that, according to the report of the 2015-2016 World Economic Forum, which was published this September, Slovenia has improved its classification in the area of independence of the judiciary and is now in 85th place. In the same breath, of course, I say that this is not nearly the achievement we want. It is likely that those who want the good or the best for this country would not be satisfied with either third or second place. We wish each other the best. I am also asked about the purpose of the applicants who use the 2013 and 2014 Justice Scoreboard, with data that are even older, i.e. data from 2011 and 2012, and only a partially more recent 2015 report, which contains data from 2013 and 2014. What I have just said means that the applicants call for an extraordinary meeting at this time on the basis of data on Slovenia from 2013 and the elderly. The review of the state of justice in recent years has also seen a number of debates in this National Assembly and several conclusions have been adopted, not least in May of this year, when a continuous and gradual improvement in the effectiveness of the judiciary has been identified. As regards the appearance of impartiality, it should be noted that on 11 June 2015 the Council of Justice adopted the Code of Judicial Ethics. In the context of changing the criteria for the quality of the work of judges and assessing the judicial service, one of the requirements is to take into account, in particular, the judge's responsibilities, reliability and prudence when assessing the personality characteristics of the judge, in particular, whether the judge acts in such a way as to protect independence, impartiality, reliability and integrity and the reputation of the court in the performance of the judicial service and beyond. Just a few more words about the economy, about the financial indicators. It must be acknowledged that in the years following the crisis Slovenia has indeed deteriorated its competitive position in export markets, measured by cost competitiveness and market shares, and not least by the world's most important indicators of global competitiveness and business simplicity. In view of current trends and favourable developments in key macroeconomic indicators, Slovenia's ratings in international financial markets are gradually improving, and progress has already been made on key competitiveness scales. This is also, of course, confirmation that Slovenia – or perhaps a little timid and for a lot too slowly – is on the right track, but again in the same breath it is necessary to realize that certain structural weaknesses still exist and need to be phased out. Progress is also recognised in the context of European economic governance procedures, where Slovenia received a Council recommendation in early May 2015 concerning Slovenia's national reform programme for 2015 and the Council's opinion on Slovenia's stability programme for 2015 as well. The document covers 4 areas or recommendations that are the middle part of it and relate to key areas of action. Firstly, the stabilisation of public finances, secondly, the improvement of the labour market situation, thirdly, the improvement of corporate performance in addition to the reduction in the volume of bad loans, and fourthly, the reform of justice. All four recommendations relate to the consistent implementation of the measures already taken and do not mention new problematic areas. In the area of structural measures, this government has implemented measures for the resolution of the banking system and the restructuring of the economy as a matter of priority. By adopting a fiscal rule, it has established the conditions for achieving long-term stability of public finances, an approach to laying the groundwork for changing the health system, I am not talking here on purpose about reform, and has begun to draw up a White Paper on the future and sustainability of the pension system or pension fund. On conclusion. We did not support the recommendations of our Member Group, the Desus Group, at the meeting of the parent committee. We do not believe that there is always a need to make new recommendations, as a number of decisions have already been adopted recommending to these or other bodies the adoption of measures to improve the situation, particularly in the field of justice and human rights. Various other acts, strategies, resolutions and other measures have also been adopted, and particularly those which are binding, such as legal recommendations or laws. The Government is preparing and implementing the measures called for by the proposal for recommendations, and I think it is essential to point out here. In our Group of Members, the Desus Group is therefore of the view that the new recommendations are not necessary. It should be noted that the classifications of Slovenia on international scales do not show how you use the term, shameful, catastrophic or any other measures you wish to take. On the contrary, many comparisons show that the situation is improving. However, when we conclude, we must not settle for a couple or for a few tens of places with better results, we must strive to become and remain the best. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u79	Dr. Jasna Murgel has the word. Get Mr. Ange Logar ready. First of all, the proponent of mags. Marko Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u80	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Just before, we were able to hear how the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Koprivnikar, mentioned how visible progress has been made in the area of electronic commerce and everything. Now we can just say on the Finance portal, we can read how the government portal went down, the government's site didn't work, the ministry's website didn't work. We know we've had problems with a supervisor who's been out of his post for three months. The promise was that the anti-corruption commission application would never be extinguished, but it is still not working today. And you say you have maintenance work, but here you speak VEM — all in one place, how good you are, what progress you have made. Let's take a look in the mirror and not the mirror just set up the opposition. We never, never claimed to be the best and never made any mistakes. But it seems to you that you haven't set up this mirror in the last year. Even after all the research or analysis of the period of one year of the Government of Mir Cerar, I think that no media, not one professional public and not even the general public have given you a higher score than enough, and this has probably been overlooked. I don't think you're going to get a midterm, all of which is my hope, the electorate and the electorate here. 16. The worst government in the world after efficiency, that was also one of the last issues. Not to mention health care, personnel problems, heart surgery. I think they'd probably lock someone up on a report like this abroad on the same day. But you don't have a response. Let's not talk about human rotations. Record government after the number of exchanges of the Ministry during the first three months. Why did you reject all our suggestions, recommendations? I've already said that this has become your system or your practice, to reject everything the opposition proposes. If you were what you say in public, that you are cooperative, that you expect the opposition to participate, then you would probably vote on the committee and perhaps draw up other conclusions and proposals for today's debate. But no, the easiest thing to say is that these numbers, which the opposition is referring to, do not hold, and are misinterpreted. I do not think that this is correct and that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia expect and deserve a better standard of living. Above all, it is shameful for Slovenia to have such a number of human rights violations. But here we can use the word shamefully. These words are not only used by the Slovenian Democratic Party, they were headlines in the media, which you can read for yourself. Above all, the economic situation is worrying. For it is necessary to realize that only the economy can bring social well-being, cultural well-being and that we will have a better system in public institutions, public education, health care and all. It is difficult to listen to the words of the coalition when it says that public health in Slovenia is the most accessible. Maybe at first sight, but when you see what kind of waiting lines there are, I'm sure it's not the most accessible public health care. About €800 million is paid from the pocket for health services in Slovenia. Why? Since we have the most affordable public health care, are people paying 800 million out of their pocket? We want a step further here. We offered you a hand, but you won't take it. Sooner or later, you will be there again when you need to weigh yourself, and I think that the electorates and voters will give their results and vote accordingly.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u81	Dr. Jasna Murgel has the word to prepare himself for the mag. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u82	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! With regard to that word, it is shameful, if I may only get involved, that it is already a legal and legal service, that this is not an appropriate term for the act of the National Assembly. Today we are talking all day about these scales, which are the content of the proposal by the proposers and the fact that it is all a matter of interpretation. Of course it is, because you have a scale, data, numbers to be interpreted. To interpret them, we need to get to know one thing first. I hope that you agree with this if you do not agree, but you have the right to have an opinion. Just in the illustration. We have already discussed the annual report of the European Court of Human Rights, where the figures are also listed, and which has been interpreted to mean that, as far as Slovenia is concerned, 94% of the complaints to the European Court of Human Rights are successful so that there is therefore a pervasive situation with regard to human rights violations in Slovenia. But if we turn the matter around differently and look at the data that is, of course, to be taken into account – and who would have better information than the State's Attorney's Office, which represents the country before the European Court of Human Rights – the European Court of Human Rights has received 8 thousand 412 complaints against Slovenia, which are essentially a complaint, not a complaint. Of this, 6 000 398 cases were rejected as inadmissible or otherwise, in fact, only in 323 cases. Complaints were rejected in 75% of cases. The infringement was therefore found in less than 4 % of the judgments and not in 94 %. This is just an example of how certain data from certain scales can be interpreted. Whether we don’t get to know much about a particular area or whether we are manipulating this information or that we want to organize it for our own purpose. I'm not saying that this is true as far as all the scales are concerned, but yes, the interpretation is everything. We have already talked about the fact that the data from 2013 and earlier are therefore obsolete. However, we have already said something today about justice, what are the data from 2014, as 2015 will then be collected next year. It seems important to me to say that in Slovenia, according to the European average, we are recorders, as far as the new cases received are concerned, let's say non-pecuniary, these are civil, economic, administrative, enforceable. For 100 people in Slovenia, the number of these cases received is three times higher than the average in the European Union. The expected time for resolving non-counsel cases decreased by 34 % between 2010 and 2014, which is the biggest decline in the European Union resolution period. It is important that the number of pending economic matters in the first stage has halved in less than three years. In 2012, there were 16,000 of them, and now there are some more than 8,000. If this isn't important progress, then I don't know what it is. I also personally know the field of enforcement. These also represent the most unresolved cases between cases dealt with by the courts. By the way, in most countries these enforcement cases do not even count as pending cases, they are not dealt with by the court at all, but this is again a matter of statistics. Over the last five years, the number of outstanding enforcement cases has halved from 250 000 to 130 000. That's important as far as I'm concerned, as someone who knows the judiciary. I'm sure my colleague Gorenak will remind me again that I'm infected and I don't know what I'm learning about because I've been doing these things, unlike my colleague Gorenak, who hasn't done these things. We're not saying or not saying that it is. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] It would be cultural, if we did not laugh, to show your attitude to Parliament and to the temple of democracy, as you call it. But when it comes to you, you probably have your rights, and the others obviously don't. One important issue that I think is very important in the field of justice is the measure to ensure greater uniformity of judicial practice. For example, on the Days of Slovenian Lawyers, judges themselves have warned about this. In addition to the many cases that need to be improved, there is no doubt about it at all, but the data speak, statistics speak if we measure everything with numbers, that the situation in the field of justice is improving significantly. Then the Justice Scoreboard scales, which is also referred to by the proposer, will certainly be better in the coming years, but now the data are collected for the following scales. We would like to discuss the issues that are the subject of these scales. If we want to discuss this, we would expect those who have signed this proposal to be at least present on the committee when the cases have been dealt with. I am referring to colleague Dobovška, who was on the committee where this case was dealt with, 15 or 20 minutes – correct me - and did not give any argument when they were also present from the Supreme Court and the ministries and other stakeholders. At a time when all these problems, claims — which no one claims to have been resolved — could be discussed in a reasoned manner. We come here, we say the position, and then we're not in the hall when we discuss such important matters. I agree that these are important matters. I would also agree with Mr Möderndorfer's assessment that colleague Dobovšek could help draw up this proposal, at least a little methodologically, and that he might also limit the matter to even know what we are talking about to focus a little on if he is already a co-signatory of this proposal. And in this case, we could perhaps discuss certain measures more in a more focused way. What are we doing today? We are discussing the scales instead of discussing, as colleague Ksenija said, concrete solutions to specific problems. On specific proposals of the law. Today we had a minister and a few secretaries of state who, in my opinion, could be elsewhere, and we would not be sitting here today talking about decisions that we rejected on the committee itself, where we are not talking about any concrete solution that we could vote on and accept a solution to the problem. We will therefore continue to discuss what the Government has done, we will discuss proposals for solutions that will contribute to the solutions that certainly exist, but are not as catastrophic as the proposaler tries to present. However, we did not support this proposal. We did not support him because he is too general and because the government is working to solve the problems we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u83	Thank you. The word has magic. Ange Logar. Let's get the mags ready. Bojan Kranjc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u84	Thank you. I don't always understand SMC. On the one hand, they talk about presenting data relating to 2014, 2013, 2012, 2011 and so on, a period which in some way has no connection with the SMC, but they do not want to discuss this document in any way, and they suppress how the document is poorly prepared because there are some substantive arguments missing and they talk about how we can explain a scale one way or another. The scales in this material are explained exactly as explained by those he published. Comrade Prikl had a relative substantive discussion if he was not cynical. For he said that he advocated every debate in which we finally come to some conclusions. How should we conclude in this debate if the coalition, in which Mr Prikl also sits, has rejected the Committee's conclusions? So you say no to the conclusions first, and then you say in plenary here that we're not going to take any conclusions today. It's first-class cynicism. This actually testifies to the fact that in some way you are aware of the bad results, but you do not want to discuss it because you want to live in some kind of virtual tomato. A fellow Servant read the measures that this government has already taken. In view of the level to which it has fallen, it seems to me that she has forgotten to mention three other important measures, and in this regard I will complete this picture of what the Government has done during this period. The Government of Mir Cerar also stopped writing magnetograms of government meetings, there was no more photoshooting at the beginning of the government meeting and there was also a showdown of lunch in the cafeteria. I think it's a fellow Servant who forgot to mention it. As for the government's response to our recommendations or to our material, however, State Secretary Tina Bricel said that these indicators and the scales that we proposed did not show the actual situation, because these scales could not show the actual situation, and then she said which scales could show the actual situation. Therefore, if some scales are bad for the judiciary, according to the State Secretary in the justice of these scales, they cannot be taken into account because they have a questionable basis, and then they propose some other scales that do not measure justice, but are in some way a little more positive that they should be taken into account. But this is the wrong spirit of this proposal. Our proposal was a substantive debate, not a competition about where we are going worst and where we are going best. Mr Pogačnik, the proposaler, listed the indicators, where he shows us well, so we have no reason not to mention them. But we even have a bunch of those indicators where we really cut ourselves off. In her position or in the position of the Group of Members, the Vice-President of Parliament said that Slovenia did not deserve to be compared with Venezuela. These comparisons are not made by the Slovenian Democratic Party; these comparisons are made by international scales which compare according to different factors. So if your argument is that Slovenia does not deserve this, as Vice-President of Parliament, I suggest you write to whoever proposed and placed Slovenia in such a circle. It's gonna be that creative job. There will be no reform, but there will be gradual change. And when you prepare these materials, be at least a little careful that there will not appear such a table as it is in this material, where you say that the multi-annual scoring of Slovenia, that is, from 2000-2015, according to the reports of Economic Freedom of the World is not so bad and that it shows only small movements in the number of points. From 2000 to 2015, we fell only by 0.14 points. But do you know how much that means in classification? From 70 to 111, that's for 41 cities. In 15 years, we have taken a minimum point step back, but we have turned enormously towards the other countries. You know why? Because we have done nothing because we have stepped on the ground because other countries have broken further in this interim period and Slovenia has shrunk. It has not adopted reforms, especially in the field of justice. Justice is the cancer of Slovenian society. Any theory of democratic development will tell you that democracy and the progress of the country are based on the rule of law. Without the rule of law, there is no way in the country to move forward. If you have a court or a court which, in the same case or on an identical request, decides in a different way – so if you file a case in Maribor, if you file an identical text in Ljubljana, or if you refuse or decide otherwise – then the legal state is on trial. Slovenia is then not a rule of law country and there is no reason to discuss bad classifications here. The purpose of today's debate is to talk about change measures. Dear Government, it will be difficult for me to listen to your argument that it is not so bad if you want to convince me with the next sentence that it is not as bad as we state. You say that the consumption of antidepressants is slightly below the EU average and the consumption of antibiotics is almost a third lower than in the EU 28. So it's really not that bad. That's what you wrote in the government file. This should convince me that the situation in Slovenia is significantly better than those scales show. As far as the World Economic Forum is concerned, we have already heard about some ugly capitalist scales here, where Slovenia should advocate that we are in as low a place as possible, not as high a place as possible. Those who spit through these documents spit through the Faculty of Economics and the Institute of Economic Research. These two institutions were, in addition to the questionnaire, the basis for the preparation of the World Economic Forum scale. Professor Peter Stanovnik said that since the last year, we have made 11 progress, but for three reasons. Firstly, the export growth of exporters, with the Mira Cerar government holding nothing, secondly, due to the economic growth resulting from external factors and thirdly, due to the reform of the labour market in 2012. Where's Mira Cerar? But when it was the inauguration of the new prime minister, I listened to SMC Members who said that Miro Cerar was a statesman, a visionary, a true moral-ethic superman. If you've presented it to me like this, isn't it normal for us to expect that after one year in Slovenia it will really flourish? But there's no such thing as a bloom. The fact is, young people and intelligence are leaving Slovenia. Those of you talking about ugly America, when you think she fell on a scale, you forget that America doesn't have that problem. Every year, four times as many people move in there as they do. Given the percentage of those leaving the country, we are Slovenians in a 6 times worse position, 6 times more of our intelligence leaves Slovenia than in the case of the United States. We discussed earlier the success of this government and the problems we are not supposed to talk about. I'm going to read you a statement from someone saying, "We have a big problem with the judiciary system, including confidence in the government. These are areas where, with structural improvements, we actually have to prove to the citizens that we can be better." I am interested in how this is different from those proposals in the conclusions that serious structural reforms and judicial reform and greater transparency in the work of the judiciary should be introduced. This is in our conclusions. So someone says we have a major problem with the system of justice. This is published on the official website of the Ministry of Public Administration and these are the words of the Minister of Public Administration. That's not what the opposition said. The Minister of Public Administration said that we have a problem with the judiciary, and we say we are proposing to the Government to examine and propose measures for greater transparency of the judiciary. And you accept the minister, but you don't accept the opposition proposals. Somebody tell me how this government can have such double standards. Once again, a well-respected coalition, you have missed the purpose of this debate. It was well-intentioned and intended only to come up with concrete measures which, unfortunately, had not yet been prepared by this government after one year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u85	The word has magic. Bojan Krajnc. Prepare Dr. Vinko Gorenak and Mr. Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! In some ways, it is difficult to discuss such rhetoric from a colleague of Logar. In my debate, however, I will try to show that both he and the SDS and the proposer have been wrong since this proposal was discussed for the Justice Committee. My colleague Logar said that the scales were explained exactly as explained by those who wrote them. Of course it doesn't. If you look at their proposal, you will immediately find from the first table on page 2 that they did not write down what was written by the person preparing the report. To help us all understand, I will read in a translation from the Visio Institute website: "As data are published in certain countries with a long delay, the report The Economic Freedom of the World measures at a two-year delay. This year's report shows the situation in 2013." All of this is not in the SDS proposal. Moreover, on the Committee on Justice it took us two hours to try to tell the SDS colleagues in particular, what this means is the title of the 2015 report, but the data was collected in 2013, and therefore the interpretation of these results is a condition that ruled in 2013. I agree with my colleague Möderndorfer, who spoke of the document being poorly prepared. Why? Not because of this fact, because you forgot to write that the data was from 2013, but because you tried to draw criticism from the government of Mir Cerar. On the way between the committee and the meeting of the National Assembly, you have, of course, found that this will not work, so as we get closer to the end of the debate, we are always more faced with a kind of ridicule, low-day personal discredit that has nothing to do with content. You're trying to be meaningful yourself, and you're failing. In his opening statement, Kolga Pogačnik said that when the first Janšev government ended its mandate in 2008, Slovenia was on the 32nd stage of the Swiss Institute of IMD. In order to understand how well SDS can manipulate not to use any other word, Pogačnik, of course, forgot to mention that in 2013, when the second Janša government ended its mandate, it was 52nd. That means she fell for 20 places. Now all we have to do is discuss how many governments carry in the coming term. We have not heard any substantive debate on this. Once you want Janša's government's mandate to end exactly when the next government comes along, and secondly, you want to take your actions through the government of Alenka Bratušek to the government of Mir Cerar. Please, if you are continuing your debate, you are trying to explain to us how this is going to work. The co-proposer, Comrade Dobovšek, spoke of consumption falling, production declining. Both on hold. Consumption, private consumption, increased by 1.8% in the second quarter of 2015, of which 5.5% were equipment and machinery, as investment consumption on the other hand decreased, the total domestic consumption increased by 1%. Production, if this meant gross domestic product, of course it is not shrinking, but is increasing. For the second quarter of 2015 it is 2.6%. But most of all, it's kind of a symptomatic discussion by Comrade Dobovška in the new parliamentary group, where he touches on almost every discussion of some conspiracy theories that says, "Nobles is collecting data for the government." We are talking about the statistics collected by the Statistical Office and this Statistical Office is supposed to be a noble for colleague Dobovška. My colleague Horvat says that we are looking at the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, who does not believe him, but must vote in favour of his removal. All of this I want to show you that these ad hoc proponents who have gathered only to criticise the work of the Government of Mir Cerar without arguments and with manipulated data in the tables. They come even as far as Branko Grims, who says that in fact sums up the essence of the debate, the essence of the story that this government does nothing, but not the scales, the fall, the climb, the arguments, find that all that we are experiencing today is the result of the government's work in the shadows. I think it is clear to everyone that this is not the case and that the government of Mira Cerar is, of course, working. She did everything my colleague, Root Kramar and Servant said. Fellow Logar doesn't like reading exercises, so I won't read it myself at this point, but of course citizens and citizens can also look at the government's website, what has been done in one year. And in connection with what has been done, I repeat once again what my colleague Koprivnikar has already said about structural reforms. If anyone expects structural reforms only to be carried out with some big bang, with a revolution, he must also be told that structural reforms can be implemented gradually. Each structure has some structural elements, and if we change them, the whole structure will change over time, or just some part of it, and this will have an impact on some other structures or structural elements that are linked to them. Regardless of all, what the Government of Mira Cerar has done at this time is the start and continuation of some of the structural reforms that the previous governments have debated, started and continued. There's something in every government that's good for the next, and something that's best left to forget. This government will not be treated differently, so I reiterate my call for you to improve your bill proposals so that we will not have to reject them without discussion because they are so bad, and we will be able to adopt together something such as a fiscal rule, which unfortunately you have not been able to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u87	Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My friend would say that Mr. Krajnc was sitting in his ears. I've tried so hard to say that this session is not an attack on the government, not you, colleagues and colleagues from the coalition. Comrade Kranjc, there's something you need to listen to. I just wanted to see if in this discussion we could unify ourselves around the axiom. Axiom is a fundamental truth or principle that does not need proof, and this axiom says that change is the only constant. If you were in a good company, you had to take that into account, otherwise the hell took you. That's all I wanted to do was to unify ourselves, in change, if the word reform causes allergies. That, colleagues and colleagues, changes are the only constant. Colleague Slug forgot to mention: 5 years for building permit, 9 years for municipal spatial plan. Those from the SD who attacked France and Germany should also read that Slovenian exports to Germany this year represented 21 % of total exports in the first seven months and increased by 5.2% according to the same period last year. This gentleman from SD, the former minister, attacks Germany, is working an international incident. Do you imagine what Slovenian exporters imagine today?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u89	The text shall be by the representative of the proposer of the magi. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u90	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Comrade Krajnc, if anyone attacks today, it's a whole coalition. At the beginning of this extraordinary meeting, we have proposed that we go to a debate that will benefit Slovenia, which will benefit from raising the standards of all people and people of the Republic of Slovenia, who will benefit entrepreneurship and entrepreneurs in particular. But it's none of that. You are talking about some structural reforms that need to be adopted slowly. You have sent key documents to the National Assembly of your Government, the 2016 budget and the 2017 budget. From this budget, respected colleagues and colleagues, I do not see any structural reforms. In 2017, it will be one year before the elections if there are no early elections. This means that you are preparing a document by the end of your term of office and that nothing is seen. I believe that in 1 year you can't prepare something as it is, but at least some levers, but some foundations could begin to prepare. Here the opposition is concerned that you are doing nothing, that you have decided to sail in some wind, given to you by exporters, which gives you the environment of Europe that is growing, but the question is what will happen with economic growth continue. You have referred many times to the fact that the data are from 2013 and 2014 but not one of these documents, even though the data is old, you have not yet been able to prepare. Now we would improve these results from 2013 and 2014.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u91	Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word. Prepare Mr Marijan Pojbič and Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u92	Thank you very much. The more I listen to this debate, the more a person would wish he had not listened to some. Especially for a basic reason, because I feel like they're also going to ruin their own image a little when they're talking nonsense. No one had any intention of saying that SMC was responsible for the deterioration on the scales. If anyone understood it that way, he misunderstood. But the fact is that the situation is getting worse in the areas mentioned in this document. Another fact is that 13 months have passed. Serious things and reforms are being done in the first year and there is a second year, and not anymore. If we keep going like this, then we'll be back before the elections without doing anything. And here's the responsibility of the first party. All the documents and all the figures in the proposal for today's document for today's meeting have been made by foreign institutions. But foreign institutions aren't Niko Toš and they're not an institution for public opinion, they're for measuring things. But those institutions are not affected by the Slovenian political left, which is the problem. But the numbers have to be admitted. They're what they are. And there's no problem. So we warn ourselves with this document – and we do not blame the SMC for being clear – that we fall on all the scales in the order mentioned here. On the other hand, there's something else to say. Let's be realistic. Where were the Czechs in 1990 after the GDP? Where were the Hungarians back then, the Slovaks? Somewhere far, far, far behind us. Today, in 2015, we were overtaken by some. In general, the government is responsible in this situation and is responsible for governments, which were left about 75 to 80 % of the time and right 20% of the time. So, if I end this at this level, then I can say that Slovenian political lefts are responsible for capping Slovenia for other developed countries. At least 80% so we're clear. There was a whole bunch of talk about justice. I wouldn't repeat these numbers, I've told them a hundred times behind this pay phone. Where are we good with justice? Where? Nowhere. Nowhere, compared to Europe. But it is true that I find it difficult to accept what Mrs Murglov has already said that I will object. Of course, I find it difficult to accept, you understand that they explain to me how the situation in Slovenian justice is good, those people who were employed there came on a trip to politics and, of course, return there. But their interest — no matter who it is — can be in any other area, it is quite clear — is to defend the privileges of the ministry they have been in and where they will go. That's perfectly clear. Where could the Secretary of State, Mrs Murglov or Mr Klemenčič – well, at least – have an interest in making changes in the judiciary? Why, because who spits in their pocket? That's a little fucked up. That's why you're amazing when you talk about it. If Mr Ferruga, who had nothing to do with this and would probably never be a judge, would I accept it more easily than if you were speaking to go where you came from, and that is not right. You've never heard me praise the police for all the weights you've never heard of me. However, it should be added that, for example, these violently erased companies from 1999 will likely have a significant impact on all these scales soon after the European Court of Human Rights judgment. Probably a big influence. That's the least I can say. Mr. Secretary has been talking about reforms. The government has good tactics, actually, because it sends him here who talks like he sometimes does at farmers or at home, so it's like a "broken doc", but he says nothing. At least in public you give a good impression of how much you talk and how smart you are. If this minister is serious about what he was saying, if he really thinks that the situation in the field of justice is improving due to the reforms adopted by Mr Klemenčič, then he is ridiculous. Then it's his cloud because he likes clouds. What reforms have been adopted in the field of justice in this mandate? Nothing was taken, nothing. The decorations were made. The Ethics Commission, the Commissions for I don't know what's in the Prosecutor's Office, in the Council of Justice, in the courts and so on, this has been adopted. By the way, you wrote that there would be no costs, but the Council of Justice said that the implementation of the Ethics Commission requires 24 000 euros of new money. That's what the Council of Justice said we were on the clear side. In short, there were no judicial reforms. But it is true that his predecessor, Mr Plitchanic, spoke of them in two governments, including ours, who did nothing. Now this minister speaks again, and if we move on like this, these reforms will not be, it is a clear matter because the judiciary protects itself. By the way, even with these latest things, where I read that the Council of Justice is already or will only be proposing to the President of Republic 4 candidates for our member in the European Court of Human Rights, all Slovenians are, of course, excellent, first, second, third place. What about the one who has two PhDs out there, not in Slovenia, and who teaches at Harvard? That one's in the last place. Of course, because he will not protect the privileges of Slovenian judges. Thus it is pointless to talk about any reform in the judiciary, which has not been done and so far I don't know if it will be done because we have the situation we have. Someone interpreted the polls that Slovenia is the first after transport safety in Europe. Let's be a little serious when you're interpreting, or tell us where it says it. Slovenians, all citizens, we know it doesn't count. Someone also talked about the fact that this government has stabilised the political space. Bravo. Of course, they went down from the streets, they were no longer on the streets, because they demanded beautiful and new faces and changes, one came to Parliament, and now they don't go to chess, right across from me. Stabilised political space, for example, gave way again to many schoolchildren and gave in to many things. That's right. This way to stabilize political space is fine. That's what Pahor's government did. Do you remember? For one billion, she raised the cost by collecting less taxes. This is no way to say that the political space is stabilizing. That's the thing I want to report, but that's the next thing. The numbers listed in this document are correct, or deny them to these international institutes. It is logical that the numbers refer to a period of retroactive time. It is perfectly logical to refer to this period backwards, as they always apply. How else would you be? Although then it has a newer date, but the numbers are collected earlier, and it's not your fault. We can't say it's your fault, this government, because after all, you're not in power for 20 years. But it's a left-wing political option. And you're joining because you're not acting. Where's the pension reform? She's not here. Where's medical? She's not here. And something else. We have been in power for 13 months, and we have carried out two major reforms that bring many things up today, pension and work. One year's pension and work. You're not one yet. I don't want to talk too much about my colleagues moving on. Mrs. Murgel, you're saying that the Law and Law Service has also disputed the word 'disgusting'. Of course, you admit it, don't you? Why didn't you admit to law enforcement when she said Janez Janša couldn't get a mandate? And you didn't admit to that. To conclude, he would not be here because he is not here, but look, Mr Weber has made a wonderful exposition that could also have given him the address Janez Janša is guilty of everything, and he has reported it as a doctorate to Dr Mencinger. I believe he'll also be a doctor for stupidity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u93	Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor to prepare Mr Jože Tanko and the mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I would, of course, like to hear from the SMC how it can explain the claim that the Slovenian Democratic Party can manipulate it in the context of this debate today. I would like an explicit, concrete answer to what the gentleman who discussed before said. Mr President, when we talk about these scales, in my opinion, the Slovenian Democratic Party and, I am sure, everyone sitting here in Parliament is certainly due to events and situations in this country. I don't think there's anyone who could object. There's no one who can deny it. We have facts if I start with facts. Today it has been said that everything in this country is oh and, in general, and so on, I have listened constantly to how well this country works in this society under the guidance of this current government and so on. Of course, I wonder why we have a third or more than a third of the employees on minimum wage. I wonder. Why do we have most of the small and medium-sized entrepreneurs on the verge of paying ability? I also wonder why we have more poverty every day in our society. I also wonder when I am talking about the judicial branch of power, why we have so many judicial excesses, political judgments, violations of human rights. Why do 12, 13, 14 years of bankruptcy last? Right now, I had one case where the bankruptcy lasted 14 years and the regress paid to the person was worth 20 euros. However, for 14 years the bankruptcy lasted. That's more than all the extras. And then the judicial branch of power is talking about some credibility, so please. And don't be a fool from the Slovenian people, from the people. Please. I have at home evidence, documents that I'll show if necessary. I have little time I am sure that this debate that we have proposed to the National Assembly in the Slovenian Democratic Party is truly well-intentioned, we have no intention of offending anyone, we have no intention of condemning anyone, but we have had a clear intention that on the basis of all that is needed from these charts to understand, in the full field of functioning of the State, we must find better solutions. [[..]] This is what is important right now, and this is in the hands of the government of Mir Cerar and as the leading party of the SMC. Very briefly, just two more things. Remember what Mr. Lars Nyberg wrote in the letter he sent to Mir Cerar. I'll just read the closing paragraph. "In the case of Sava, judging by what I have seen and read, I smell corruption in every corner. Is this really what you thought when you were talking about fighting corruption? Is this really the direction you want to lead Slovenia?" Here I ask respected colleagues from the SMC to answer this question whether it is true what is written here and how they will act. They have already demonstrated how the government acted, where SMC is the largest government party. Another comment written today by Dr. Žiga Turk on this was presented by Mr Nyberg after he was replaced. "Never has so few words from a man who came so far to the Slovenes set up such a sharp mirror. After the events at DUTB, it should be clear to everyone, regardless of political conviction as to what is happening in Slovenia – who has real power, who can influence the media, how harmful this is for ordinary citizens." With this only thought, I wanted to conclude that we can ask ourselves where we are and whether it is justified for us to put into debate in the Slovenian Democratic Party in such a way that we can come up with some concrete, real, honest conclusions that will go for the benefit of citizens and citizens of Slovenia, not individual features that live as small gods in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u95	Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. Get ready, mags. Andrej Shircelj and a representative of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that. Maybe there's only one procedural explanation in the introduction. Here one of the debates from the SMC Group said that there was a place for debate on the Committees of the National Assembly, but not at the meeting of the National Assembly, so that as many people could be involved in the debate as possible. However, every time we have introduced any law after a normal or regular procedure in this part, you have already done so by voting that the law is not suitable for further consideration. These laws were not small, you can review them, formerly colleague Pogačnik said something about them, and by rejecting the general debate at first reading, you prevented quality, detailed treatment at the competent or parental committee of the National Assembly. The fact that one of the Members declares such a claim and votes as I have said, means complete misappropriation and total discreditation for the general public as well. Especially the one who said it and the parties who did it. The next time we re- table a law following a regular procedure, request a general discussion, discuss objectives and observations, support the debate on the law and bring it to the National Assembly for a second reading. Then there you can detail, table amendments, improve the text and so on. Until you do so, however, it is pointless to go to the proposer or to the Slovenian Democratic Party in this way. Second thing. Keep talking about what makes sense and what we'd rather discuss. You are discussing or discussing what we are putting into the legislative process. The coalition is terribly small, so far one marriage, this is the Holiday Act on October 30 or 31st or whatever it was. This was the only law you ever filed by members of the coalition. We've passed a lot of laws, 35 acts, one you've supported, and the rest you've rejected. Even so, you are going so far that, when we propose a debate on individual substantive matters, you are not even in a position to support any recommendation that the Government or the other person concerned, at least examine, examine, check, propose, improve and so on. This term of office in this national assembly shall be prohibited from voting on a proposal for a decision in this manner. Interesting, not even a recommendation that basically means some guidance that the Government then takes into account or disregards. You're not even in a position to vote because it's paradoxical. The next one, which today quite adorned myself with my littleness and my signature under the preparation of this material, is Mr Möderndorfer. He's been discussing my little thing for almost five minutes. But Janie Möderndorfer has no use in doing business, because whatever they gave him politically, he collapsed, let it be Zoran Janković, let it be Positive Slovenia, let it be the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek. The key actor in all these stories of political destruction that took place in the National Assembly is Jani Möderndorfer. Now he teaches about political culture, about the quality of our work, about the regularity of procedures, and I don't know what. That's not serious. I hope that he will never have to be answered that way again. Now, here's a little something about the work we've done. First of all, we didn't do any of the things or any of the tables ourselves. These are all tables made by international institutions. If these international institutions present such a problem to the Government of Mira Cerar, then I do not understand why government representatives in Davos go to the meeting of the World Economic Forum and listen there, perhaps even talk, talk and so on if the data of this forum are so valuable. I do not know why you are involved in the recruitment of the European Court of Human Rights if their reports are as worthless as Mrs Bricelj, Secretary of State, said. It's all numbered, analysis, data, long-term projection, everything. There's no need for interpretation. We are the first in the Balkans to deal with human rights violations. We are the first in Europe in terms of human rights violations, not just in the Balkans. There's nothing to add to that. With regard to this slide of Slovenia after all these international comparisons, Pogačnik counted some of them, but in fact it is quite significant. During the period 2004-2008, when there was some kind of economic boom, when economic growth was, in fact, the whole world economy, there was almost no country having problems with economic growth, we were twice as good after economic growth as Germany or other comparable countries. For 3 percentage points, we were ahead of economic growth in comparable countries. The result of this growth was that from 84% of the EU average, by purchasing power, we reached 91% of the EU average by purchasing power. So after four years or one term, we came to 91%. When the global economic crisis occurred, it happened all over the world, not only in Slovenia. It didn't just happen in Slovenia. This hit all countries: Baltic, Poland, Czech Republic, Germany, France, America and so on. There was no country that didn't make it. The difference between these countries was in response to what happened. Germany has taken measures and aid for economic measures to facilitate the economy, France, all other countries, and our then Prime Minister, Mr Pahor, has said here that we will wait for the French-German train. In other words, we won't do anything. The synonym for waiting on the French-German train is that we won't do anything and we didn't do anything. It took three years. The fact that Slovenia started to skate on these scales, losing the comparative advantages it came with in 2008 is due to precisely this, that is to say, waiting for the French-German train. Now, ladies and gentlemen, it's happening exactly the same. We're waiting. We're waiting for something to happen to us. Economic growth has drawn us, German and others, because exports have grown, but it is not thanks to any measure of this government, but it is thanks to the economy, which in this case has somehow adapted and succeeded with products and other things. None of the measures, respected by the coalition colleagues, contributed to this economic growth. I am that there will be no mistake in sending a question to the Government on 11 June – this was, according to Mr Marble's statements at the International Monetary Fund and the meeting of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank in Washington – to write down to me what measures the Government has taken since September 2014 to encourage exports. Second question. With what administrative, tax, spatial and other measures has the Government improved its domestic business environment since September 2014? I'll read you what the answer was. As regards the question related to export incentive measures, there was no answer. On the question of administrative measures, however, the Government has written three concrete measures, namely the introduction of a linked account book, the regulation of electronic service of tax documents and the effective implementation of the FACTA Agreement and, as regards VAT, the transposition of the Directive. These were measures to promote the economy. In addition, it stated in its reply that the authorities were in charge of drawing up more detailed action plans for those measures that were not implemented this year. The Ministry then implements the SME test project, which provides an assessment of the impact of the regulations on the economy. The MJU shall prepare a list of the entry conditions for carrying out the activities. Finally, the country also contributes by providing good information and implementing e-procedures. That's what they wrote in the government's response. Before that, Mr Koprivnikar spoke about how they debirocratized certain things. Respectable, nothing, there is not one measure of this government that we can boast of. Also, when you ask about the employment area when this fall occurred, there is not one effective measure. What has helped to improve imagery or reduce unemployment is the removal of personnel. This is a key measure that has taken place, or a key event that has taken place. It wasn't even a measure. The only reform measure proposed by the Government or the Minister of Justice was a project on systematic investigations into major investments that was stopped in the National Assembly because it is a completely unconstitutional project. It was the only bigger thing. In the area of justice, the introduction of those recommendations by Greece into legislation cannot constitute any reform. Nowhere in the world has this been legalized in the world, we are the only country that has enacted Greek recommendations that are not being implemented. Nor does the applicant respect them, because if the proposed Greek recommendation had been respected, he would not have run for minister or accepted the nominations, invited the minister, because there were so many violations of the legislative laws found by the Court of Auditors, and cancelled proceedings at the Supreme Court or any other in the Constitutional Court, that it was not possible for someone to take over such a business and carry out such a task, teaching everyone else. As far as these scales are concerned, it's only a question of what that means. If Slovenia holds comparatively in some area on a scale, it is only a question of whether this improves Slovenia's rating or falls. We are more satisfied with this when we fall in terms of such and different efficiency, business, court and so on, whether we enjoy it or not. In our parliamentary group, we are not thrilled that Slovenia is losing its comparative advantages, that it is climbing the scales. Nor are we satisfied that Slovenia is falling on the FIFA scale, because this means that your rating has fallen and that you are retreating somewhere, not to the bottom, towards the periphery. Here the same is true and the question is what will the government put forward to put an end to these trends. We need some systemic measures, solutions with which we can help ourselves, where we say, this is a measure that will improve this situation, allow this and that, which we have moved to this and this area. Nothing so far, this year, and something else since this government, we haven't gotten to the table. And if this goes on, with such a attitude towards debates in the National Assembly, it is unlikely that this is what is expected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u97	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate in which a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer are given the floor. First, the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Mrs Tina Brecelj, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I have to be purely exact here. I have never said that the reports of the European Court of Human Rights are worthless. I've never said that. What I'm saying right now is a magnetogram. I said, however, that there is little value in interpreting some NGOs that summarize the official statistics of the European Court of Justice. So much for an explanation. Another time. All that has been said today could be referred to in two words as truly judicata. We've talked about all this, looked at things from different perspectives, came to conclusions, no new facts, no new findings today. As Mr Logar had said before, I think he mentioned a student sitting in his ears, or somehow pointing out this case, so could I. The student sitting in his ears is carrying the consequences for this, the teacher does not explain the material to him over and over again, so I don't think it's necessary for the things we've already said to him, to present, to illustrate, to illustrate, to show, to show, to explain, to briefly, to talk about. It repeats from this direction, if I may say so, one and the same. I hope to say that even if you raise your voice somehow, you will not hear your echo from these benches. As it is said, because the facts, numbers and what has been said speak differently.I would also like to explain what has been mentioned and have not yet spoken about it in previous sessions, but I am today, so on the classification of Rule of Law Index. I think that Mr Logar has somehow also pointed out that, as far as justice is concerned, I have actually commented on classifications that do not speak of justice, i.e. with purely other scales. Here I have to object and explain that in my introductory debate I mentioned Rule of Law Index – we all know what this means – and I said that here Slovenia is ranked 28th and then further explained where our classifications are when we talk about criminal, civil justice and the category of fundamental rights. That's it. What else should be highlighted in the end? Perhaps something about this latest implementation by Mr Tank. The SID security reserves increased Mira Cerar's government by 30 million. It has also increased the potential for export insurance by 500 million. So here are some things that have never been spoken of before. If I return to the fact that we were talking today about things that we had already run circles and explained things to each other in one way or another, I find that the content of the debate, which should have been commented on, was, in fact, less than that, the government has apparently declared too much time for its debate today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u99	The text shall be delivered by a representative of the proposer, Mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u100	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I personally believe that arrogance does not go far. But where arrogance comes from, let others decide, but, Madam Secretary of State, I think this last performance of yours was pretty arrogant, what was being debated, what wasn't. Respectfully, I do not think that the National Assembly has yet discussed mainly micro and macro economic effects and scales that speak substantively about economic indicators in Slovenia. I am sure and I know that human rights have been discussed, and it is important that we do today, because human rights are probably one of the most important. And finally, what the state can afford is a violation of human rights. Never, at least without knowing it, have we, in the National Assembly or at a plenary session discussed the withdrawal of foreign multinationals, that Slovenia has the 16th least effective government in the world, that Slovenia has been falling under all economic criteria on all European scales since 2008. You're lucky I've only got seven minutes left, I see you're looking up there, because you want me to finish this debate as soon as possible. I would also ask myself about the arrogance of the government and the coalition partners, but especially you, President of the National Assembly. We proposed that this point of discussion, together with the presentation of the 2016 and 2017 budget, should have all one tail and head. However, you did not wish to convene this extraordinary meeting on the same day as the presentation. For this has one tail and head, this is your key document of the government of Mira Cerar, where the direction will be seen. The budget for 2016 and 2017 is not developed and is not targeted. At that time, we could talk more about indicators and everything that is being prepared and about what. Finally, we made proposals, made recommendations, as a coalition you rejected them. They could be adopted on the parental committee and they could propose different conclusions at today's meeting. But, respectable coalition, let's pour ourselves some pure wine. We are not taking reforms and measures because of Brussels, but because of the European Commission. Until we are aware in this National Assembly that measures and reforms are needed because of us, because of Slovenia, because we want to live a better life, without human rights violations, with higher wages and with higher purchasing power, but not every day to read how certain transition countries of Eastern Europe are approaching Slovenia when we can once set an example for them. With Slovenia's independence, Slovenia was said to be a bridge between Western Europe and the South-East Balkans. What's going on today? Croatian companies take over Slovenian companies and you are mainly involved in the recruitment of ministers, do not separate what is corruption and what is not, international institutions are calling you to certain things. All these reforms are also proposed by research and recognised international institutions. And we've also heard from the coalition that these are the scienceless institutions and that we're throwing fog at certain things. That's not true. But I would really like to see once, as it did at the beginning, according to the positions of the parliamentary groups, from my point of view, the proposal that we go not only in the direction of accusations and interpretations, or the number 23 corresponds to or is more appropriate in number 5, whether this scale is appropriate or more appropriate in any other interpretation or other study. I was expecting this today – also the proposal was made on my part, and also on the part of the SD Group of Members – that we will have a concrete discussion. I have not heard from a single MP or a member of the government coalition that they are preparing a reform for this and that area, they are preparing an action in the field of economy, entrepreneurship. No, no, no. But as usual, a day or two ago has prepared an article to read, and you have done so. Regardless of the content that was spoken of here today, or when we made a call. We force you into some cooperation, we can't take action. But we're sorry about Slovenia. We don't want anything but to start talking about things that are absolutely necessary. The same case was the banking system. In the SDS we began to warn about the rehabilitation and need for the resolution of the banking system already in 2009, 2010. If the banking system were to be rehabilitated at that time, I am sure that at the end of 2013 we would not have invested EUR 5 billion, but this could have been for a billion or two less. But no. Instead of investing a billion or two in public education, in public health. No, no, no. You don't let go, you go your way forward. Okay. But you'll have to take responsibility for that.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u101	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure. If one of the representatives of the proposer of the recommendation and the representative of the Government wishes to discuss it, please apply with a raise of hands. Mr. Pogačnik has already raised his hand. In that case, he'll get the last word. Before the application, I would like to remind you that there will be no visible names on the screen for the debate, so we will receive from the on-call room in a few moments a list of the reported debaters, which will be prepared by the system in a random order. I'm asking you to sign up. In total, 3 plus the applicant, i.e. 4. Each one will have five minutes. Mr. Jože Tanko, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, mag. Ange Logar and the proposer. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u102	Thank you so much for saying that. With regard to efficiency, I would make only one comparison, which is known. You remember the beginning of the financial crisis and the collapse of this banking empire of Medof. At that time, America intervened extremely quickly, Medofa was closed down, banks were rehabilitated, Medof got 150 years in prison in a couple of months, and banks were held in a few months, including City Bank, and then privatized after a few months. So this was the American approach to solving the problem. We have a case where we've saved banks in a very strange way. So first we set up a bad bank, transferred the assets there, put a lot of money into recapitalisation or the incomplete recapitalisation of banks. The banks are now state-owned, but no privatisation from this follows to somehow fix it, and no procedures are out. Apparently, this banking problem is being solved in some kind of Sue generis way. Recall, for example, the case of the Factor Bank or Probank, where the country deposited about EUR 400 million in one period and placed them in a programmed bankruptcy, in a programmed rehabilitation. But nothing happened. The Ljubljana Bank is similar. Instead of all these forensic investigations being carried out by the investigating authorities, it is done by a private company and it is filtered to deliver the files to the bank and then to the police. That's an interesting approach. And if we're now wondering why Slovenia is sliding on a scale, it's probably because in this way, in the economic and banking system, they've run out of the country or from this project an unknown amount of money. Nothing happened. Not one of the directors of the bank, who had problems, but where all of this came to light, not at Factor Bank, not at Probank, not at Nova Ljubljanska Bank, is in some serious process, nothing is happening. Then we wonder why Slovenia is sliding and will continue to skate. It's because these things don't work out that way. Those who tried to drive things in a transparent, transparent, independent way were suspended a few days ago. Again, in some way, people were appointed to ensure that, in some way, those who had spent a large portion of their assets would decide how their assets would be further settled, disposed of in some appropriate way through state funds and so on. None of the things we do in this country are clean, not transparent, not transparent. If this is the concept on the basis of which certain things are being pursued, it is more than clear that we cannot expect any significant changes in the long term or in the short term in terms of these deviations from these bad results on the scales. It's all connected, the way it works, the way it works. The privileges are those that guide the cooperation of this country, a policy that is ahead of those that guide it, but that advocates these things to be virtually unconscious, without reservations, and therefore there is no expectation of anything. Anyone who proposes anything in this area gets immediately the characteristic that the matter is not appropriate, is not systemic, is not comprehensive, saves nothing, is wasting time, we deal with other things. The right things this National Assembly has not faced because it prevents a coalition which, for the first time, rejects proposals that solve such things in the areas of banking, finance, economy, justice and so on, and for the second time because obviously some of them are protected in this country and should not be harmed, their hair must not be concealed, even for the things they have done wrong. As long as you defend such things, it is difficult to expect that Slovenia will start to rise up in comparison or comparatively with other countries on the scales, once again leading between the former Eastern countries and in any other area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u103	Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u104	Thank you very much. I may have been running out of time before, so now there's a few things to add. In short, no one blames the coalition for the things that are written in there. But you'll be guilty because you don't do anything. I spoke earlier about the need for judicial reform. Perhaps the following is possible earlier, since Dr. Dobovška is not in the hall and it is very clear that some friends have just attacked him, but he has set up a mirror for you. He said, "See if you can see yourself." See, that's what you look like. That's what he told the client, and that's why he left, and now you're attacking him. After all, his posture is about the same as it is today, and I have known her since 1993 approximately, principled and so forth. Of course, this is why we need to attack. But the fact that the minister became some other incompetent person, not him, is yours, not my problem, but good. I would like to talk about the reforms in the judiciary, Madam Secretary of State, when you talk about the reforms you have started, and I say that the flowers are sitting around the court. When will you ensure that article 8 of the Law on Courts is respected? This must be ensured as soon as possible. With the marriage again. I am speaking, of course, of appointment to a permanent term of office and of non-compliance with this provision. That would be a good start in reform. When, say, will you determine 6+3+3 in the law? 6 months for the first grade, 3 months for the second and 3 months for the third. In short, everyone will get justice in one year, one year or another. When will you pass a new law on criminal proceedings? That would be a fantastic reform of justice. Slovenia is the only country to have a judicial investigation set out in the CAP. And we all agree, you've nodded now, I don't know how many ministers back there are nodding. We adopted a new KZ eight years ago, and now it would be time for the CAP to change. We need a new CAP that will shorten its hands, which will drop the investigation and so on and so forth. That would be reform. When will you adopt the provision that we have adopted, then those behind us have annulled it, that the courts, the higher courts, cannot return to the first stage in re-decision, but must make a substantive decision. That would be a measure. But we accepted it, and then the next government behind us deleted this matter. Of course, under the influence of those I spoke before, Masha Kociper was here, representing the interests of the judges. Let's move on. When are you going to make public the judgments, names and names of the judges? When will Slovenian citizens be able to see them in accordance with the law? The image because they are on behalf of the people and the Slovenian citizens must not see the face of the judge. When will you determine that? When, say, will you legalize separate opinions in the Supreme Court? We can make supreme judges of terrible injustice. There's a Senate of five people, three people decide that, and two people make a different decision. Then they're all guilty. Then we read them in court, or read them all, and maybe one didn't mean it. But the decision must be secret, not public. In short, they can't give a separate opinion. Next, when will you determine the responsibility of the judges? Of course it is certain, the responsibility of the judges is determined, just tell me one who has been convicted. Milko Skoberne, no, he was for other crimes. When, say, will you set a time limit of 2, 3 years so that the judge can't go to law school? A cop can't go to security, a cop can't go as a detective, and so on, for four years. The judge can be a judge today, and of course he's a lawyer tomorrow. Not to mention the political impact on the judiciary. Because the Slovenian political left has, according to Jan Zobc, the Constitutional Judge, primate, the right to the truth or to the courts, and then it appears in a political conviction as it was in the Janša case, as it happens in the Kangler case and more. Those would be reforms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u105	The word has magic. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u106	Thank you, President. I was very disappointed at the State Secretary's response to today's debate. With some high-pitched tone, she went over the motioners, talked about a spirit that was wriggling out of these benches, and again she did not understand the message that should be the result of today's debate. She probably understood him, she didn't want to understand him, or she didn't want to show that she understood him. I am also concerned that the people working in the judiciary, the distinguished secretary of state, has come from the judiciary, has been there since 2001, has not listened to this debate here, is clear to us Members to sit on our ears, and then assigns these statements to Members who have not said them at all. I didn't say someone was sitting on their ears. If you're putting that in my mouth, check your magnetograms first. I didn't talk about Rule of Law, I don't know if you were sitting in my debate about it, I said Rule of Law was the real foundation of every democratic arrangement. But I said that what you said, if I quote you, is the Quality of Life Index, which is probably the most important to citizens, and this index is the softest of all the indices presented in our material. In fact, it has the least tangible source or input information. It's not specific statistics or something that we could compare, but it's substantive. To take this as an argument and then to present to us that we represent the wrong statistics, by the responsible, that is, the Secretary of State, it is slightly inappropriate. I understand, however, why the Secretary of State does not want this debate. Indeed, in 2005 the distinguished Secretary of State took over the management of the Office for the Development of the Judicial Administration at the Supreme Court and was also the Secretary of State in the previous government, that is to say, the government of Alenka Bratušek. In other words, all this statistics refer to 10 years of her work. The results of the derogation in the case of the judiciary, where Slovenia is the worst cut off, are exactly the result of the work of the current secretary of state, not in any case, because it would not give you such great credit, but a small part of it has obviously been denied by your work, because otherwise Slovenia would have done better in the area of justice. I have to agree with my colleague Gorenak again here. Those of you who came from a system that did not suffer criticism of the judiciary went into politics and then you intend to return to the system. Clearly, when you're in politics, you don't want to criticize the works of the judiciary. But that is why we should also set some standards in Slovenia, so that those who have come from the judiciary have no return to the judiciary. For the fluctuation of personnel between one branch and another has proved to be bad in all areas, lastly in the banking system, where we have supervisors and members of administrations who have interfered with each other and then left behind a 5 billion-dollar budget hole. Therefore, the distinguished Secretary of State, listen more closely to what the opposition has to say, listen even more closely to what foreign agencies and various institutes have to say, and take this as a well-meaning starting point for work, as you may succeed, and we will also praise you here in the opposition. In the light of my past work, although I am giving this success a less chance, perhaps some other human resources solution would promise more, but nevertheless the opposition gives you the opportunity to do so. You still have three years to brag about something, since you have nothing to do in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u107	The text shall be delivered by a representative of the proposer, Mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u108	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I regret that there has been no more listening from the coalition Members and Members so that we can have a quality debate today. I'm sure you misunderstood this call for an extraordinary session and considered it a direct attack on the coalition of the government of Mir Cerar. You are only mentioned at the outset, namely that we do not understand that you are holding on to the credit for economic growth and the good forecasts in the future, that these are some of the merits of other governments and that there are probably certain things that are said to be negative in these results are not some of your merit. However, I find it difficult to ignore the fact that it is likely for coalition partners, such as Desus, who has been a member of every government since 2008, or for the Social Democrats, because there was no government in which they would not be, this is probably a bit problematic. But it is primarily in our interest to do something in Slovenia. The purpose of this extraordinary meeting, as I mentioned earlier today, was to take place together with the proposal or presentation of the budget for 2016 and 2017. It is clear from these budgets that budgets are not targeted, even less developmental, and you need to be aware that if there is no reform in these two budgets, not the health system, not the public administration system, not the improvement of the situation for entrepreneurship, not the labour law, it is difficult to expect when these documents will be put out, because you have proposed a budget for 2017, this is the last budget before the electoral year if you hold your mandate. And here was the problem, and here were the reasons why we, as well as the proponents, proposed that this meeting be held because, according to the proposed budget, we became concerned that, in fact, the words you announced at the beginning of the mandate would be a little less realistic. I would like to mention once again that we do not accept these reforms because of Brussels, we do not accept them for the European Commission, we accept them for Slovenia and we must accept them for Slovenia. I am sure that reform without opposition will be difficult to accept. Follow also the policy pursued by the Janša government, both in the first and second mandates, when we made important decisions, when adopting legislation or when adopting actual reforms in some way, we tried to have both opposition and coalition seats at the same table as all social partners. I get from day to day the feeling that you've decided not to do anything, because then no one can tell you anything. You are letting go of the wind, which is so far positive, which has some economic growth, but I think it can be very dangerous, because this wind can quickly turn in view of the current situation in Europe and around the world. We need to be aware that 2016 can be completely different from the forecast at a given time. Why do the transition countries of the Czech Republic, Poland have a significantly higher forecast of economic growth in 2016? You didn't answer that. If you drink honey and milk like this government tries to explain why you will turn temporary measures from ZUJF into permanent measures? Why don't you lower the value added tax rate? Minister Koprivnikar talks about some of the achievements already introduced during the government of Janez Janša, such as the VEM project. He's talking about some clouds that the government is preparing, but they can't maintain the government's website and the ministries. The supervisor has not worked for more than three months, you have discontinued the KPK application. Not to mention human rights violations. If we were to be united, it was a violation of human rights. The coalition and the opposition to human rights violations should not be allowed to do so, but less so as to violate human rights [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-10-13-SDZ7-Izredna-21.ana.u109	I conclude the general debate on the proposal for a recommendation. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9. 12. 2009 The National Assembly notes that the procedure for the consideration of the proposal has been completed. By this and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the basis of which this meeting was also convened and carried out, I conclude this single agenda item and the 21st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. With real relief and genuine respect for our citizens and citizens, I want you all to rest peacefully for the serious work that still awaits us in the country and in the National Assembly.
