ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 13th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Mag. Jana Jenko, Mrs. Susana Lepi Šimenko, Dr. Milan Brglez, Dr. Mitja Horvat and Mag. Ange Logar. I say hello to everyone who's here! We continue with the end of the first item of the agenda, these are questions from Members and Members. Under this item today, ministers and ministers will answer questions from Members of Parliament and Members. The order of business shall be laid down in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Each Member shall have three minutes to ask the question. Ministers and ministers shall respond to questions within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers and ministers, they all have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who has asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President, Minister or Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the Minister or Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, we will place the issue at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On this point, they apologized for today: Minister of Culture Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar and Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc. We are moving on to the answers to the question put at the 12th meeting of the assembly. Minister of the Interior, Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar will answer Mrs Suzanne Lepi Šimenko's question regarding the number of persons registered at the same address. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, chairman. Member Lepi Šimenko asked me a question concerning the large number of permanent and temporary registered persons at the same address, in which she asked me five questions concerning the number of locations or addresses where ten or more persons are registered on the housing unit. Data from the Central Population Register on 23 November show that in the Republic of Slovenia there are a total of 4 thousand 46 addresses in residential or multi-housing buildings where more than ten individuals are permanently registered and 734 addresses in residential or multi-housing facilities where more than ten individuals are temporarily registered. The MP also asked whether these people actually reside on these addresses. Here I can say that the application and cancellation obligation is laid down by the Law on Registration of Residence. A statutory obligation is laid down for an individual to register his or her permanent residence at the address where he or she resides, as well as any change or cancellation if he or she is permanently evicted from the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. In certain cases, the obligation to register and terminate residence may also be imposed on the landlord, as in the case raised by the Member. She highlighted the title Strekljeva street 24 in Maribor. With regard to this address, the police also carried out certain procedures in view of the fact that the police detect a higher number of foreigners being reported at some addresses. In such cases, it shall also cooperate with administrative units and shall, in accordance with the Residence Registration Act, inform all data and other competent authorities thereof. However, when the police detect the suspicion of criminal services, including under the direction of the prosecution, they file a criminal complaint. This was also the case at 24 Strekljeva Street, Maribor, where police detected the legal signs of the criminal offence of verifying false content under Article 253 of the Penal Code and also accused the responsible person of the company that manages the single home at the said address. On the question of whether and how the actual residence of these persons is checked at the same address, I can say that the individual must demonstrate, upon application to the administrative unit, that he has the right to reside with the relevant evidence. Of course, if the competent authority doubts the reality, the administrative unit may carry out a process to verify the authenticity of the application, and in certain cases it may also introduce a procedure to determine the actual permanent residence. Both proceedings are administrative proceedings in accordance with the General Administrative Procedure Act. The messenger also asked if anyone wondered what kind of living conditions these people were living in. At the time of the application of residence, the living conditions of individuals are not checked. In fact, it is the individual's constitutional right to choose his or her place of residence and therefore the established criteria and verification of the living conditions may lead to a situation where the refusal of an application could cause harm to individuals who could not exercise certain rights which are bound or conditioned by the application of a residence. This could also lead in practice to an increase in the number of fictitious applications. Thus, the Law on the Registration of Residence is purely of a registrant nature and cannot be resolved by the pressure of individuals who may be living in inadequate living conditions. The Member of the Commission also asked what were the reasons for the registration of a large number of persons at the same address. The reasons are different. It can be a purely normal situation for a larger family or even more generations of one family to live together. Then it could be multi-housing buildings. There may be several persons registered on the behalf of landlords temporarily, such as in a specific case raised by the Member, i.e. single homes. It may also be the case that several persons are registered at the addresses of the institutions for the cessation of sentences. In these situations, however, it may also be the most sensitive groups of individuals who do not meet the conditions for applying for residence at a specific address and thus may, in the process of determining their actual permanent residence, be granted a so-called legal residence at the address of the authority or organisation where such an individual obtains assistance, and in such cases may also be notified at the same time to a number of ten individuals.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Minister of the Interior, Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar will answer Dr. Vinko Gorenak's question regarding the preparation of the Republic of Slovenia for the next wave of migrants at the borders of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u4	Thank you very much, again, for your word. As for the preparation of Slovenia for a possible second wave, I can say that this situation is already over or the second wave we have already experienced and we have been prepared for it, as we have also informed the public. I therefore think that this question must be answered in particular in other segments as it has been set up, in particular as regards return. Here I can say that the legal provisions on the responsibility of countries to take or return foreigners between countries are well known, but in this situation these provisions require reflection or even the question of the enforceability of the European acquis, given that there are in practice large deviations in the application of the rules by Member States. These rules are difficult to implement in practice in view of the multitude of arrivals of migrants. Germany has already stressed the importance of the Dublin Regulation from the outset, and has also suspended for humanitarian reasons for the Syrians during a certain period of time, and in practice, the implementation of these provisions is not so simple in practice, given that, irrespective of the open-door policy led by Germany for humanitarian reasons, legal remedies are also available in all instances. Thus, the practical application of the Dublin Regulation is very difficult in practice. Slovenia has also initially tried to comply with European legislation and international conventions, as regards the return of these persons, has not returned to a dangerous country, but, as we know, Croatia has rejected the return of economic migrants and this has not actually been possible. In this context, however, it should also be stressed that Slovenia is not the first country to enter the European Union for a large majority, because we do not have the external borders of the European Union, and not least the countries in this zone, i.e. the Western Balkan route, do not currently implement the Dublin Regulations. Thus, as far as the future solution is concerned, it will be necessary to agree on a uniform way, given that we do not currently have a single approach at the level of the European Union, but of course more efforts should be made by the European Union in the active return policy, given that this is also the essence of an effective regime to ensure that aid or international protection is provided in the European Union only to those who actually need it, while economic migrants need to be returned. It would also be politically problematic to divide into safe or dangerous countries by the German or other courts, given that there is a subsequent inoculation of the benefit of Schengen for one country, the duty from Dublin to other countries. In this regard, we also expect the European Commission's responses, which is the custodian of the rule of law and must also adequately address these situations, which could lead to unacceptable discretion in return. We cannot give an assessment of the number of returned foreigners, as this also depends on the current migration policy of neighbouring countries. The accommodation and care of migrants would also be carried out in accordance with the plans. The number of foreigners remaining in our territory depends on the situation as a whole and the question of how many people would actually have in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia at that time. However, as regards the closure of the border, this will depend largely on the manner in which all neighbouring security authorities act and respect for the arrangements. Slovenia has already foreseen and implemented certain measures and will, in any event, make a proportionate increase in measures in relation to the situation. However, the main purpose of implementing all these measures is to control the state border or to establish such conditions in the future so that the implementation of the Schengen acquis in practice can in fact be optimal.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak is asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u6	Thank you very much. In the introduction, I must remind you that this question was raised by 15. Ten, that's when I turned him in. That means before the second migratory wave began. The secretary was absent, so she's answering today. There is something else to be pointed out in this regard. Minister, you're very lucky, but good luck with the opposition. Why? Absence from the meeting of the National Assembly is possible only if you are abroad and not if you are in Šentilje or if you are in Brežice. But this State Assembly or the leadership of this National Assembly obviously tolerates this, which was not possible in 2012 and not in 2004-2008 when these rules were established. That's how we have to pour clean wine here. As for your answer, look at the following. You're saying we were ready. We will never come together in this, whether we were ready or not; I say we weren't. You'd be trying to justify this to me on the next case. Three weeks ago, the media reported that a 32-year-old Croatian citizen was stopped at the Pincas on Petrol's petrol service. He had seven Kosovo minors in his car, he wanted to go to Austria, the police stopped him, the minors took over a social work centre, the vehicle was seized, the investigating judge ordered a 30-day detention due to the suspicion of a crime under Article 308 of the Penal Code, which is illegally smuggled people across the border. The Croatian citizen used his car and used his gasoline. Tell me: What difference does it make between a Croatian police officer, a Croatian citizen and our police officers doing the same thing drive from the southern borders to the northern border? Explain to me: What is the preparation of the Republic of Slovenia for the second migratory wave? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, Mrs. Žnidar will answer you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u8	As regards the readiness of the Republic of Slovenia, much has been said in the past. I don't think there's even time for all the measures we've taken and what we're going to do here to clear up. The perception of unpreparedness does not match the actual situation on the ground, but only with all the measures taken by the Government, which also show good readiness for our operational services, unless you may wish to say no to the latter, but I don't think that's your intention. In fact, it is the primary interest of the Government in any case to ensure the order and security of the state, and we are doing so with great effort. Slovenia remains the guardian of the Schengen border at this point, but it is true that these rules are not adapted to a given situation, so that I can say that in a given segment the Schengen continues to be implemented, in a certain sense, regardless of the fact that the massive arrivals of a large number of people are indeed a matter for which all measures are appropriate, the police are implementing measures both at the border and in the interior. Finally, this case, mentioned by you, shows that the police are also effectively implementing measures in the interior of the country, given that we know that the essence of the Schengen is also that, through compensatory measures, state border controls are being transferred to the interior. The fact is that neither national nor European legislation is adapted to the massive arrival of people at our borders, especially in cases where they do not really want protection, they want to go to the target country, which, as the economically most powerful countries, has actually taken on a large part of this burden. At the moment, the procedure after the letter of the law is not possible, this is confirmed not only by the practice of Slovenia, but also by the practice of other countries, both Austria and Germany. In any event, it should also be borne in mind that mass, mass, unforeseeable migration also poses a risk to certain new security situations. We know that there is no single answer to this question and there is no single measure. However, I can say that, and we have also demonstrated in the past time that the Slovenian government is responding soberly, reacting proportionately and also crediblely.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u9	Here you go, Dr. Vinko Gorenak. Request for a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u10	I cannot ask any further questions, so, of course, it is a matter for discussion. I asked what is the difference between the Croat who smuggled and our police officers — that is not the answer. We are making progress or you are making progress, and the President of the Government is making progress, but not enough. Now you're talking about how we don't protect the Schengen border. I have heard this for the first time today from your mouth in front of the cameras, which is the truth, from the very beginning, so we also need to talk in the debate in the National Assembly, which is why I propose it. This is mainly about the difference between what our government is saying and what our government is doing. I'm going to give you some examples that I want to justify this request. The President of the Government or you, then also in Slovenia, there before Downing Street 10 says that we are a credible partner of Schengen. How's that? A quarter of a million illegal migrants, similar to the one in the country of Pinka, have been extorted by taxpayers by means of means of transport, an exact expression under Article 308 of the Act, to the northern border. And you say you're a credible member! Then either you said or the Prime Minister, one of you, said we'd never land on the Schengen in Caravanka. That's a great statement. I'll never agree to get sick, either. I'm not going to agree to get sick. But you know, it doesn't depend on my will, even the Schengen in Karavanka, which in my opinion leads this government to a quick trial, at least that's my opinion, is one of those things that doesn't depend on Slovenian will. This depends on the will of foreigners, Germans, Austrians and others. Then yesterday I also heard there – and now I cannot mention individuals in this Chamber – but I am talking about the debate on the Planet, your representative, who would understand everything if it were a person who has no idea about the police, and so it is a former police officer who talks about how we protect the Schengen, how everything is fine in this country. [[…]] We don't owe those down there, so the Greeks. We have the same duties as the Greeks because we are an external member of the Schengen. All of these are the reasons why I think we need to talk very clearly about these matters, but otherwise I have another question, which is more thorough there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Your response will be decided by the National Assembly today in the framework of the vote. The Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr Anja Kopač Dark, will answer Mrs Marjane Kotnik Poropat's question about the profit of home for the elderly. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The question raised was the level of care in the homes for the elderly and the profits, or better to say excess income over expenditure, because the profits under the law, because they are public institutions where all the money must include all the surpluses in the activity, we are having difficulty talking about profits that cannot actually be generated in public homes. If we look at the price, it provides for price formation in homes for older regulations on the methodology for the pricing of social security services. This Regulation shall take into account the elements for the calculation of service prices, namely labour costs, material and services costs, depreciation and investment maintenance costs and financing costs. Price coordination takes place once a year, with 1. In March, on the basis of the Official Journal of the Decision on the growth of social security price elements and the Decision on the establishment of an average wage standard and the cost and expenditure of institutional protection services for persons over the age of 65 and for adults with special needs in special welfare institutions and units of home for older persons, which can be taken into account in service prices. In doing so, labour costs shall be coordinated in accordance with changes in collective agreements and other wage-setting acts, and the costs of material and services shall be consistent with the annual Life Needs Price Index. In 2015, labour costs and material costs as elements of price calculation were not substantially changed. However, institutions have the option, on the basis of the rules, to apply the costs of depreciation of investment maintenance and financing to the price. The lowest care in the nursing home is 15.88 euros per day, which is calculated monthly to €476. This is for the most expensive care, this is care 1, which is intended for residents who, due to age or other reasons accompanying age, are not capable of a fully independent life and need a smaller amount of direct personal assistance. Supply 1 includes accommodation, laundry, personal hygiene and nutrition. The amount of the allowance or price shall be fixed for the standard service in the double room with the use of sanitary facilities. The highest care in the nursing home, we are talking about public institutions, is 24.57 euros a day, which means 762 euros a month. The average in public institutions is 17.44 euros per day, which is €541 per month. So we have 59 homes of public homes for the elderly and homes for the elderly, as I said, do not create profits, but surpluses of income over expenditure, as the law on institutions provides that the aim of doing business in a public institution is not to earn profits. The institution acquires funds for its work through payments for services provided, that is, payments by providers, and payments by taxpayers to pay, that is, payments by owners, payments by municipalities, the Health Insurance Office, the sale of goods and services on the market, and from the provision of home aid and other resources in the manner and conditions laid down by the Act establishing it. However, the amount of revenue generated over expenditure may be used by the institution solely for the purpose of carrying out and developing its activities, unless otherwise specified in the Act. In view of everything that is now going on with homes, we have set up a working group at the Ministry to review this regulation, the elements of these prices. If it turns out to be creating surpluses, i.e. more revenue over expenditure, and this makes it possible to reduce the cost of the day’s care, we will do so. However, the fact that it has been quite a few years, unfortunately, has also been found by the Court of Auditors to be covering health care costs from what people are paying for, that is, because the Department of Health Insurance does not fully cover these costs. It is therefore essential in this area to establish an integrated service within the framework of long-term care. Today is the day-long seminar on this subject with representatives of WHO, the Ministry of Health and our ministry, where we will look for common solutions. The fact is that these problems of high, actually high home costs for the elderly, which people pay from their pockets, could be partly due to an integrated service of long-term care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat – a request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. Dearly beloved, good-bye to all. Dear Minister, I thank you for that answer. I have no additional questions and it is true, the answer was thorough and extensive and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u15	Thank you very much. We are moving on to questions of Members and Members. Mag. Anže Logar is excusedly absent, the question will be raised by Violet Tomić to the Minister of Environment and Space, Mrs Ireni Majcen. Here you go. Mrs. Violeta Tomic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! My question is to the Minister of Environment and Space, Irene Majcen. The Ministry of Environment and Space provided for 7 wolves to be shot off from 1 October 2015 to 30 September 2016 in the Regulation on the collection of specimens of brown bear and wolf species from nature. As you are saying on your website, this number will not, according to a professional assessment, endanger the favourable condition of the wolf population. The discharge is directed at smaller and younger animals, taking into account the intended spatial distribution in the Regulation. In order to reduce the possibility of impact on the social structure of the tropic, a provision is made to close the shooting as soon as, for any reason, the dead three adult wolves — aged 2 years or more. Under certain conditions, the Habitat Directive allows for interference in the protected species population. The State has filled the possibility of point E referred to in Article 16, paragraph 1, of the Directive with an additional reason for the exception of nature removal, disposal and disposal, and is also allowed "to regulate the size of the species with the environment". Under the Habitat Directive, shooting should not harm the favourable state of the population, but the impact of shooting can only be assessed if we have data on the state of the population. The latest reliable data on the population of Slovenian wolves are available for 2012. At that time, the number of wolves in Slovenia ranged between 45 and 55. Every year, about 26% of wolves are taken out of nature by shooting, punching, and other known deaths, and more than 21% by emigration and unmarked deaths. The results show that the number varies enormously at the annual level and is very stable over the years. Our wolves are part of the dinar-Balkan population and almost half of the tropics are moving on both sides of the Slovenian-Croatian border. Although there is a moratorium on the shooting of wolves in Croatia, we will shoot them twice as many as we did last year, even though we do not have data on the wolf population. That's why I'm asking you: Why, even though we do not have reliable data for wolf populations in Slovenia, with the new Rules on the Withdrawal of Stocks of Brown Bear and Wild Wolf, are you further raising the allowed annual quota for the shooting of wolves by almost 100 percent compared to last year, even though this quota was exceeded last year? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Minister Irene Maycen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u18	Dear President, honourable Members and Members, honourable Mrs Violeta Tomić! When referring to the issue to me, I admit that the use of the term takes away and the use of the term firing is uneven. In fact, the Regulation itself speaks of taking away – and one of the possibilities of taking any animal species from its population is shooting away – and also comparing the data as you mentioned it is not relevant to me because it is not. I'll try to explain. Speaking of last year, however, it must be said that the planning period for the management of large beasts is the period between the beginning of October of the current year and the end of September of the following year. It's not a calendar year, it's a period like this. Compared to 2014/2015 when the Regulation provided for the collection of seven wolves this year. Last year, four were shot and three were taken out for other reasons. Now, if we're talking about withdrawals, these other causes could be disease, it could be age, it could be a train, it could be some other cause. This year, we keep the number of samples of seven wolves to be taken from the population, and this number is based mainly on data from the Slovenian Forest Institute, which has in several ways identified the population's numerical state. One of them is the possibility of responding to the advertisements of these professionals, so the wolf is called. Then material traces are collected: mud, hair, including harmful events, where DNA analysis is detected, so all data is professionally prepared, forest experts give this observed and anticipated numerical state, indicating that the wolf population has not decreased. During this year, and so from October of the following year in September, this period is foreseen, as I have already mentioned, to be the same as in the previous year, but it is true that this withdrawal is then carried out on the basis of the other causes and is limited to the number of wolves taken from the population by shooting. That way, at least at this time, these things can be managed in such a way. The fact that wolves move, that they're a single population, I'll admit that you have the correct data. The wolves, not only from Croatia, are probably lower, i.e. from Bosnia and Herzegovina, these movements take place mainly when new families are formed. On the other hand, we have been following in some way the responses of our residents, i.e. the Slovenians, who have problems with the aggressiveness of these tracks, mainly in attacks on domestic animals. Here are the most attacks on sheep. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Here you are, Mrs. Violeta Tomić, a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u20	Thank you for that answer. In accordance with the Council of Europe Habitat Directive, which you probably know very well, the State must, among other things, demonstrate the existence of the following conditions: the existence of a problem and the resolution of the problem. In doing so, the State must carry out three tests to determine the admissibility of the exemption. First, show the state of the population. Second of all, this is a comfortable situation. And for the third time, that the firing measure will not endanger the favourable condition of the species. To substantiate the type of measures taken to take and retain, or if the cause of the damage, the capture of individual specimens and the dilution of the population of protected species is an extreme measure, as you yourself said, and the State should assess the possible inefficiency of all other possible measures. The rules on the removal of bears and wolves also refer to the withdrawal, which is otherwise carried out by firing, but the shooting is not the only way to remove the specimen from nature, as we both agree. The Republic of Slovenia has not yet demonstrated compliance with any of these conditions in regulating the wolf population in Slovenia and is therefore in violation of the Habitat Directive. Slovenia has not shown the positive results of the three tests mentioned above. The problems of damage to poultry and poaching, which are the main reasons for the shooting, do not show real and based on data indicating the existence and extent of the problem, and at the same time does not seek other options to solve the problems addressed by the wolf shooting measure. That's why I want to know: Is there any reason for the shooting of wolves under Article 16, paragraph 1, of the Directive, or is there no other satisfactory option to address these reasons? Does the proposed shooting of wolves really not harm the maintenance of a favourable condition of species conservation? Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u22	The fact is that the management of the protected wild animals population with numbers is still less possible to substantiate, as is the case with the rearing of domestic animals, where this can be done by all tasks performed by the owner of the animal – i.e., numbering, registration, removal of cadavers. There is evidence of a numerical situation and can be identified in any case. In the wild, this thing is less gripping. How to prove that the numerical situation is relatively favourable is, I said, perhaps through the experts of the Institute of Forests, therefore the available methods are used. It is not just a description of an animal or a photograph of an animal or a picture of an animal. It's an indirect material trail. They are doing the same elsewhere within the European Union when we are talking about this Directive. I hope that Slovenia is relatively successful in establishing a favourable situation, given that the Natura 2000 area is also among the highest shares, that we have a rather good situation not only for wolves, but also for bears, that, in fact, it is a problem to ensure a favourable situation for lynx, and in this part I am convinced that these professional services of the Institute of Forests provide sufficient relevant information and the Ministry or that I do not have any doubts about this data. It is also a population withdrawal, of course – we know that in a family where there is a slightly larger number of offspring, then even less able descendants of wolves are killed and nothing can be recorded. It is true, however, that in determining the vitality of these populations, it is important to understand that life is kept numerically, so that life is free enough for them to sustain this population in Slovenia for several years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Request for a debate at the meeting of the National Assembly, please, Mrs Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. Since Slovenia does not have data on the real state of the wolves in Slovenia and the shooting is based on the 2012 monitoring data, when the LIFE project SloWolf was completed, and does not value the various possible measures relating to the wolf and not only to the killing of the wolf, it is merely a flat-rate assessment that such measures do not exist. The worst part is that NGOs have already brought an action before the Administrative Court and are considering bringing an action before the European Court of Justice. I think that this problem needs to be renegotiated here, because it is not only a problem to consider the estimated shooting of wolves and the violation of the Habitat Directive, the whole area of protection of the wolf in Slovenia is problematic. In the field of criminal protection, for example, there is a problem of inconsistent use of the concept of wild animals, game and endangered species. In short, since Slovenia is at risk of international lawsuits and damages, I think it is worth considering, so I propose that a general debate be held on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly today in the framework of the votes. Mag. Lilliana Kozlovich will ask the finance minister Dr Dusan Maramor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u26	Thank you, President, for your word. Honorable Council of Ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, and especially Minister Dusan Maramor! At national level, we are aware of the importance of the country's indebtedness and the consequences it has on all of us. My question, however, relates to the indebtedness of the congregations, as it is known in the public that some of us are not talking about everything, but some municipalities are in excessive debt and their fiscal situation is, we know, also part of the fiscal situation in our country. However, their over-indebtedness will certainly affect several generations in a particular local environment. Given that the State has both a regulatory and supervisory system governing this issue, I would like to ask you for an explanation: How is it possible for congregations to still be indebted beyond these rules? Are they also – as we know they should – committed to an adapted economic fiscal policy to achieve fiscal stability? It says: Has the government faced this problem, and how does it feel further? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Dr. Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u28	Dear Member of the Mag. Lilliana Kozlovich! Municipal debt is currently governed by the Law on Public Finance and the Law on Community Financing and by the regulations. Community debt is limited in the Law on the Financing of the Communities and the overall extent of the indebtedness of the municipalities is not problematic; only individual municipalities are indebted. Their over-indebtedness is due mainly to non-compliance with legislation in the area of the provision of guarantees and payment deadlines. The municipalities may issue guarantees for liabilities owed to indirect users and public undertakings whose founders they are. In the past, however, individual congregations have also issued guarantees for liabilities owed to private legal persons. The Ministry of Finance shall not give consent under the applicable legislation to issue a guarantee to the municipality. The municipalities may only pay their obligations within legal time limits, and by entering into contracts on commercial credits they are in breach of those deadlines and thus assume long-term obligations affecting the overall indebtedness of the municipality, as defined by the applicable Law on Community Financing. Individual municipalities, in addition to existing legislation, have other transactions that may result in long-term obligations on the part of the congregation, for example, by making patronage declarations. Neither do individual municipalities report consistently on the state of indebtedness of the municipality and of legal persons of the public sector at the level of the municipality of all debt operations. A budget inspection, which can only be carried out at national level in accordance with the applicable legislation in the municipalities, for funds received by municipalities from the state budget, but which does not have the authority to control the other funds of the municipal budget. The proposal for a new Public Finance Act will also comprehensively regulate the area of the indebtedness of municipalities and legal persons in the sector of the country of the founder or owner of the municipality and of public non-financial corporations. It will be suggested that the Ministry of Finance will control the issue of consensus not only on the responsibility of the congregation but also on the issue of guarantees to the congregation. It will also be proposed that the individual conduct of the responsible persons of the municipality in the area of borrowing, issuing guarantees, taking up obligations under the current year's budget and subsequent years and payment periods that may affect the indebtedness of the municipality will be defined as offences. It will be proposed that the criminal authority, this budgetary inspection, will also have control over the operation of all public finances, which does not allow the current legislation. This solution will make a significant contribution to improving operations through municipal budgets.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Complement?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u30	I just want to say thank you. I see that the Government has faced this problem of regulating the legal bases and also taking care of implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u31	Dr. Vinko Gorenak will ask the Minister of the Interior a question. A priest. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u32	Thank you very much. I used to talk about this smuggling of people across the border. On the inside of the Ministry, someone might ask me when you're going to give me an interpolation or something. I am aware that you have been unprepared, and you claim to have been, so now we have a quarter of a million people we have sent to Europe. To continue with this question. This question was also written 10 days ago and is not up to date again; it is not up to date because events are developing so quickly. Ten, twelve days ago – the question was written 12. 11. 2015 – I asked: When are you going to introduce asylum legislation or, more specifically, the Law on International Protection? And I kept asking: How many police officers and what countries are there to help us? I'm still asking: Are funds provided for the payment of their work? I can comment on things in part. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is the only government on the path of migrants – Mrs Kozlovič has gone out, I have seen, according to what she said yesterday – which has not changed asylum legislation. The State of Slovenia is today the only minister who gives migrants a allowance, even the Germans give zero euros, and we are richer and give quite a bit of money. You were not prepared to amend the legislation, so yesterday we introduced a law in which we summarized what is currently in force in Europe. First of all, quotas: if the country says at the annual level, we will take so many and so many. Second: that no asylum seeker can get his allowance, but he gets a bed and three meals. Arrivederci, it is over because it is so in Germany and cannot be richer in Slovenia because Slovenians are poorer than Germans. Thirdly: that anyone who commits during the asylum procedure any offence and a crime to expel him immediately – as this is also understandable. Fourthly: to regulate asylum legislation or the Law on International Protection in a way – we listened to it with our proposal – that the final objective of the service of the Republic of Slovenia to the asylum seeker is to live here for as long as the danger in his country has not passed, but then goes home, not to integrate it, as it is called. Here I expect your support because we have done the job, the opposition has done a job that you have not done. I'm asking: Will this be a support? And those two additional questions: How many foreign police officers are there now? Do you have money to pay the cops? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u33	The Minister of Magic will answer. Vesna Györkös Žnidar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you very much for the questions asked, too. Dear Member, I can tell you that the Ministry of the Interior has been actively preparing for some time now a new Law on International Protection, including the transposition of certain directives that we are obliged to transpose into our legal order. The bill is currently in the final stage and is expected to be addressed also by the Government this week, and in this proposal certain articles will actually change in terms of providing faster procedures and also in terms of overheating the standards of treatment, given that this bill is also being prepared in the light of current issues. So don't hold that the government isn't ready for this. We have been working on this for quite some time, but it is true that all these procedures need to be worked out, so that it will actually be feasible in practice after that, because we know that this current situation, when it comes to mass unforeseeable migration flows, also requires provisions that are operational so that we do not cause certain anomalies. As far as foreign police officers are concerned and from which countries they are with us; Slovenia was extremely successful at the mini summit in Brussels when we were able to exercise our concrete interest, that is, the arrival of police from other countries on a bilateral basis to help protect the external Schengen border. At the moment there are 189 foreign police officers in Slovenia from nine European countries helping to carry out tasks related to managing the migration crisis in the area of police administrations Novo mesto, Maribor and Murska Sobota. The country-by-country review is as follows: 52 from Hungary, 26 Estonia, 20 Czech Republic, 20 Latvia, 20 Lithuania, 20 Slovakia, 14 from Austria, 11 from Germany and 5 from France, and arrangements are under way to conclude an agreement on the participation of foreign police from Romania, Bulgaria, Italy, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. The tasks of the host police, as you know, will be to help maintain public order and peace, to assist in controlling and directing, to retain larger groups of migrants, to cross borders and to follow up with migrants. Participation in other police activities or tasks, the blockade of the area and other events that cannot be anticipated in advance and the prevention of crime. However, as regards the financial resources for the current payment of salaries and all additional police officers performing tasks at the national border with the Republic of Croatia, under the conditions met under the provisions of the Labour Relations Act and on the basis of the provisions of the Law on the organisation and work of the police, all the work of police officers carrying out border duties with Croatia will be determined and carried out in accordance with the applicable rules. The remuneration and allowances of police officers shall be provided on the basis of a decision of the Government of 17. 11. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Request to complete your response, please, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u36	Thank you very much. I'm very pleased with this last part when you say the funds are provided. I had to provide them, too, during these massive demonstrations out here. But you said about those on the border – I hope it's for everyone. Because even those who worked here in Ljubljana instead of those who went to the border must have, I think, for everything, I conclude from your reaction. [[…]] Okay, that part's okay with me. What's distracting is that I hope you'll complement something else. You say: I was extremely successful, 189 police officers from 9 countries. It's nothing, it's nothing! But I'm not saying that I'd be more successful if I were you, I'm not saying. Kker can't be. Indeed, the mechanisms in Europe are such that if yes, if not, they will not. Slovenia currently needs 3,000, 4,000, 5,000 police officers, that would be European solidarity and that would be your success. But I'm not saying you're not successful. I'm not reading this because you can't. The European countries decide whether or not to give. But success isn't. 189 police officers are approximately the Ljubljana-Center police station. That is how Europe has done nothing to Slovenia. That's how you have to make it very clear. They didn't do anything. But if we had a serious intention of helping, protecting the external Schengen border, there would be 3 to 4 thousand here, but that's not up to you. What's embarrassing and painful is this. On September 1st, you told me: We are preparing the law intensively, the asylum law, the law on international protection. On September 23rd, I received the same answer. You say all this until today, when it's the end of November. But I wrote that law, which was filed yesterday, along with a professional associate in five hours — 26. 9. to 27. 9. But until today, we waited for it, or yesterday, because we said it would be the government. And the government didn't. But you have 350 officials working on it. And I'm an expert associate, and we did it in six hours. At least back up.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u38	In fact, I have nothing else to add, given that the Member did not ask any further questions. I can only repeat what was said. The bill will be discussed on Friday in the Government and after the government's adoption, if this happens, of course the public will also be thoroughly informed.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, request a debate at the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u40	It requires that, of course, because this is just a topic and these are things that we simply have to talk about practically every day, let alone so thinly. Since I cannot ask any further questions, there is only one more suggestion, a comment or whatever you wish. Our law is the first. Ours has to put the procedure through, and then the government comes in because you're late. But take advantage of a business opportunity that allows you, as you know, to make a hybrid, which means our marriage plus government law is then dealt with on boards and then at the National Assembly and that it is made of all this as soon as possible, as soon as possible some normal law, because we are simply too late. As for the request for a debate – of course. I expect a clear and clear word from the Government and from the Minister of the Interior. This clear and loud word is not and is not, and therefore requires a public debate in the National Assembly. How do I feel? I feel this – I want to justify why this – that everything is going too slowly. The government lies like a snail if I make such a comparison in this area of illegal migrants. But what goes through the government with a breath, I'll say, terrorism, if you want – your official talked about it, the police's undersecretary of crime – and the trees pass by this snail with one fine Ferrari. But the snail and the Ferraris know what the result is. It is therefore right to discuss, however, the question of illegal migrants and the measures taken by the Government, the Ministry and everyone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Your request will be voted on by the National Assembly in the framework of the vote this afternoon. Mr Jožef Horvat will ask the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen and the Minister for Economic Development and Technology of Mr Zdravko Počvalšku.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister for Environment and Space, Minister for Economic Development and Technology! My question concerns the demand to reduce the consumption of geothermal water or geothermal energy and, of course, is also linked to relatively high concessions. At its 65th regular meeting on 5 November this year, the government adopted nine regulations on thermal water concessions from wells. The economic operators that have received the regulations and those who are still awaiting them are deeply concerned and indignant, as such high concessions do not tolerate or pass on the calculations of their products. As a result, this can lead to major job losses and even closure of health care facilities and businesses. All of this would pose an extremely dangerous risk and for the entire regional economy and social well-being, especially Pomurje, where we know about two thirds of the total Slovenian geothermal potential. Because of its high concessions, it is particularly due to the impact, as said, of Pomurje, precisely because many of the strategies in the development of Pomurje were written precisely on the basis of the exploitation of geothermal water or geothermal potential. Here are very successful, so far, medical tourism and, of course, other companies using geothermal heat such as Paradiz, Ocean Orchids, orchids, and heating apartments, and so on and so on. It also destroys the comparative competitive advantage of the region of Pomurje, which is already one of the most underdeveloped regions with the highest unemployment rate in Slovenia. Therefore, the requirements for reduced consumption of geothermal water and energy and high concessions are of great concern to me. I am, of course, advocating respect for the Slovenian and European legal order, but colleagues and colleagues, probably Slovenian and European legal order are not going in this direction to destroy companies using geothermal energy. Dear Madam Minister, Mr. Secretary! Please clarify and substantiate the relevance of geological research suggesting a drastic reduction in the exploitation of the geothermal potential of Pomur. I also ask you: When determining the amount of concessions, did the Government consider that high concessions would jeopardise the business of economic operators, which could lead to the bankruptcy and loss of many jobs and consequently the loss of municipal and state budget revenues? Thank you very much for your answers in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Irena Majcen, will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u44	Thank you. Dear Member, Mr. Joseph Horvat! With regard to the question of fixing the amount of concession, I must explain that at the Ministry of the Environment and Space in our databases, we have verified the amount of concession for those concessionaires who have awarded concessions or concession contracts and data on the future amounts of concessions for 2016. Since we've talked about this on the committee, I'm just going to brief you. The value or amount of the concession is given by three elements; on all three, the applicant has the option of having an impact on the award of the concession. One is the value the company wants to reserve in the coming years too, it can be developmental, but it is not necessary, for the growth of its company, then it is actually the amount of water consumed and in this third set is an injection where the concession can be reduced by 80 %. In the calculation itself, so if we take this side by side, it has to be said that generalisation at different input temperatures from the well is not possible. The formula in the Regulations takes into account such a potential quantity of pumped water and actually pumped water and delta T, which is the temperature difference between the average annual temperature of groundwater in the mouth of the well and the 12 degrees Celsius. In fact, it has been found that there are no significant differences in price at the same temperature in the mouth of the well and in the same amount of water used. Existing concessionaires pay concessions on the basis of a formula that takes into account the net income of each company. It should also be noted that existing concessionaires have a lower temperature on their mouths. Most of them are between 24 and 37 degrees Celsius, while the Pomurje gas station is characterized by a higher temperature. New concessionaires will pay 10 cents per cubic of exhausted water at such temperatures on the mouth of the well. In view of the above, it is not possible to trace the statement that there has been a 5-fold increase in concessions, but we agree, and we are also aware that by 2016 these companies have not paid concessions and, of course, this calculation or any new burden for them. This, however, does not mean that concessions have been granted, and we do not want to boast at the Ministry of Environment and Space. According to data and inter-resort coordination with concessionaires, we have estimated gravely that the concession income in 2016 would be between a million 800 and 2 million. If investors make an effort to reduce these amounts, with which, I have already said, it is possible to reduce the amount of concession, these revenues may also be lower – not necessarily that we, I would say, are good at assessing. In reviewing the business results of members of the Association of Slovenian Natural Medicine and the net revenue from sales in 2014, we can use our calculation to ensure that these concessions do not reach even 1% of net revenue. Our calculation is 0.95% and therefore, for us, eliminates the unfairly better competitive position of entities that have not been granted concessions – that is, one of the longer stories – and in this way also the risk that these companies have received unjustified State aid, waste. I'd like to say more about the relevance of geological research. Unfortunately, I cannot discuss this, I am not competent, but we will provide you with this extensive documentation by mail and perhaps discuss these professional issues further with the Geological Survey. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvat will give Mr. Restoration a chance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u46	Of course! Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to point out once again that there are some very successful stories in the Pomurje area or, if you like, examples of good geothermal energy and geothermal water exploitation practices. Medical tourism in Pomur is an extremely important economic sector and an important employee. We recorded a total of €82 million in tourism revenue and a thousand 500 employees in 2014 in Pomour. The municipalities of Pomur, where they operate, received more than €650,000 from tourist fees alone. Taking into account the tourist multiplier, tourism in our region has a regular employment of at least 3 000 people, which has no negligible impact on social well-being in the region. In addition, account must be taken of all other benefits such as income, social transfers, value added tax and so on. When we are talking about the demand to reduce the quantity of geothermal water and energy, I am thinking about whether we might order, if not too expensive, what kind of study of a foreign recognised institution. In fact, you know how things happen in Slovenia, but what if there was some kind of lobby involved that might have pushed someone, and all of a sudden the results of the analysis of our geothermal reserves are shown by simply drying up. Termal 1 as an extremely important aquifer has an extraordinary capacity, however, about 5.8 times 10 to 8 gigajoules. This is the heat equivalent of nearly 14 million tons of oil. And suddenly now this geothermal potential is slowly drying and our Pomurje development strategies are written wrong and we are actually ahead of a breakthrough. I would also ask the Minister to take a look at these developments.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Minister Zdravko Restoršek will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u48	Mr President, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! Most companies, with the exception of three, have not yet paid for the use of thermal water, but have already applied for concessions years ago. We can discuss who is responsible now that these concessions have not been granted. My personal view is that responsibility is mutual, although formal responsibility is greater in the country, as it was also necessary for economic operators to take a few steps to grant concessions. The fact is that three concession companies have been paying since 2008, that it is 2015 this year and that it goes here in some way for the non-conformity that had to be eliminated. On the basis of the coordination between the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, it was agreed that concessionaires could influence concessionaires in three ways. This is also evident and possible through the regulation. First of all, by establishing an appropriate level of water right for water use. All companies have rights, as a rule, far higher than those they need; it is said that, on the basis of what they intend to do next, they can decide in the long term for a quantity corresponding to them and also this amount can affect the amount of concession. Secondly, by reducing and rational use of the accumulated amount of water. Thirdly, the most important measure, implementation or re-injection of the water used. In short, all in this light is that water returns to the space from which it is exhausted, and thus companies can reduce their concession to 80%. I deeply believe that this matter is possible up to 50% without any major intervention, and in this context I believe that we have as much equality as we have between those who have already paid it. I would like to say that we have also achieved that there is a transitional period. That if they don't do anything, they won't get to the full concession until they're four years old. In any case, we are aware of the difficulties that would have arisen if it were true that these concessions would only endanger business. I deeply believe that these steps and concrete calculations must be made first and then discussed whether this will affect business itself to this limit in order to [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath. Request for a debate in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u50	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly allow me to decide to open a broad debate in the National Assembly on this issue. This is actually an extremely important area. Of course, I respect that the Government has somehow invited all representatives of economic operators who exploit geothermal water and geothermal heat, i.e. energy, but precisely because in the past the state has not done its job, these concession decisions and the actual limitation on the use of quantities are a shock to these economic operators. That's perfectly normal. These economic operators all operate on the basis of the permits they received from the State. On the other hand, each economist has a vision of how to grow, how to expand, say, medical tourism, how to expand the production of vegetables, if you want orchids, and so on. This is in fact in the nature of every true economist. In this context, I am asked a question about reservations in the future, i.e. reserves of quantities of geothermal water and the use of geothermal heat. It is perfectly normal for every economist to want to grow and, therefore, to reserve more in the future. I don't think we have any answers to all these questions. I agree that all those who use geothermal water from the wells should also make re-injection gardens. Of course, there is an immediate cost or investment that is not so negligible. The re-injection well must be about two kilometres away from the primary well, I don't know. It is necessary to obtain the consent of the landowners, and this garden must be made. Estimates are that such re-injection vegetables cost between a million and a half million. Okay. But here I also wonder whether the country can in some way help, given that we have more than €45 billion within the European Union to promote a low-carbon economy. What we are talking about is a good example of a low-carbon economy. So there are many questions that, I am sure, the National Assembly could find some answers, of course, together with the Government, so that, by implementing the European and Slovenian legal order, they would not prevent the economic initiative and suppress or hinder the Slovenian economy that uses geothermal potential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly today in the framework of the votes. Ms Marinka Levičar will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food mags. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. A nice greeting to all, and especially to the ministers and ministers who are leaving! Dear Mr. Dejan-Jeedan! The Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests has considerable obligations to denationalisation beneficiaries. There is information in the public that even after legal proceedings have been completed, the Fund is delaying payments to the beneficiary and that late interest is very high, higher than for long-term deposits. In this regard, I am interested in the reasons for the delay in paying these commitments, in particular because the fund for payments to beneficiaries is expected to have €28 million reserved. I also want to know: What are the actual late interest rates, and how are they determined? Late payments and resulting high late interest go both to good denationalisation beneficiaries and to the detriment of the budget. Since I find this kind of behavior unacceptable, I ask you to explain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The Minister of Magic will answer. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u54	Dear President, distinguished Members and Members of Parliament, a nice greeting! I thank the Members for the question and for the opportunity to provide information. I would like to say that the information which has appeared in the public that they are not in compliance with obligations that are not paid does not hold. The Fund shall fulfil all its financial obligations imposed on it by judicial decisions in cases of compensation for indemnity of entitlement to use within specified time limits and shall not generate any late interest under this Title. But let me say something else about the background. Since 2005, when the Supreme Court has established that the expectations of inability to use are also being met by the Supreme Court with the rule "a contrario", which is not directly imposed in law, the Fund is faced with this phenomenon, and a methodology has also been established in accordance with 2006 and 2007. I must say that this methodology provides for much lower payouts than are generally decided by Slovenian courts. Most Slovenian courts decide on the maximum amount possible and not on some balanced amount, but where it comes in, say, on the possibility of settlement, they are lower. I tell you, for example, two agreements - unfortunately these agreements are too few - where the first request was EUR 662,000 and finally reached an agreement of EUR 37 000 600 or in another case where the claim was 8.4 million and an agreement of EUR 1.95 million was reached. The amount of late interest shall be determined by the Act on the prescribed interest rate and therefore shall not be determined on its own initiative. The latter was set out in Official Journal No 48/2015 and amounts to 8,05 % more than deposits. So these are the late interest rates set by the court. The current status of outstanding, not legal, but outstanding, out-of-court and judicial claims is on 17. 11. 2015 as follows: the Fund shall have, under Article 20 of the Denationalisation Act and Article 145 of the Unsolved 13 Out-of-court Claims Act, EUR 1.24 million and 18 requests from parties, also outstanding, and these amount to EUR 22.8 million. Therefore, the total amount of court and out-of-court claims amounts to 24 million, but this is not already a legally binding claim and is also trying to negotiate between the application and the payment. However, I must say that, at the time of the conclusion or agreement or the decision of the competent court, the applications will also be paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Lah will ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Peter Gasperšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u56	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Nice greetings to ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I am asking the Minister of Infrastructure about the third development axis, this middle part of the third development axis. In fact, we all know that both the north and the south are higher in the ranking by priority and far in preparation than this middle part. However, in this medium part, the Peace Valley, which has quite a number of economies and is in serious trouble due to poor transport connections, also expects the construction of a third development axis in this area. Because of the terrain configuration, because it is very complicated or complicated here, this part will probably also be very expensive, very expensive performance. That's why I want to know: How far is the ministry with preparations for putting into this work? And since everything from Sevnica to Radeč is driven across the Mirska Valley and Trebnje to Ljubljana, some companies have serious problems because the emergency transport of the larger cargo is not possible on this road and they must drive, say, from Krmelje via the Wall Bridge and Celje around to Ljubljana. So I was wondering if you could, Minister, say: When can all these entrepreneurs who are few – and one part of the new economic zone is growing in the Peace Zone, where a few investors are expected in the coming year – when can they expect – or do you have any other solution, faster, cheaper to bridge at least the most critical points in this work? In fact, there is more traffic on the Mirna Bridge every day than on the Gorjane crossing, but we know that this part is very much needed for the White Landscape and will be a very expensive option that is being designed, but something must be done on this part of the Mirska Valley, because it would also solve a lot.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Minister Peter Gaspersich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u58	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Members! I thank Mr Zvonk Lah for the question raised. Indeed, the third development axis is in various stages of preparation, and the north and south are, I will say, quite a bit further in this respect, because accommodation in space at least in certain parts has already been completed. In this middle part, so between the A1 motorway, it is Ljubljana–Maribor, and A2 Ljubljana–New City, the placement activities are still in progress. This placement was launched in 2006, when an initiative was launched to draw up the State Spatial Plan. At that time, various variants were studied in this middle part in various corridors, both in the western via Zasavje, in the central part via the municipality of Laško and also in the eastern via the Kozjansko region. This led to the conclusion of this activity in 2007 with the proposal of the most appropriate corridor in this middle part. This was this central corridor, where the most appropriate option was also proposed through Celje, Laska, the Wall Bridge to Sava and then through Mokronoga and Šmarješke Spalice, where it was envisaged to join the A2 motorway. The main problem of this proposed corridor, however, was economic eligibility and social acceptability both in the municipality of Laško and Šmarješke Toplice. As a result, it was later decided that these planning platforms would somehow be redefined so that an additional variant of the so-called minimum alternative would be processed. An additional variant of the so-called minimum alternative has been identified. It was also decided that the advantages and disadvantages of this minimum alternative should then be processed compared to the most appropriate option proposed and that it should then decide which proposal would be suitable for further work. The minimum alternative has been taken into account by considering the possibilities of modernisation under the existing transport infrastructure. This would provide for different combinations of new buildings, the most problematic sections of the reconstruction of existing infrastructure with smaller investment measures, and also to maintain this existing infrastructure in certain places where existing infrastructure is least problematic. Thus, in 2010, this supplement to the variant study was commissioned taking into account this minimum alternative and two variants of this minimum alternative were processed. The case has now gone so far as to provide for the unbundling of this study of variants, which is foreseen at the beginning of the following year. Furthermore, we plan to see the Government confirm, in 2016, the most appropriate alternative solution. As far as follow-up activities are concerned, however, it is now up to how this process of moving into space will proceed. If we quickly reach the completion of the State Spatial Plan, then the activities themselves will continue in line with the priorities. So, the most critical places first and then gradually, so that, then, this central part, which – as you said – is very critical. We know that here from the central part very much traffic takes place through Mirna to the highway. In fact, activities are essential. We also know that the economy of this region is actually suffering from this limited accessibility to the highway network. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Bell Lah, please make a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u60	Given that little funding is foreseen in the Development Programmes Plan until 2019, it is not expected that money will be available from the new financial perspective until 2020, nor is it expected that the country will be in debt, so I think it would be possible to think more about resolving this economy. In fact, I have repeatedly pointed out that the error in putting this third development axis into space was because it did not take into account the development components, but the project task was designed typically for transport connections, that is to say how to get from point a to point b as quickly as possible and build a modern road at the lowest cost. I don't think it's realistic to expect this medium work for about 10 years or more. On the other hand, the Municipality of Mirna accepts the OPPN to move the state road in order to resolve this critical point. By carrying out this, at least in some part, to save this industrial zone or to bypass this bridge on Mirna and perhaps even the bypass of the Mokronoga, we would have solved enormously; even without updating the rest of this road to Sevnica. I think it would be more wise to allocate resources for some execution than for expensive studies of road design that we will probably never see or wait for in our lives. I therefore hope that you will go to this economy and to these municipalities and that something will be done in this area in a few years.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Gaspersich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u62	Thank you very much. As you mentioned, we are facing this problem, with the possibility of financing all these necessary infrastructure sections, which are also crucial for the further development of the economy and the entire regions that are currently suffering from these poor connections. To this end, at the Ministry, we are very much thinking about providing additional resources to build this infrastructure and this package of development plans in this area will represent the so-called national or operational programme for infrastructure development, which we are preparing on the basis of a strategy adopted by the Government this year. This package, it is said, all these plans, activities, priorities, we will also prepare together with the proposal to provide these additional financial resources. Here we are thinking about the establishment of a so-called infrastructure centre. If we fail to provide these additional resources, we are in fact looking forward to a very long-term gradual improvement in this infrastructure. I hope that as early as ten years, we will also be able to provide the projects that you mentioned, with priorities that will, with a methodology that will allow it to take into account priorities, on which basis we will then rank, which projects we will start to regulate earlier, which will later, of course, with funding provided. In short, all of this will be in this national programme, the operational programme, if you want, defined and defined. We will see, then, how and where these critical sections will be resolved. This is expected to be ready by the middle of next year.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Lah requests for a vote in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u64	I would use this business opportunity to vote on a broader debate here, in Parliament, on this. In fact, everything has to be looked at through money, and I wonder too many times how to find money for, for making studies, for a lot of projects, and in the back, there is no real means to build these projects. But then all that remains in the development programme plan, and we have a lot of projects on state roads in 1998 and 2000, tops 2009 when the new government comes, and once we have to clean it up or say that we have spent so much money without a relationship, we will not go into this project, but not to continue to spend any more studies or finish the project, but nothing will. [[…]] Even for the southern part of the third development axis, I wonder when it will be carried out because the transport economic study is negative and if the link is only with the White Country, I think it will never be positive. If it is not positive, it is also a question of the usefulness of implementing such a project. In this medium part, too, given the development component, we would certainly not lead from Celje and to the New Town a special road, because we know that we are now going to Celje from New City along an existing highway, a few miles away, and here too the transport economic study will never be positive. We have a road along Sava, and when these power plants are being built, this infrastructure can be updated to reach the highway on the lower part or even Zagreb. And this middle part of the Valley of Peace will be left with a pocket. But we need to update the road here, not to go with a two-passenger like in the White Land, nor do we need a fast road, but some normal two-passenger with a lane, say, 3 meters or 3.75. So get rid of these two pockets, the still and the wetlands, and it can be done quickly. The municipalities will help as well as the economy. I think that if this road is built quickly, only the economy, with its share of payment in the state budget, will quickly repay this road if we do not go back to some overinvestment. I therefore propose that this be discussed because I think it is necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly this afternoon in the framework of the vote. Mr Matjaž Germany will ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that. Good afternoon, nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues! Dear Minister, good afternoon! We turn to you many times, not with solutions, but with problems. I will try to be a little different this time, i.e. the initiative comes not only from my side, but mainly from civil society or individuals and organised society. Actually, I'm talking about the 110-year-old Bohinian track, and we're going to celebrate this anniversary next year. 110 years ago, under the patronage of Franca Ferdinand, one of the most attractive and beautiful European railway lines was opened. Every time, at least in recent decades, this route has been a burden to the state. The crisis we have experienced in recent years has shown new opportunities, especially tourism has been the one that has somehow generated the development of our society; in times of the most severe crisis of 3 to 4%, we will most likely talk about 13 and 14% this year. And it was this year that it showed all the opportunities of this track, not in the form of a burden anymore, but mainly the occupation itself, the popularity, the attractiveness of this line calls for new challenges. That's why I'm also addressing you, especially because it's a small adjustment, a small intervention, so that for the 110th anniversary of next year, and even more at the 100th anniversary of World War I, you can attract day tourists, I'm talking about half a million daily tourists who surround this route, which is extremely attractive. The use of the track itself goes not only from Jesenic to Nova Gorica, but further, even to Trieste. Initiatives also come from the Italian side to create this route more user-friendly, to the tourist in this case. So far, we know a number of forms of promoting tourism with this route, but there is always some way that the small intervention of the country should be done to further stimulate this exceptional opportunity that we have. First of all, she needs to be seen as such. In fact, it is tourism that could in some way replace what other industries failed to do. Here we are talking about 158 kilometers of the Bohinj railway and the possibilities for development. Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Peter Gasperšič will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. Dear Member, Mr Matjaž German! It is true that the transport development strategy also covers the rail system in Goriška in the section Regional Railway Upgrade. This set provides for updates of signal-safety and telecommunications devices that enable better traffic management and thus faster traffic development. Then there are updates to the upper structure where the electrification of the Sežana-Anhovo section is envisaged and the section to Vrtojbe. Special attention is also paid to this route of Nova Gorica – Jesenice, which will also be given a special role in the tourist segment, which you have already mentioned, is extremely important, precisely because of this route. Developmentally, these tracks of the mountain region are also involved in the cross-border project Adria A, which produced feasibility studies. Preliminary planning and cost-benefit analysis was carried out for the missing links identified in the light rail area under the Adria A project, which also examines the development of accessibility for the recovery of this Adriatic hinterland. At the Ministry of Infrastructure, we are no doubt aware of the importance of this, I have information, 157 kilometres long section of this regional railway line. Undoubtedly, this route played an important key role, even as you mentioned, on the occasion of last year's acorn, where a certain part of the traffic could then take place along this track. Thus, at the Ministry of Infrastructure, we will strive to provide more systemic means, as I have already mentioned in the previous issue, which we will also use in addition to the needs of state roads for the reconstruction and maintenance of regional railways, and in this way we will allow these routes to be made more accessible to areas that are important for the development of tourism. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Here you are, Mr Matjaž German, a request to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Minister, for your answers. I am satisfied with the Ministry's awareness that this is primarily an opportunity, not a problem. In the future, I will also ask the Ministry of the Economy with a similar question, because it is also a very important participant in the development of this track and tourism as such. Allow me, I mentioned in the introduction that, unlike ever before, I might represent solutions. At the end of October, a consultation was held in Tolmin on this topic. We ourselves know that it is not only the Primorska region, but also the Gorenje region is of great importance and for the development of tourism in these two regions. Indeed, the whole selection of measures has been prepared at this meeting, it is an extremely unwelcome and friendly tourist and tourist offer of the requirements that I will be able to deliver to you in the near future. The initiative on my part, or which I transmit mainly from the participants in this meeting, is to meet in the near future at an operational meeting with representatives of your ministry, Ministry of Economy, Slovenian Tourist Organisation, Director General of the Slovenian Railway Holding and the Travel Guide, d.o.o. In fact, this is mainly about a lot of good will, good adjustments and operationalities, so that in 2016, when we celebrate an important anniversary, and also in 2017, when we mark the 100th anniversary of the end of World War I, we can offer people and tourism more than ever. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Gaspersich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u72	I can only add to this by welcoming such initiatives, so that I am happy to accept and open to such talks and to seek solutions, as effectively as possible, with some rational proposals and solutions, to achieve the greatest possible impact on the well-being and well-being of the economy and Slovenia at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will question the Ministry of Finance Dr Dusan Maramor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u74	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister of Finance! The fact is that the government of Mira Cerar and the Ministry of Finance have decided to amend the law on the strengthening and stability of banks in Slovenia, which directly affects the operation of the so-called bad bank. The main mission of the bad bank before this change and the amendment of the law was to sell claims, and now you are implementing a new activity for the bad bank, namely restructuring companies. Given that restructuring companies on the one hand also means direct management of companies – we know that in Slovenia we also have a Slovenian state holding company that deals with business management. This year, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a strategy on the management of state property. In fact, there are no relations recorded in this strategy, how the Slovenian State Holding and Bad Bank will participate. However, given the mission that the bad bank has so far had to sell claims, I am sure that in the strategy itself, as much as you have covered the SDH and the Company for Bank Claims Management, it has been sufficient. However, given the change in the law, that the bad bank will now also be dealing with the restructuring of businesses, I believe that this change would require an addition and a change in the governance strategy of state assets. I want to know: Is the Ministry of Finance or the Government of Mira Cerar thinking about complementing or modifying the public property management strategy?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State, Dr. Dusan Maramor, will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u76	Thank you very much for the question, honourable Member Mag. Marco Pogačnik. First, maybe a wider framework. None of the amendments introduced by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks directly affects the scope of the so-called capital investments of the country. According to the Slovenian State Holding Act, the capital assets of the State, this term, are only investments owned by the Republic of Slovenia, KAD and SDH. This means that shares or business shares of which the DUTB is the holder are not considered to be part of the country's capital investments under this law, since the ZUKS, which is the change, does not affect whether the Republic of Slovenia, KAD or SDH will acquire new shares of companies, nor will they affect the extent of these State capital investments. Since the country’s capital investment management strategy relates only to so-called capital investments of a country where, as has already been said, investment by DUTB does not belong, there is no need to change this strategy as a result of changes in the ZUKS. The new ZUKS is without prejudice to the core mission of the Bank's Fund and does not change this institution to the task of a new capital shareholder manager, despite the extension of the operating period until the end of 2022. A weak bank must sell its assets during its operations and not be a permanent owner and manager of claims and capital shares, irrespective of the manner in which it acquires or will acquire capital shares, for example, in the process of transferring bad claims to the DUTB as collateral for transferred loans or in the process of restructuring enterprises. All these shares are for sale. However, it will, and this is also in the amendment to the ZUKS, and the DUTB will, in accordance with the proposed provision of this amended law, have to notify SDH of the intended transfer of its share in this company and of the terms and conditions of the sale, before withdrawing its share in a company where the investment of the Republic of Slovenia is in line with the country's capital investment management strategy. SDH will be able to obtain DUTB’s share on the basis of a repurchase or on the basis of a replacement for the share of the Republic of Slovenia in the company in which the management entitlements are exercised by SDH. Therefore, the new ZUKS, as determined by the Government, establishes a higher level of cooperation between DUTB and SDH. Notwithstanding these changes, the ZUKS strategy itself stipulates that within one year of its adoption, the Government will carry out its audit and, in the case of changed economic and other circumstances, on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance to the National Assembly, propose to adopt its amendment. Thus, changes are possible in the strategy itself. If there are significant changes in the SDH investment structure, such changes will also be proposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik, request to complete the response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u78	Dear Minister, I thank you for this answer. In my words, I understood that there is a way of thinking in this direction or that the marriage framework also gives you this option. Dear Minister, I am confident that this amendment and the addition of the Banks Stability Act will in fact become a part of the business manager. Even now, we can see that DUB has more than 33 companies with ownership and that these shares, especially in view of this change of law, are likely to increase in the future. At least it would be extremely important for me personally not to have different interests here, on the one hand of the Slovenian State Holding Company, on the other hand of the Bank's Claims Management Company, and that the Government or the Ministry of Finance should consider supplementing or amending the State Asset Management Strategy as soon as possible, as we know if this restructuring is to take place, last but not least, the Government of Mir Cerar in the 2016 and 2017 budget has allocated some 100 million for these companies. I also expect that some companies to which the Bank Claims Management Company is now in possession of claims will have a later conversion of claims into this equity share and that we will actually get two asset managers on the Slovenian market. But it would be worth thinking about: Why is it that those companies that need restructuring are not transferred to the Slovenian State Holding – this one has this experience so far – and that DUTB is actually carrying out the task for which it was established? This is the sale of claims and the search for active buyers or strategic owners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Dr. Dushan Marble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Of course, a number of issues are being raised here, but the key purpose of this amendment to the ZUKSB and the extension of the DUTB's operation was to maximise the value of these claims or then convertible claims at the time of the sale of the restructured, at least financially restructured undertaking. We have seen this in quite a few cases, and therefore we have decided to go into a change in the extension of the deadline, which gives the possibility that there is no forced sale at lower values, liquidation values, and at the same time instruments that allow the company to restructure and sell more expensive. Of course, if this is properly managed and for the purpose of which DUTB was also established, the proceeds from this sale will be large enough to cover all the bonds issued to banks and at the same time recover capital and have a return of 8 % as originally intended. In this way, it was intended in particular to increase the value of the assets it had in the management of the DUTB and to give it instruments to increase the value as much as possible. However, if it comes to those companies where DUTB has claims, on the other hand, they are strategic companies in the strategy and managed by SDH, this operation must be coordinated. If any changes to the strategy are needed, we will also propose such changes in such cases.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Mr Andrej Šircelj, who will ask the question of a Member of Parliament to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister for Foreign Affairs! I admit that perhaps one week ago this question would have been asked differently; otherwise I would have asked mainly because we are witnessing a number of events that affect the activity of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and also your role in this. The question concerns the migration crisis, the so-called migrant crisis and the role of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, especially given that the migration crisis itself is also the cause or reason for the various other political measures taken by both the European Union and individual Member States. That's why I want to know: What is your assessment that the outflow, so to speak, will stop migrants in other countries or that Austria and Germany will start returning people back to the state of Slovenia? In this case, what will the state of Slovenia do with migrants not to become so-called pockets? Is the policy already in place or is it prepared for Slovenia not to become a pocket – I will not talk about strategies because I think we have too many of these – and, after all, what the President of the country said in Parliament; in short, to set the ceiling for migrants? What's the deal with other countries? The second question is, we cannot pass today on the terrorist activity that is now in Europe: What are the measures or coordination between Member States to prevent these extremisms and to strengthen security in Europe? Third question - given that we are part of the European Union: What role does the European Union play in other international organisations? For example, in the United Nations, the European Commission failed to obtain the so-called United Nations permission to intervene in the Mediterranean, while, for example, France was immediately granted "authorisation" to fight extremists and terrorists in Syria. These are a number of questions that also require an answer from the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Karl Viktor Erjavec will give you the answer. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greeting, Madam President, and I also welcome all Members of Parliament and Members! Thank you for your question. It is true that it is slightly altered in view of the current situation, which I consider to be correct. First of all, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been monitoring the situation all the time, so, as regards the refugee crisis, we have been in contact with various countries, in particular countries on the Balkan path and with Austria, Italy, including Germany. Why is that important? It is particularly important that we be able to act in a timely manner if there is a change in migration policy in any of these countries. In this regard, let me say that a number of activities have been carried out on my part. We have had quite a few councils of foreign ministers, but I must say that it is always put on the councils of foreign ministers if the issue of migration is even an external policy issue that falls within the competence of foreign ministers. I must say that I have always advocated in Brussels and Luxembourg that this issue also falls within the competence of foreign ministers, because it is a security issue. Despite the fact that the position is clear that migration is about one topic, terrorism is about another, but we can see that these two issues are intertwined. Last but not least, in the terrorist action of 13 November in Paris, one of the terrorists came through this wave of migration. I must say that now that it is a meeting of foreign ministers, there is the belief that it is a European problem, that it is a problem, which also falls within the competence of the foreign ministries. As far as my specific activities are concerned, let me say that I had talks in Rome, in Vienna and also several phone conversations with other foreign ministers. Here I would mention in particular the Hungarian Foreign Minister, the French Foreign Minister and also the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Serbia, Macedonia. Bilateral meetings have also been set up. As far as Rome is concerned, I must say that Italian Foreign Minister Paolo Gentiloni and I discussed in particular the situation in Slovenia, what Italian assistance could be like, the deployment of their police officers or carbiners. In particular, we have revised the scenario if, of course, there is a dispersion of this migratory wave that could have negative consequences for Italy. We also touched on issues related to the possibility of changing the migration route from Croatia, Slovenia to Austria, towards Albania and across the Adriatic Sea to Italy. I can tell you that the Italian side is ready for all these scenarios. With the Austrian Foreign Minister, I had an 11th meeting. 11. 2015, in particular, we discussed the security situation in Shentyl and how to better manage this migration wave. It is also very important what is happening on the Austrian-German border. The assurances were made that these migrants would be taking place for the time being, but I think that there will be a key meeting on Sunday between the European Union and Turkey, but that some decisions will be taken there, particularly in order to reduce this migratory wave. If you will give me an opportunity with a further question, I would like to say a few words about terrorism, the activities of our ministry in this regard, and also what the international situation is at this point. But I must say that it is such a complex question that it is difficult to answer all these questions in five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u85	Mag. Andrej Shircelj, you have a request to complete your response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Minister, I agree that this is a difficult issue and also a broad question, so I think that we should talk more about this in the National Assembly. It's another matter. In fact, the cause or consequence of the migration crisis is all. We are also talking about Europe and I would also like to ask for the role of Europe or the European Union as it is today. Is this some new mini-schengen now? What is Slovenia's concrete response to the new mini-schengen initiative? The second is, of course, the role of Europe in the UN, in the United Nations. I think this role here is too weak; it is simply too weak in the sense that the European Commission is out of line there. The European Commission is also not effective enough because it is not effective enough or because it does not have mechanisms to be more effective, each country reacts in its own way. Who's going to coordinate now? Is this the European Commission that will coordinate, or is it the right place? I see that this is all more based on bilateral discussions here, which is not even wrong; but I am interested in evaluations. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs in connection with bilateral talks, you also mentioned Serbia, Italy and so on. What about Croatia?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u87	Mr Karl Viktor Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs, will provide an additional reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u88	Thank you for that supplementary question. As far as Croatia is concerned, let me say that there is a transitional situation when we have a post-election period and the government is not formed, so it is agreed with the Prime Minister that he is having direct talks with their current and current Prime Minister who is carrying out ongoing business with Mr Zoran Milanovic. As far as the role of the European Union in the United Nations is concerned, it is necessary to know that key players are members of the Security Council and that the European Union does not perform there, but there are individual countries such as France, Britain. Therefore, within the framework of the United Nations, this role of the European Union is not so strongly present because key decision makers are permanent members of the Security Council and non-permanent members, some of whom are members of the European Union; in this case, for example, Spain, Luxembourg. As far as the migration crisis is concerned, terrorism is certainly the result of the crisis in Syria, both in Iraq and Libya, where we are facing the collapse of the country. As far as Syria is concerned, I can say that in the last world of foreign ministers, last Monday, we had a conversation with the special envoy of the Staffan de Mistur, who is evaluating these Vienna talks – a third round – as an important step forward. It is necessary to know that two or three months ago all these actors could not be obtained at the same table. This is said in addition to the United States, France, Russia, Germany, as well as the so-called regional actors such as Iran, Saudi Arabia, Turkey. It assesses that the talks are going in the right direction, but of course they are going too slowly, because until there is a political solution there, I think it will be difficult to talk about the absence of pressure on Europe on the migration wave. Not to mention Africa, which is another such migrant hotspot. As you know, this EU-Africa conference was in Malta, where they agreed on certain measures to prevent African migrants from being pressured against the European Union. Here, too, is this operation in the Mediterranean, which is now in phase two. It's about Operation Sofia, which brings results. Italy is not under any migratory pressure at this time. I think we should do something similar for the Balkan migration route.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u89	Mr Tomaž Lisec will raise a question of the delegation to the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Maramor, and to the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnikar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u90	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Dear Minister Maramor and Koprivnik above all, a lovely greeting! I'm probably not the first and not the last one to find that 12 days after I asked the question, things have changed or in this case have become concrete. I wanted to ask you about the preparations for the 2016 and 2017 budgets regarding the average for municipalities for 2016 as well as how you continue to represent the functioning of the municipalities. But we know what the deal is. On the one hand, the Minister of Finance speaks about how public finances should be taken care of, and on the other hand we adopt a law where we give municipalities new legal obligations. And on the third hand, this minister, who so much wants to worry about public finances, gives the public sector 132 million. This, in my view, is a key issue in this negotiation. You have easily agreed with the public sector on 132 million, and on the other hand, you have also brought to the National Assembly the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System, you have imposed on the municipalities – according to my calculations and this is also supposed to be public data – 13 million. According to my information, Minister-respected, this difference between 519 euro, which was the average, and 522 euro, which was accepted by the coalition members in the budget and by ZIPRO, is not even enough for these new tasks that you have given them, where the investment and development potential of the municipalities, which you so much do not like by certain members of the coalition, and contrary to them, I claim that the economic growth that the Government so much likes to refer to is still the result of last year's local elections, when the municipalities, especially the mayors, have invested a lot, of course, they have taken care of their electorates and their votes before the elections, and the accounts have also come after the elections. I would like to ask the Minister, given that the average for 2016 has so far been €522: Can the municipalities expect any systemic solutions in 2016, perhaps a new law, the Zuyf Congregations, or will anything else happen in the field of local self-government, so that municipalities can more easily carry out statutory tasks and, on the other hand, even though they are not electoral years ahead of them, they can also plan investment and development projects? So much for the intro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u91	Thank you very much. I give the floor first to the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnikar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u92	Chairman, thank you. Dear Member, thank you for this question. If you'll excuse me, I'll only answer with a few concrete facts that I think will best explain this relationship. The municipalities are transferring about a billion dollars, and for public servants about 4.2 billion. If you look at the increase in costs and this offer given to the municipalities, the shares in these transfers are actually completely comparable. In addition, from 2006 to 2014, the municipalities increased their employment by 13 %, increased their share of the gross domestic product from 2008 to 2013 from 4,94 % to 5,58 %, which means that the average of this agreement represents only a good half of the total revenue for the municipalities and the other half for the municipalities with their original revenues. In doing so, I think that we have met eleven times this year, that the Government has provided its offer from EUR 519 to the final EUR 525, which has greatly increased and also covered all those obligations that the municipalities have stated, including increasing the possibility of indebtedness, providing additional funds with a favourable interest rate, will address the difficulties in taking decisions to compensate for the use of the building land, and will also allow funds to be allocated under Article 21 to pay off the debts of municipal investments. At the same time, we have agreed with the congregations on a number of legal changes, some of the regulations we have already made are partially implemented. However, it should also be noted that these options, which have been amended by regulations and regulations as well as by laws, also require the municipalities to actually use these options. At the same time, we have made available a range of tools, from public procurement, reverse auctions, software available to the country. So we went to the congregations hard. Even with these offers on the table today, we feel that the functioning of the congregations will not be compromised. The data I mentioned above also show that the actual situation has improved significantly in terms of other parts of the public sector of municipalities and has not deteriorated as usual.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u93	I give the floor to Dr. Dusan Marble, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u94	Dear Member Tomaž Lisec! Let me relate to what was said by Boris Koprivnik. In negotiations with municipalities, the government has come from an established average of €519 per capita this year and has adjusted its proposal to €522 per capita. This represents the extent of the appropriate consumption of municipalities at the same level as this year, since the proposed average is the same as the average as for 2015. The proposed amount was justified by the calculated impact on the expenditure of municipalities in the coming years. On the one hand, the assessment of savings in the costs of the work of municipalities was taken into account due to the measures mentioned by Minister Koprivnikar to reduce labour costs and, on the other hand, to the effects of the agreement with the unions mentioned by you. According to the assessment of both sides, the effects of the systemic and implementing amendments to the regulations that reduce the cost of community work are EUR 20.3 million per year, without taking into account the approximately EUR 5 million effects in the already implemented measures already taken to reduce the average from 525 to 519 in this year. Some of these effects, estimated at around €8.1 million, are potential – as Minister Koprivnikar has already said, they will be felt by the municipalities if they have investments – and other effects are worth €12.2 million. Taking these effects into account would make it possible to reduce the average. On the other hand, account has been taken of the increase in the obligations of municipalities to increase public sector wages, as you mentioned, by around €13.5 million, which means that the effects are virtually identical. In an effort to go to the municipalities as far as possible and to reach an agreement, the government, in the final round of negotiations, offered the municipalities an average of €525, while maintaining that the municipalities are only entitled to the amount of the appropriate spending and not to the surplus over the appropriate consumption. The proposed solution was rejected by the municipalities, while the investment transfer agreement was also rejected.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u96	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive answers. I agree, Mr Koprivnik, that everything in the municipalities is not optimal. From case to case, we could go where the municipal administration is rich, where an investment has been made wrongly. But we also have in the country so that many ministries and state bodies are rich in human resources and many ministries have in the past, and even now it is happening, has been calculated in individual investments that have financial effects. I always hear about how the government has adopted EUR 522 despite efforts. If the Government were as kind as it was to the public sector on the one hand, given that we know that in the past, the Government has unilaterally, as in this case, agreed or set EUR 522, I wonder why in this good desire, in cooperation with the municipalities, it would not once again violate the agreement with the Association and the Community of Municipalities and in favour of the amendment by the Members of the Group of Non-Aligned Members in the amount of EUR 525, that is, those requirements that you had put on the table, and probably all local officials would also be satisfied. On the other hand, Minister Maramor said, "Averagingly the same effects." Some 20 million of whom, if you know, we discussed quite a lot in 2015 about the so-called Zuyfu Congregations and systemic solutions for overstretched numbers and, on the other hand, the municipalities will have to give 13 million due to new legal obligations. In short, the point is that whatever they did in 2015, the effect is nothing. Unfortunately.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Boris Koprivnikar, Minister of Public Administration, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u98	I would hardly agree with you that the effect is zero because we have assessed and measured the effects in millions. And there's something very important. This method of cooperation that we have established with the municipalities when proposing concrete measures, and we have also been very, very sensitive to proposals from the municipal side, I think that we have taken as many as 12 of them into measures that we have then taken to the ministries, and we also want to continue to improve the business environment also for the functioning of the community and to reduce costs. However, with regard to the business and operation of the municipalities themselves, I must agree with you that the differences are exceptional. Some act extremely rationally and exemplaryly, some acting in the opposite direction. However, the numbers we operate on and explain are numbers that speak on average. And this is also important that we do not talk about better or worse cases, but talk about the impact on the whole functioning of local self-government. Of course, we wish to ourselves, as we monitor and analyse, but also require corrections in a narrower state administration, where irrationalities occur, so that these irrationalities are effectively eliminated in the work of the local community. For this purpose, we have made quite a few effective tools available, and I hope that they will be used in this way, and that they will also acquire more resources that they can spend on investment maintenance or investment transfers in addition to what is already available through existing funding.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Dr. Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u100	Thank you very much. If I may continue here. In total, 26 measures have been identified up to the last round of negotiations, of which 22 are already or will be implemented by the end of this year with these effects, as has been said and 8 additional measures have been identified, so 12 are still to be implemented in 2016. Regardless of the fact that the agreement has not been reached, and if it were an agreement, it has its value, and this value is 3 euros of average, we will continue, and we have committed ourselves to it. In the final round of negotiations, we have pledged that even if they do not agree, we will continue to take measures to reduce the costs of municipalities, because this is the right direction. I'd like to say one more thing. Averages are expected to cover these current costs. For more than half of municipalities, the average of €522 does not require spillage from other sources into running costs and can cover. So these are the differences between the congregations. The vast majority of municipalities cover this from the average proposed amount of EUR 522.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec, you have a request for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on your response at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u102	That's right, Madam Vice President. We have a law, and we have a formula. Following this formula, the average of €652 is estimated to be 636, so that it may also ask for specific information in this debate. I agree that the municipalities need to be given a better business environment, that the next phase may also be for the Ministry of Public Administration to cope with the efficiency of employees in municipal administrations. But according to my information, Minister, it would be right to say that in the debate if you would, of course, support it by the coalition Members, whether they really hold information that changes are being prepared at the Ministry, where local self-government is supposed to be put somewhere even more in the corner than it has been so far. I think it is right to hold a debate where we all decide together, including Members, not just the government we want to be funding the municipalities in the coming years, how the role of local self-government should also be defined in cooperation with the National Assembly. As we all know, it's based on finance. I think that the debate on local self-government and the average for the next few years is urgently needed in the National Assembly, because I still say that the money that comes into the municipalities is much more radical, investment and developmental for their operations than the state does for money. I propose that we hold a thorough debate on this in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly today in the framework of the vote. The question will be raised by Dr. Matej Vatovec to the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u104	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Madam Secretary! Surely you are familiar with the problem of the Swedish ironworks in Trieste, which is referred to by locals as "the factory of death". It is an old iron-processing plant, which is thus located in the very centre of the city in the middle of the Gulf of Miljska, and it has certainly a negligible cross-border impact. Residents in the municipalities of Ankaran, Koper and also in Izola and Piran are experiencing a high level of pollution from this factory, which is also reflected in high concentrations of silicon, aluminium, calcium, iron and manganese particles, which are, after all, inhaled. Recent studies have shown that there is a high rate of disease in this area mainly for tumours and respiratory problems. The levels of hazardous substances have been exceeded many times and toxic emissions into the air and sea. These are the direct effects of the Ferriera and other heavy industries in this area. Let me reiterate that this is a rather long-standing plant that has a new owner since last year, which, when purchasing the management of the marketing community, has committed itself to making environmental measures their priority. The ironworks also expired a time ago with an environmental permit, which was also temporarily extended for six months. Given that this is a question that is not only a question of the factory in Trieste, but also an issue that affects citizens and citizens on this side of the border, I am particularly interested in the people of Ankara, Kopra and Izola and Pirana: Has the Ministry of the Environment and Space addressed this case and also taken any decisions or procedures on how to address this issue? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The Minister of Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, will give an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u106	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, too, Mr Vatovac, for this question. The fact is that the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia is carrying out continuous air quality measurements at the Koper measuring station and there is an increased ozone concentration at this location, while the concentration of other pollutants also monitored at this site is below the limit values. The Slovenian Environment Agency, with a mobile station, also measured air quality at two locations along the Slovenian-Italian border, in the area of then the Municipality of Koper, the location of Croatia, the measurements were made in 2004 and the location of Lovran nad Ankaran, where the measurements were carried out at the end of 2007 and at the beginning of 2008. Both measurement campaigns were carried out at the initiative of local factors, including political parties and at the request of the then Minister for the Environment, in particular with a view to establishing the level of pollution and also to examining the impact of emissions from the Trieste area on Slovenian territory. These measurements showed that the concentrations of pollutants measured were relatively low, except for ozone. Ozone concentrations are highest in Slovenia, but not due to emissions from a single source, due to emissions from the Slovenian coast, Trieste and transport of pollutants for longer or longer distances. Iron Schedenj is a major source of emissions, various pollutants, but unfortunately it is not the only source in this space. In the vicinity there is a cement plant, a municipal waste incinerator, a large oil-derived warehouse, and a few smaller resources. Guest traffic in this part of Trieste is a source of nitrogen oxides and hydrocarbons. It is iron from locations where we carried out external air quality measurements, 4.5 kilometers from the town of Croatia and 3.5 kilometers from the town of Lovran. This is now kind of a description of the situation in which this ironworks has worked in the past. On our part, I can say that we are not running any proceedings in this regard, i.e. no cross-border procedure. Arso doesn't run any proceedings either. In view of what you have said, Slovenia can be expected to participate in the event of a cross-border procedure, which, if this happens, we will inform you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec, you have a request to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u108	Thank you. Minister, in the beginning you said that the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia is carrying out continuous measurements, and then you referred to measurements made between 2004 and 2008. The fact is that these constant measurements are made from automatic stations that sometimes measure the amount of particles in the air. But I think the problem here is very different. It is a hardware store, which depends on time and other circumstances sometimes influences, sometimes not. But the fact is that also the Italian institutions and these private institutions, mentioned by you, whose studies were commissioned by municipalities and by other interested communities, have actually seen some increased amount of these particles. In this regard, the main problem is that the municipalities and the public concerned must rely on some private institutions that may not be so effective, perhaps have less knowledge or poorer technology, and above all the problem is that they have no normative weight. So, their studies, their measurements don't weigh as much as Arso would have. After seven years, I think the situation has changed, and the ironworks has not been restored in some way at this time. It would therefore be appropriate for the Ministry, for example, to ask Arso to carry out emergency monitoring in this area and to make sure that there are reasons why Slovenia, as a country, also intervenes in this case. Last but not least, because of the Italian pressure, Slovenia has closed up the facility of the Cypriot company Kemplas in this area, which was a strong contaminant, and in fact the status of life and health in this area has been improved.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The reply will be completed by the Minister for Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u110	Thank you. It is difficult now to listen to these statements in the second part if you mention that the ironworks no longer have an environmental permit, which means that the environmental permit will have to be obtained in accordance with the rules applicable in the European Union. And I find it difficult to understand that an environmental permit would also be obtained in Italy if it did not have the appropriate technology. In this part, only this information can be obtained. Now to carry out air analyses when the ironworks do not work, if we have seen only an increase in ozone in the past with these analyses, in this sense there is no need. However, in terms of pollution in the environment, procedures can be followed between countries, especially those where cross-border influence is involved, and the procedure with the neighbouring country begins. In these cases, we always take appropriate action in our ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u111	Mr Matthew Tashner Vatovec, you have a motion for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on your proposal at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u112	Thank you. I didn't say the factory didn't work and he didn't have permission. This authorisation has expired and has been exceptionally extended for six months. Those of us who drive or live in this area, we can see that it works with full steam, 24 hours a day. That, if the emission values are not right, this permission will also be lost, I have some doubts. We know that the interests of capital tend to prevail over such norms, so that I think that this is a serious issue primarily for the inhabitants of this area and in some ways I do not feel that a real message would now come from the ministries to show concern for the people in this area. I still believe that we could take at least this step to ensure that this urgent monitoring is carried out. Finally, it is within the competence of Ars and also in some way meaningful and for the benefit of those who live in this area. Because I think that this is actually a rather serious issue, although we could say that there are more important issues in the country at the moment, I suggest that we hold a general debate on this issue in spite of all of the next regular session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly today in the framework of the vote. Mr Tillen Bozič will ask the Minister of Environment and Space Mrs Irena Majcen a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. Dear Madam Secretary! As part of my work in the office, I often face issues related to decommissioning and cleaning of municipal waters. The current regulation on decommissioning and cleaning of municipal waters is stricter than the rules of the European Union, causing disproportionately high costs to municipalities and citizens, in many cases leading to irrational investments in municipal infrastructure. For example, the European Union provides for a common cleaning plant or a sewer connection in the case of 20,000 units and only 50 Slovenian regulations. Our regulation also narrowly favours a certain type of cleaning equipment, which, at least as far as the aim or result is concerned, we are talking about the quality of what actually comes out of such a cleaning plant does not necessarily produce a better result. In this regard, you have already announced the changes and I am interested in: How are you progressing with the recast of the regulation that sets out these requirements for decommissioning, municipal waste treatment? How would we come to one more reasonable framework than what is now in force? What changes are envisaged with regard to the current deadline for adapting municipal infrastructure and related penalties? Will this period be extended? If the answer is yes — until when? Are there any changes to the admissibility of other types of treatment plants, such as tridirectional types of sewage and others, which allow for the same or even better results of treatment of wastewater than in the case of currently permissible treatments? And lastly, I ask you if you can also present any other improvements in this regard that would facilitate the lives and costs of both municipalities and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Ms Irena Majcen, Minister for the Environment and Space, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u116	Thank you, honourable Member, Mr Tillen Christmas. As we have already announced, the Ministry has drafted a new regulation on decommissioning and cleaning of municipal water this year. This draft was publicised in June and July, and now, given the fact that a lot of comments were made, these comments were considered. There have been meetings with key representatives of the interested public, such as the Community and the Association of Slovene Municipalities, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Municipal Economy, the Mountain Association, the Slovenian Water Protection Society, the Chamber of Agriculture and Economy of Slovenia, and thus, by the end of this week, the proposal for a regulation is still in final form, which means that it will be forwarded to the government by the end of this week. Interestingly, the recast of this Regulation has revealed a number of solutions that, even after so many years, if I tell you the truth after 20 years, were not all understandable, not all prepared. We met exactly yesterday in an interview with the inspection services. But all of this leads us to believe that this regulation will have fewer problems than was possible in the past by this Regulation. In extending the transitional deadlines for the adjustment of municipal infrastructure, agromeliorations of more than 2 000 population units and agromeliorations of less than 2 000 population units and municipal waste water is already excreted in the public sewage network, the deadline does not change. The deadline is 31. 12. 2015 and it is laid down in the Accession Treaty of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Union and, of course, cannot be amended. The transitional period for agromeliorations, i.e. for these associations of houses, which are less than 2 000 population units and the municipal waste water is not yet released into the public sewage network, shall be extended to 31. 12, for agromeliorations in a water protection or sensitive area up to 2021 and for other agromeliorations not in a water protection or sensitive area up to 2023. There is also an extension of the transitional period for owners of existing facilities, which must either regulate their own costs or ensure individual arrangements, up to 31. 12. 2021, if such an object is without any cleaning, otherwise at the first reconstruction of the facility. With regard to the allowable cleaning technology and the use of the flow point, I explain that the proposal for a regulation does not provide or prohibit individual cleaning technologies. Any technology that ensures the achievement of emission limit values may be used. The proposal for a regulation also lays down precisely the conditions for the use of a spillage, namely, a spill as a separate unit is not suitable for the treatment of municipal waste water, and the use of a spillage can be achieved if the waste water from the spillway is removed through a further cleaning unit. This further unit may be filtration, infiltration, including a plant cleaning plant. Such a combination of units is treated or considered as a small utility and may be used for one-bedroom, two-bedroom or short-term accommodation buildings and are outside these agglomerations. With regard to the question of any other changes that would facilitate the lives and costs of both municipalities and citizens, I explain that in the preparation of the proposal for a regulation, the obligations of the operator of small municipal cleaning facilities with a capacity of less than 50 population units, as well as the obligations of the owners of facilities relating to the storage of data and documents, the information of the public service provider and so on, have been re-examined. In view of the rules so far, some reliefs are included in the proposal for a regulation. [[sign for the end of the debate]] We're out of time.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Tillen Christmas, you have a request to complete the answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u118	Since the secretary has already hinted that she's running out of time to answer. I think that practically all the questions I asked very directly have been answered. That is how I wish her the best in adopting this regulation and that it will indeed address these problems that have arisen. You have also said well about this work about cooperation with the congregations and various interested associations, that discussions have taken place here. From my meetings at the office, I somehow came to the conclusion that the general public might not have been sufficiently informed. So here's just a hint that you might be strengthening it now, given that you're in the final stage, because I think you have quite a few good things to say. And last but not least, if you can finish that sentence where time stopped you in half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u119	Thank you very much. I give the floor again to Mrs Irena Majcen, Minister for the Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u120	Thank you for that comment. I agree with you that in preparing these final solutions we were less willing to communicate here. The fact is that there are still some comments in the Interdepartmental Treatment, this is what we would like to do until the end, and after the adoption by the Government, we will also inform the Slovenian public of all their solutions. However, as is usually the case in rescues, the completeness of contentment is never achieved. Surely some will find certain shortcomings in these solutions. We are therefore also involved in the verification of agri-meliorations with a total load of less than 2 000 population units and in the requirements for the prescribed level of cleaning of municipal waste water – even in this area, some reliefs are included in the proposal for a regulation, in particular for agro-meliorations between 50 and 500 population units, as well as requirements for additional treatment of waste water. The obligations of public service providers have also been verified, namely, the information and reporting records requirements are designed to remove unnecessary financial burdens while ensuring proper monitoring and monitoring of the performance of public service obligations. In carrying out the public service obligations, however, the municipalities will have a very important role to play. It is also necessary to prepare any changes to existing programmes, and this is the part that awaits municipalities after the adoption of the regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert will ask the rapporteur a question to the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Maramor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u122	Thank you very much. The Minister and the ministers! Mr. Marble! As of September, Slovenia has been facing a migration problem. Some 260,000 illegal migrants have entered Slovenia since mid-October. Here we can only exclude those 85 who have applied for asylum, well, of which Slovenia has then left almost half. Since yesterday evening alone, an additional 5,000 illegal migrants have entered Slovenia. Data on the daily basis show that the migratory wave does not yet intend to calm down. Our country is also operating under these conditions. It is a large number of funds that we are allocating both for accommodation, nutrition, health care, technical form and, above all, for human resources. There is also an additional problem that individuals have already been overburdened to the point that there are hospital stocks, which means that these missing staff should also be replaced. I'm asking you: What is the total cost of the country as a whole, says all the segments that go to the expense of the migration problem, and what happens to the financial assistance promised to Slovenia? In what way do the calculations take place or when can Slovenia in some way hope for this money?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u123	The answer will be given by the Minister of Finance, Dr. Dusan Maramor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u124	Dear and distinguished Member Anja Bah Žibert! In order to record the costs, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of the Interior and the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia have developed a special instruction on cost recording. On the basis of this instruction, all the departments involved shall report the costs incurred to the Ministry of the Interior, which shall send the summary report twice a month to the Ministry of Finance. On the basis of the report prepared, the Ministry of Finance shall draw up a proposal for a reallocation from the current budgetary reserve to the relevant budgetary user. The reallocation is justified if the budgetary user no longer has the resources available within his financial plan and there are additional costs which the budgetary user could not have foreseen in its financial plan. In accordance with this instruction, the Ministry of the Interior has sent us four reports covering the reporting period from August to 15. 11. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The reports cover costs such as reception, accommodation, supply of migrants, consumption material, tent rental, WC cabins, etc. I have more to say if you'd be interested. Diaries and supplements related to field work, night work and the like are also covered. It should be noted, however, that these costs do not cover regular labour costs. So all of these costs without regular labour costs are totaled up to 15. 11. 2015 amounted to around €8.7 million. If we take that into account, it's up to 15. 11. 2015 Slovenia crossed police data from almost 217 migrants, at the cost of the migrant per day 40 euros and 10 cents. Addressing migration issues is within the jurisdiction of the State and therefore all eligible costs arising from the regulated migration problem will also be settled by the State to the municipalities. In accordance with the agreement between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Interior, the RS Administration for Protection and Resolution is responsible for collecting, certifying and reimbursed costs to local communities. To the extent that these costs have not yet been reported to the Ministry of the Interior, their report will be the basis for paying the costs of municipalities affected by the migration crisis. In addition to these costs, it is estimated that the information is not yet complete that the costs of rail and bus services totalling around EUR 2 and a half million have also been incurred. That's up to 15. 11. This Decision shall enter into force on the This year, within the framework of the State budget, spending rights are guaranteed for this purpose from the so-called integral budget lines. Given the eligibility of the costs, they will be partially covered by the funds obtained in the DU and partly by the reallocation between budgetary users. Of course, part of the costs in relation to payment deadlines will also fall in 2016. In addition, in the 2015 budget, it is possible to count on the potential funding of bilateral donations from domestic and foreign donors. The Development Bank of the Council of Europe has thus established a special fund for refugees and migrants to assist the CEP Member States most burdened by the current migration crisis. On 29 October Slovenia requested the approval of aid from this fund for the purchase of equipment, mobile accommodation, mobile toilets, van, truck for the transport of mobile accommodation, transport services, train, bus and certain administrative costs. The internal authorities, CEP, examined the application on 5 November and approved a grant of €1.5 million. The grant agreement was signed on 16 November. In addition to this donation, the CEP will grant an additional EUR 500 000 to the International Organisation for Migration for its operation in the territory of Slovenia. On 5 November, the European Commission already granted us €10.17 million of emergency funds to deal with the influx of refugees into Slovenia. Funding will help Slovenian authorities manage the flow of people and ensure the needs of new refugees. Financial assistance will be intended to finance measures to increase the presence of police at the Slovenian-Croatian border, improve the first reception capacity for asylum seekers, increase accommodation capacity in Slovenia by around 7 000 500 places and cover the costs of accommodation for police posted from other EU Member States. The exceptional funds from the Funds will be received by Slovenia in addition to the funds already approved for the implementation of the regular national programmes under the following seven-year perspective. But the rest can be [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, you have a request to complete the answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Minister, for your answer. I am not clear because you were very fast because I wrote a little bit down, but at the moment I thought you said that Slovenia would get more money than it currently spent on migrants. That's probably gonna be hard to hold on to, but maybe some amount has been counted twice. However, look, the fact is, this is what you yourself said when you adopted the budget, that Slovenia is still not on the so-called safe financial side, it is said that we are not above the water. In these migratory flows, neither Germany nor Austria can be compared, but it can be compared with another country where this so-called Balkan flow is taking place. The fact is that individual countries, because we are talking about illegal migrants, do not know what their financial picture is, that some have more than €10 000 with them, and that individual countries are somehow charging these transport costs to those who, of course, can pay for it. If we look at our Slovenian citizens who live below the poverty line, they must pay for such costs themselves. Let me also remind you of the medicines on the so-called payroll, and citizens are also paying for it themselves. Here is another question that you may have on your list, and you have not highlighted it, is economic damage. In those days, the Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior also met with the municipalities and there is a problem concerning economic damage. Are these funds included in that amount?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Dr. Dusan Maramor will provide an additional explanation for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u128	Thank you very much. It really looks like we got more than we used to. But I would like to remind you that, for the first time, we have to add up 8.7 million plus 2.5 million for transportation costs, so this is total, and that was up to 15. 11. While we have another month and a half of this influx of migrants, as you yourself mentioned, which are daily relatively large, so we can count on it to be significantly more than we have received. On the other hand, these are appropriations, which have eligible costs, and the other costs are unjustified. Therefore, we will only be able to benefit from the costs which are, above all, eligible costs for European funds. The same applies to funds from the Bank of the Council of Europe for Development. At the same time, I would like to mention that this is one area that is relatively very much touching us, and this is the area of eligible costs. Our costs are different, such as the costs of asylum and the integration costs of those then granted asylum in each country. Most of these European funds are intended for this purpose, for asylum seekers or for integration into society, and in this way European regulations are also recorded that costs are primarily those eligible costs for this purpose, not for such a transition as we have through the country. So that certain costs are out of the question and we have relatively large costs. And in the negotiations between Parliament and the European Commission on the budget for the following year, according to Ecofin, where I myself raised this issue, it is stipulated that for two billion it is considered that they must be fully flexible in covering the various costs of emigration. So not as basic funds are, but two billion have been put aside, and now we are talking to the European Commission about how to design a regulation so that we can also get our costs back. So much for that. Economic damage was the next issue. Economic damage is also described, and when we have censuses, we will decide how to recover economic damage in the following year. For the next year, as we said, we have €123 million in the budget for various purposes and we are counting on this to be sufficient. If not, however, we have such flexibility in ZIPRS that we can essentially address these costs within the 2016 budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u129	Anja Bah Žibert, you have a motion for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on your proposal at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Madam President. Now this second answer has given the real picture, it's something that wishes are, and something that's real is said, even when we're talking about justified and unjustifiable costs. I propose that a public debate is actually held in the National Assembly. I think you should support her, too, given that you are always stressing once and for all that there is a need to be careful about the financial situation. The fact is that they will pay for all of this in the majority of taxpayers, and it is right to know about every euro where it goes and, in particular, whether it went rightly. Finally, you need to know that economic damage is not only what is currently visible physically, but it is also those who are facing empty capacities today, which in some ways are also occupied in the tourist form. And something else that we think is fundamental – is it because we have taken individual measures in a country, as the so-called fence that is not a fence, and since we have repeatedly warned that we should do so as soon as possible, have we paid higher prices because of these delays in the market? In short, in general, I think it is important that we hold this debate to see what can be done. I still believe and believe that in Slovenia, too, we should look at who are the migrants who can certainly pay their own costs, and that it is necessary to make it clear whether they are refugees or migrants. These data seem somehow worrying also from who in Slovenia requested of those 85 for asylum. You will soon find out how many of those actually coming from the crisis zone or from the war zone. Almost nothing. I think that this must certainly be done with some debate. Given that we still have a very broad-based so-called migrant law, I think this debate is still necessary, and it also goes in the direction that these changes to the law should be introduced as soon as possible. We have already taken a step in the Slovenian Democratic Party here with the introduction of the so-called migrant law, so that I really hope that we can take a step forward together and see what else can be done about the costs and where they may need to be allocated and where something can be saved.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly today in the framework of the vote. Mrs Ludmila Novak will raise the question to the Minister without a department responsible for Slovenians in the place and in the world, Mr Gorazd Žmavc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u132	Dear Mr. Minister for Slovenians, in place and in the world! You may also be surprised to visit Slovenians around the world and tell you what they know about Slovenia, how they monitor the events in Slovenia, how well they are informed. Of course, modern communication means enable them to do so and many are really on track with everything that is going on in Slovenia. The office also publishes the newspaper and also has an online portal. Once there were more newspaper numbers, the magazine Moja Slovenija was published monthly. Now I'm asking you, given that different information is coming: Are Slovenians satisfied with the current way of information via the Slovenians.si website, and My Slovenia, are they satisfied with this way? And the other thing: How much money do you actually spend on the magazine and this web portal? It is no secret that Members also receive anonymous letters in which they wonder how much funding is to be made for this, but at the same time they believe that these parties are too cheap to provide enough information for such a large sum of funds. So I would like to hear from you firsthand what the truth is, whether the Slovenians are satisfied with this new way, and how much money you spend each year.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Gorazd Žmavc, Minister without a Resource, is responsible for Slovenians in place and around the world.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u134	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, distinguished Ambassador Ljudmila Novak! Your question, which you have asked me, I consider to be substantive and broader, because you are actually asking the basic question that I have always before me, how many Slovenians are evaluating our work, our regular contacts, our professional meetings, and, above all, what is the response to the resources, the media and all those questions where we are also opening new solutions, and these are also portals, orientations. I think it is in this light in our interest, in particular to look for these tools and solutions in the perspective that are only at the beginning when we are talking about the portal, but it must be exclusively for answers and responsibility, whether we are succeeding not only in mutual information with society, but also in the process around networking itself. I must say that these interviews I conducted in these operational visits give some encouragement that this is the beginning of the journey. There's no real content yet. We cannot define ourselves only on some editorial and some subjects, but we must actually open up space for these young generations and especially for the topics they are interested in, through these portals. Secondly, I must say that if I extend this effort as an office a little bit, that at the time of the launch of the mandate we took over, 25% of the funds, which was a pretty big blow to us in the beginning, and with the reform and development programme for the operation and financing of Slovenian communities outside the Republic of Slovenia, we have put particular emphasis on autonomous Slovenian minorities in neighbouring countries. That is why our first actions were primarily aimed at stabilising funding, where we were forced to drastically reduce support for both the applicants in Slovenia and also to reduce support for many civil organisations, where it was known that we had somehow stopped the decline of support mainly in substitution and in the world and somehow tried to keep this balance of regular funding. That's how we were able to fix this index last year. I think that these joint efforts have achieved stability and growth, but I must say above all that this increase index will be reflected mainly in Italy, Hungary and Croatia, and this year we are also facing the stabilisation of the situation of the Slovenian minority in the Austrian Republic. In this context, the problems of liquidity problems, both with the sport society, the agreement with scientific institutions, are joined by issues of bilingual schools and, of course, comprehensive media care, and we face a major problem during this time of financial problems also in the newspaper Novica na Koroške. Last year, the installation of the music school in system funding in the Republic of Austria provided us with, in fact, 200,000 additional support to remedy the situation. However, I think that this situation has calmed down this year, because this systemic funding has come with great effort and I must say with the support of the Austrian Government, which is very important to us. By retaining some cultural space while at the same time integrating systemic funding into the education system in Austria. However, this year already has a positive effect, as more resources are now available for the rest. With regard to Novices, the Office can spend almost 250 000 a year to remedy losses in recent years, which means that the News needed almost 30% of all these support from the Slovenians in Koroška. That is why we have also been forced to insist on the introduction of crisis management within this house, which means the reduction of employees with pensions and the limitation of administrative costs and at the same time the stability of employment. During the years, the office also spent a large part of its resources on the Moja Slovenija newspaper. However, since the Office does not issue the newspaper Moja Slovenija, but only co-finances projects that apply for dedicated tenders, the Commission [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u135	Your time is up. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Dear Minister, your time has run out. Mrs Ludmila Novak, you have a request to complete the reply so that the Minister can complete it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u136	Thank you for your additional explanations on the news, the music school, but you haven't answered my two basic questions. These were: Are Slovenians worldwide satisfied with this new concept and the content of the portal and magazine? How much funding have you spent on this project every year? Those were my two basic questions. I have seen many times how especially older Slovenians enjoy taking the magazine physically into their hands, while younger ones read the News more online. I have also seen how they store these magazines when they see an article about their activities, their association in a magazine, or the Slovenians at home are proud to see an article about their relatives or relatives in this magazine. I agree with the need to rationalise the need to look for new concepts, new ways to adapt to new situations and needs, but I ask you once again whether the Slovenians are satisfied. Because these media are intended for them, and these media must be some kind of intersection between Slovenia and Slovenians who live outside the borders of Slovenia. Of course, I want this magazine to be taken by the media as their own, like the ones they like to read, where they learn something new, where their lives are also reported, and at the same time they can report themselves through these media to their homeland. Do you also have any special concept for the future?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The reply will be completed by Mr Gorazd Žmavc, Minister without a Resource, responsible for Slovenians in place and around the world.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u138	Dear Member! This is exactly the basic question that you're asking me about, I have to say that in the last few years we've given about 700 000 for magazines, newspapers, newspapers, news, everything that's related to printed media, it's now shrinking because we're going to rationalisation. That was kind of my starting point. However, I think that the portal that we have actually opened on the basis of the invitation to tender is actually the beginning of a new path. We are aware that this will be a project that is now bound by a two-year contract. However, we think that it is primarily for young generations, and in these conversations that I also conducted on the ground, whether the portals are those new tools, the new solutions, it was a pretty positive response that actually allows these younger members of society and the younger generations to participate in these activities. Above all, the skill of networking will also be among them. That is why I think we are at the beginning of the journey, we have had initial problems and we need to establish technical support for the portal. I think that we must now work primarily on expanding bloggers or those who will make these contributions on topics of interest. My opinion as responsible minister is to follow the right path. From these conversations that I have already had, I see that they too are opening these portals or their bases and will likely respond in the perspective. I have to say that there are real initial problems, but this change in this new technology and this relationship is going in this direction. Our policy on substitution is also that we want to focus policy on young generations, but I think that this is actually quite a real basis for us to get to this young generation, other generations and third generations, to be included in this system. So I think we're on the right track. Otherwise, we will also take into account the comments and the suggestions. That is why we have also set up a monitoring committee to monitor, if not, certain adjustments and guidelines in this direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar will ask the question to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petar Gasperšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u140	Dear Mr. Secretary! I'll bet you at this time when the temperature has dropped a little bit, as a matter of fact. I'm talking about the way in which heat is calculated and distributed in residential and other buildings, I'm talking about multi-housing buildings. On 4 November this year, the rules on the way in which heat is calculated came into force. I believe that this was a rather inappropriate time for the implementation of this Regulation to be in force, because this is already the time of the start of the heating season. Neither the operators nor the users themselves have had time to learn to prepare themselves for the changes that this new Regulation brings. This is about big changes, from the actual consumption that was somehow in the previous rule, it is now being calculated in a number of ways that are being passed on to some average consumption. It also combines with consumption by square. I believe that very different aspects of this account must be taken into account. We are talking about multi-accommodation buildings, about those dwellings that are in the middle floors, of course, there is a significant difference if housing is on the ground floor or in mansards, which we know can also have three times as many external areas as one apartment in the middle. This new rule does not stimulate those who have so far saved in any way to the extent that they have so far. Here goes the transition to some average consumption, but of course this is not so stimulating when it comes to heat consumption itself. Since there are many different interpretations and many questions regarding this rule, I ask the Ministry: How did you plan to solve that problem? Of course, other heat sources must also be added, or it is, for example, electric heat, radiators, climates and so on. There's a lot of questions open and I want to know how you're going to [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u142	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you, too, Member of Parliament, Mr Ljub Žnidar, for asking the current question concerning the Regulation on the way in which heat is shared and charged in residential and other buildings with multiple parts, such as the official address of this Regulation. The main issues relating to this Regulation, which entered into force in early November, are indeed related in particular to issues related to Article 18, which governs the so-called passive heat subtraction. This is the heat that passes through the walls and floorboards from neighbouring heated apartments to an apartment that has, say, a certain lower temperature and thus lower consumption than the minimum necessary. This is based on the physical fact that the heat passes from higher to lower temperature. However, the proportion of this deduction or possible passage is reported by the Real Estate Managers' Association for a non-heated unit, up to 40% of the share of a heated area. This passive subtraction, which means that this heat transfer between the apartments does not occur if the heat between the apartments is uniform, so at about the same temperature level. In order to better understand all these possible cases arising in connection with this Article 18, we will prepare cases of heat-sharing calculations at the Ministry and then publish these cases on the Ministry's website. This will also make this accessible to all tenants, users of multi-housing buildings, managers, and, on the basis of this, they will be able to find answers to any open questions. With regard to electricity heating, such as electric radiators, all I would say is that electricity is basically too expensive and too expensive a source for some basic heating, to cover all the heating needs. Therefore, this direct or direct heating of electricity by regulations has been prohibited or limited to the use of electricity for some type of supplementary heating and for basic heating only in cases where the use of a primary energy source is not possible; this is provided for by the Regulation on the rational use of energy in heating and ventilation of buildings and the preparation of hot water. Subsequently, however, the use of electricity for heating has also been limited by the Regulation on the efficient use of energy in buildings, so called PURES, and a new version of this Regulation, which is in preparation, will further limit this. With regard to other issues relating to the decommissioning of individual dwellings from the common heating system - because many want to lower their heating costs in a way that, as said, they are heated with electric radiators, which is therefore contrary to the regulation or with air conditioning - I would just like to say that these issues need to be addressed in accordance with the applicable housing legislation, which determines how the management of shared parts and appliances should be handled. These issues are not regulated by this heat regulation. Nor does the Regulation regulate various technological solutions that may be questionable in relation to construction and housing legislation. The basic purpose of the Regulation is to promote the rational use of common heating systems, thus ensuring that such a system is also cost-effective and environmentally friendly for all occupants of a multi-housing building. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, you have a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u144	Dear Minister, perhaps now if I go to some specific cases. The apartment, such as an example, shows the consumption of heat for 40% less than the average consumption of the building, the average heat consumption in the building is charged. It is said that in fact the one who has now been saving in some way does not have this stimulating effect on him. On the other hand, I absolutely agree that an empty apartment also pays the average, because the country must strive that there are no empty apartments in Slovenia. This thing seems fine to me. However, a big difference comes because the rule also allows it to show a value that may be five times greater than the average consumption of the building. This five-timer is a very large range for me, and there's a huge imbalance here. I don't know if it's really an extreme or a pre-dimension. I also wonder if it is even possible to bring five times the amount of heat into a housing facility. And then those who don't have dividers are charged with average heat consumption. In this case, these housing units are better than apartments with built-in distributors. Such anomalies may also occur in these cases. This is said to mean that in the given case, the cost to be charged may be higher than the actual cost of the facility that this formula brings. What to do in these cases?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Additional explanation will be given by the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Peter Gasperšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u146	Thank you very much. This limit, this 40%, which is often mentioned, representing a milestone when it is converted to a reading based on divisors, or if this consumption is therefore lower, to a calculation per square area, after the surface of the dwellings, results from some calculations, as far as possible by some normal use of the apartment, according to normal living conditions by means of austerity measures, by thermostatic regulation of valves, by closing windows, by simply replacing the windows to save, according to the average use in that residential building. These estimates show that, when it comes to ensuring normal housing conditions, it is virtually impossible to get below 40% of this average use in an apartment by means of austerity measures. You can cut it by half, below 40%, and if you provide 18 degrees, you won't be able to make it to an apartment like this. However, if consumption below this 40% is shown, it is assumed that the temperature in this apartment is inadequate or that these heat meters do not work in some way or that the heating system does not work properly. In addition, in cases where you mentioned that the heat consumption reading is disproportionately higher, it is therefore also intended in all these cases that the meter manager review the operation of these meters and the heating system in order to take appropriate action in the case of observed abnormalities. As we say, we will explain all these possible cases with this case of some imaginary multi-family building and then also give examples of calculations. I would also say that here is this obvious, that the rule does not encourage saving, is somehow unjustifiable, because this limit, this leap that happens to shift to calculation by square meters, requires an additional condition that such apartments are more than half.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u148	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Dear Minister, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! This is the first time I have asked you about the vision, operation and funding of the Institute of Information Sciences in Maribor. I am asking you this as a combination of the Maribor Institute and the institution of national importance in its field. I ask you in the context of the conclusion of the IZUM building and the energy rehabilitation of the existing facility, which is now being concluded. Every Friday, when I come home from Ljubljana, I drive by there, and I have to say that it has an even more beautiful look than many years ago. I'm asking you: What is the vision of IZUM as an institution, and above all COBISS. Net from your perspective, from the perspective of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport as a departmental ministry, and in particular with the possibility of optimal financing of IZUM activities and COBISS project. Nat? Perhaps a sentence, two on IZUM, which was established in 1992 due to the COBISS project. It's like a public office. In 2011, the Institute acquired the status of the UNESCO Regional Centre for Library Information Systems and Information Systems in Research Activities. Only the name is somehow, as it is said, historically conditioned, because the site of IZUM's activity is providing information support to education, science, culture, so this is the destination in this area. The main activity of IZUM is therefore a public service financed from the country's integrated budget and a smaller part is also financed from market activities, in particular through the sale of its products and services abroad, more to the Western Balkans. Before I run out of time, there's still a central question. I want to know: How do you see the vision and functioning of IZUM in the future? At the same time, I appeal to you that, to your best efforts, efforts, knowledge, efforts, efforts to ensure or achieve such scope and dynamics of funding, the existing IZUM activity will not be compromised, but above all that the users of the services will not be affected – there are few, perhaps more on your side – offered by IZUM, and that there will be no loss of about 110 jobs currently on IZUM, and that, if possible, God will not make the black IZUM scenario worse again in Maribor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u149	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Greetings to the chairman and to all present! Thank you for your question to Mr Piklo. I'll try to pull it off. This is a broad question and I will try to get into that part of the vision, which is certainly also part of the vision for the development of individual areas of the ministry. For IZUM, we also see it further in both the mission and the vision it has performed so far. This is an extremely important role of this institution in information support both in the library and research area. Not just in Slovenia. It is also expanding to the regional proximity of the neighbouring country, which I think is also one of the principles of sharing and disseminating knowledge that IZUM has been able and capable of, which is also very qualityly placed and operating in the last period. That is why in the 2016 and 2017 budget we also allocate slightly more resources to IZUM, in index 102.6 which means almost 100,000 euros more, which I think is also a sign that we are also strengthening it in this way. It is true that IZUM has been included in that part of the downsizing of resources in the past as a whole of science, i.e. as a whole structural area, and we are also working to find the right development guidelines in these areas. What I think is very important is that we believe that some updates are needed in this area as well. It was therefore also signed in 2014 by a financing contract for the operation, an awareness of the IZUM facility and the energy rehabilitation of the existing facility, which you mentioned, is therefore an infrastructure development issue. In fact, technology also needs its framework and its infrastructure. The project is expected to be completed by the end of 2015. In addition to energy recovery, the aim is also to improve working conditions, not only for employees but also for the establishment of a new computer system through which the provision of services themselves can be more secure and, above all, more reliable. Perhaps a few more data on the value of the entire project amount to EUR 9.5 million, of which EUR 7.2 million is from the ERDF, while the Republic of Slovenia contributes a million EUR and the rest are IZUM's own resources. In developing the vision of IZUM, let me also stress what you have connected with Cobiss and with responsibility for developing appropriate and especially useful information systems. IZUM also, of course, derives from its market activity, drawing from the development of products that have been specially developed and transferred from existing also public knowledge, so to speak, the Republic of Slovenia to other republics of the former Yugoslavia. I think that this is also one contribution to the expansion of knowledge transfer and cooperation with the Western Balkans, to which we are also committed at the Ministry. And IZUM performed this role qualitatively. As far as surpluses are concerned, the use of surpluses for this purpose has already been defined by the Government, so the conclusion has also been given, so that we understand and support this co-operation, because we think that it can only strengthen an additional core activity. As far as the public service of Cobiss is concerned. Net is not part of the public service as a whole, as the basic institution has been conceived, so in the past, in terms of funding cuts in this structural area, we are speaking not only for IZUM, but for the field of science, it has happened that the shares of public funds have been reduced. As it is said, the index has actually grown and I will also look forward to getting this role also because of the reinforcement of the infrastructure background, which I think is particularly important here, so that they can develop their services and the products they are preparing. In particular, I think it is necessary to expose this profiling in an international environment. Maybe she's still reflecting on the asked question. What we will continue to do is also increase the connectivity of all the products and services that IZUM is already developing and installing. We also give weight, however, to information sciences, which are actually a support environment for science and higher education, especially in society. Cobiss. Net is, for example, one of the more visited websites that really provides a lot of information about individuals, research groups and published sources, as well as the material carriers of these resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u151	Mr. Uroš Prikl, you have a request to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u152	Thank you so much for saying that. I have to tell the introductions that with your implementation, with your view of the problem, I am satisfied. I see you've got a look ahead here. Of course, it would be illusory here to expect things to be resolved in the first few months of your operation, now I am speaking to you personally as ministers or your teams at the Ministry, which have accumulated and kind of pushed in as they have for many years. Of course, it would also be illusory to expect the government to give you a disproportionately high share of the increase in resources, since all other ministers also have important projects to implement. However, I would not like to point out in a year or two that this trend is still continuing, a trend in the decline not only of IZUM but of the institution, not only of the Cobiss project, but of science at all, but of culture as well. We know that these are not projects that would be measurable in the short term that could be measured after the end of the workshop, said, yes, so much and so we have done, such and such progress over the next few weeks, but this is a long-term investment in something that brings – this is probably what the Minister of Finance would also say – a long-term high multiplier effect. I believe that you will continue your efforts in this area, that the 100,000 euros will only be a stone in the mosaic of additional integral budgetary resources and that it will not be all at the institution itself to obtain them by selling its products and services to the Western Balkans and beyond. I want to, but I expect IZUM to have enough resources to be able to carry out its core activity without delay, at the same time, which I think is perhaps even more important that it can also take care of development, i.e. the development of its services and the products of these enlargements into international space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič, Minister of Education, Science and Sport, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u154	Izum, Cobiss. The net and all infrastructure elements built by SICRIS as such are, of course, sustainable, and I can also say important support elements of our scientific research area, namely the school area, as well as the wider social importance of the visibility of what has been achieved and published. What I might add to your very important consideration is, of course, that in a short period of time we find it difficult to patch up and replace all the flaws that have arisen in this system of accumulation, which you have also highlighted. We'll keep trying. We cannot provide as much of the resources as we could reasonably expect, but we will certainly try to find the best possible solutions in the given capacities and frameworks. What is important about IZUM is that it was able to fit in really with its knowledge wider. I think that this is the emphasis that must also be strengthened further, because it has been a hugely crafted developmental focus over the last period. I think we'll be able to support it further. Systemic, however, to the extent possible in the given frameworks, to fight for development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mahnic will ask the question of the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič, and the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr Anji Kopač Mrak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u156	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Since the beginning of our term of office, we have been practically talking in this Parliament about traineeships, paid traineeships, volunteer traineeships, how we will end one, how we will introduce others. We have already seen two proposals from the Slovenian Democratic Party. They were both rejected. We are witnessing numerous letters between the Government and the Committee on Social Affairs, we are witnessing many conclusions on the Committee on Social Affairs, we are witnessing many oral and parliamentary issues, but unfortunately we are not moving forward with some implementation and it is still happening through these letters. Therefore, the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs may be asked to begin by asking: What is the current situation in this area? My colleague, Mrs Jelka Godec, has already asked about the abolition of volunteering at the Ministry of Education and Calling 300 new posts for teachers, to fill this gap of 300 graduates who will not have a traineeship, where there will also be no requirement for a professional examination. I want to know: How is this particularly so in terms of whether it is discriminatory or not discriminatory for those who are already having a professional examination or who have had an internship and will not be able to do so now in this quota 300? What about those, even those who are somehow already expecting jobs in schools, where we know you've gone this way, that it's still balanced to hire new teachers where old teachers go to retirement? What does this mean in particular from the point of view of the Ministry of Social Affairs for Social Workers? Is it possible to expect a similar solution in this area as has been done by the Ministry of Education? But above all, I want to know: When are we going to get a marriage so we can finally get these internships settled? We also receive letters from Members and Members of the National Assembly, requests for the convening of extraordinary meetings of various committees, including representatives of student unions, student organisations. Just the last time we thought that by the Student Organization in Maribor we had received some conclusions received by their world. In this way, both the coalition and the opposition are under great pressure on Members and Members, but unfortunately there is no other answer than that we have already proposed this matter twice and that we have been listening for a year and a half to how we will deal with this issue, and this implementation is being remote or we do not have any concrete answers. If the ministers could answer me in this direction in particular: What is the current situation and when is it to expect concrete solutions from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to be received and decided by Members and Members? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u157	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anji Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u158	Thank you, Vice President of the National Assembly for your word. Thank you, Member of Parliament, for the question. Maybe I'll make one oris, and I'll be complemented by the Minister of Education about the students. As you well know, he was 12. 3. 2015 Home Committee on this subject, where a decision has been taken to prepare an analysis of traineeships in public administration. On the basis of this decision, the Government commissioned our ministry on 1 April to actually draw up a single document with this analysis. We did it. We have pooled all the data of the state administration and the wider public administration, what is the state of the volunteer traineeship. This analysis, which has also been discussed, was in particular an important action plan resulting from this. In the meantime, your proposal for a law that the Ministry of Labour and the Government did not object to, but was subsequently rejected by those involved. All I'm saying is that we've been trying to work this thing out the best we can. We have also made it clear that it is not a problem of the labour law, because in fact it is permitted by sectoral laws. Although the government has concluded that volunteer traineeships are not admissible, there has been no volunteer traineeships since then. In the area of social affairs, for which I am responsible, we are in charge by the end of the year to prepare an amendment to the Social Protection Act. The government will deal with it safely before the new year. After a shorter procedure, this will be disabled. At the same time, there will be a proposal for a labour market regulation law in the coming year, which will also fix this part. Therefore, as regards the fact that it is not possible to enter into voluntary traineeships, but what is agreed, as previously funded by European funds in the area of social protection, we will continue to do so. You know very well how this funding is going, i.e. the operational programme, which was approved in December by the European Commission, is now possible to draw. We are, here I have the exact date, 2. 10. Submitting an application to the management body, this is the SVRK, to confirm that we are going to the invitation to 100 traineeships in the field of social protection. What we've agreed with the young people we've been working with all along. We have received some additions to this role, and we are now waiting for agreement. I expect that, as promised, by the end of the year, this call will definitely be. For the second year, we will work together on this area. In the framework of the Youth Guarantee, we are also negotiating a new call for proposals next year. In summary, given what was adopted in the Action Plan, things are going according to plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u159	Thank you very much. I also give the floor to the Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Members! Thank you for this question, Mr Mahnic. Let me begin by stressing that training in the field of education has never been compulsory in this respect, as is communicated in the public domain, so that a uniform traineeship is a prerequisite for a professional examination. This is a variety of forms that we consider to be a form of some kind of traineeship or experience that needs to be acquired in order to approach a professional examination. This is something that we have been discussing recently in connection with the proposed call for training in the general public. I would like to inform you that we are at the Ministry in the final stages of this call to expect it in these days or at the latest at the beginning of the following week, that it is in fact 300 cities, which we will call upon from 1. 2. Furthermore, these include those inexperienced beginners who, of course, have the appropriate education, such as future teachers, teachers and, of course, those who are experts in this field. However, we stick to this call for Youth Guarantee criteria, which are also conditioned by the European Commission or the way these funds are used, which means that this call can in fact only be made until the age of 29, when the young person’s criteria in the standards or criteria of the European Commission are also considered. That is why we cannot bring this invitation to tender any further. What we have recently done in dialogue with all stakeholders, both young people, teachers, representatives of potential trainees, representatives of trade unions as well, has been coordinated in the context of the call for proposals, and it has been that we have tried to adapt as much as possible to the prevailing situations and even within the standards and criteria that these financial means allow or the way in which they draw, however, will have access to this call. However, this is not the only invitation to tender that will also be made in the coming year for the purpose of gaining experience.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr. Jan Mahnic, you have a request to complete the answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u162	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you for your answer, too. Thank you, too, Minister Dr. Copač Dark, for not objecting to our proposal at the time, but we know what happened in the second reading. If I understood you correctly, the Youth Guarantee, where countries apply for invitations as we have already had, the first job or where employers have been exempt from these two years of payment of contributions, is to say that instead of allocating funds for this problem, we will go to the traineeship because some countries are also applying exclusively for internships. So for this 100, it'll be by the end of the year, if I understand correctly. I'm interested, and I'd like to ask you the answer to the question: Does the Ministry also think specifically in such a way as to abolish them so as to ensure employment as a compensation for those social workers who go into retirement? But as for education and your answer, it is not mandatory, but we do know that in some way there has been discrimination in this way, because everyone prefers to hire someone who has already done this internship. But above all, I want to know: What will happen to about 400 other graduates who now will not have the opportunity to do volunteer training because you have abolished it, will not meet the conditions or will not be able to participate in the quota of these 300 who will be employed as a substitute for those who will retire? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u163	Thank you very much. First, I give the floor to the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anji Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u164	Thank you. With regard to the Youth Guarantee, this is a more comprehensive package, not a replacement of one or the other. So the internship is a package of 300 in education, 100 in the field of social protection. This has been assessed on the basis of social protection needs. The fact is that we have more students who are graduated from each side, but we need to be assured from the point of view of what we need within the system, because in some ways it is not appropriate to sign 300 and 400 places and in the end there is no need for them in the system. On the basis of the fact that about 100 young people in the field of social protection who carry out apprenticeships, even on a regular basis, in connection with the outflow, could be integrated into the system. If Zujf no longer exists in this work, next year things are a little bit more relaxed as to how many new jobs are possible in the system. The Youth Guarantee is broader, and we are now negotiating with the SVRK, which is the body that confirms these decisions, on which we can then go to the first challenge, which is where the youth employment subsidy in the East is, therefore, some of the stories continue. We are also talking about training in the workplace especially for young people, where it is right under the Youth Guarantee, as the Minister has said, that there are up to 30 years of restrictions. Several meetings have already been held with young people in the new financial perspective of the agreement on measures to be part of the Youth Guarantee. These are the procedures that are, in fact, establishing a new drawing system in the new financial perspective of the ISARR and all that is behind, and therefore delays are set. However, I am counting on these key programmes, including for consultants, to say, at the employment agency, where we hire young advisors who work with the young unemployed, so that these things will be confirmed by the SVRK by the end of the year so that these programmes can run smoothly. In the first few months of the following year, there will be an open debate on new programmes, innovative solutions in this area. We will also go to the regions and talk because it is a new financial perspective, new funds that we need to pool and use as constructively as possible for the well-being of the unemployed and all others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u165	Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u166	Thank you very much, chairman. Let me make it up to you. We would also like to build on this form from the Youth Guarantee, as already explained by the Minister of Labour. Why? We are aware that there are criteria within the Youth Guarantee that we must follow, while at the same time we want to open up space for all those who belong to other groups or have different individual experiences or career paths in this area. Therefore, we will continue with some of the projects already in place, such as the Popestrim School. There's no such limit. At the same time, young or, of course, slightly older people who are on a new path to career growth can exercise and acquire these skills. If I just summarize briefly, we're going to complement the projects, this basic project with this [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr. Jan Mahnic, do you want the word? No, no, no. Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Hanžek will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister! We were informed of correspondence between the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia and the International Office for Environmental Protection and Nature Conservation of Maribor regarding the regulation of the area of Calvary. It is the wish of the Inter-Agency Office to regulate the landscape in that area by arranging routes and views, which would be intended for citizens and tourists, in short public non-profit and non-commercial uses. Before this arrangement, the area should be cleaned because it is infested. All arrangements would be carried out by the Medo-Chinese Office by means of public funds and donations. However, according to local community information, the owner of the land owned by the State, the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, requires more than EUR 5,000 in compensation, which is even more likely than the land of some more than 26 acres worth. In short, the public administration wants to improve the quality of public-owned surfaces and to revitalize them and offer them to citizens for public use, thus improving the quality of their lives. And for this, this public institution should pay the public fund from public funds. That's why I'm asking you: Do you believe that the arrangement allowing such illogicality is in the public interest? Will the Law on Forest Management, owned by the State, prevent such anomalies? Is a free agreement between the Fund for Agricultural Lands of the Republic of Slovenia and the International Office for the Protection of the Environment and the Conservation of Nature of Maribor possible in a specific case for the management of the Kalvarija hill, since it is a matter of regulating public areas for public use with public resources that remain in public property with added value and will serve public benefits to improve the quality of public life? Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Dejan Židan will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u170	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you, Mr Member, for the question also. On the basis of this question, I have obtained documentation on a case-by-case basis, otherwise this documentation does not come to the Ministry of Agriculture because the Fund is sovereignly and independently acting on its own. On the basis of the documentation, I find the following. Hold, as you mentioned, when it comes to a local community which exercises any rights in the field of such consent, the Fund shall issue an account in accordance with the price list adopted by the Council of the Funds. However, there are at least two options to do otherwise under current legislation. The first option is to simply recategorize the local community, and there will be no obstacles on the part of the country, specific areas. This is already a forest at this point and the forest for green areas, i.e. areas that are not in agricultural or forestry use, needs to be reduced. There will be no resistance here, and even if these areas are then rented, the amount here is completely different, that is €185. Or take advantage of another option that is also being used, and it is that public interest is to determine which of the competent public institutions of State importance, the competent ministry or any of the public institutions concerned with culture or in this case also for sport, because this is intended to be combined. However, as far as I know the plan, in this case, the payment of consent is also forgiven. So I suggest that we go this way; the second path is even shorter, the first path is longer, but it is also clear. At this point, we are not thinking of agreeing that their world should change this rule because both paths are enforceable, and the fund estimates that the local community can use them. However, I would also ask you, Mr Member, to follow this case if you find that there are any obstacles to any of these two paths to inform me immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr. Matjaž Hanžek, request to complete the answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u172	I hope that's not a procedural error. I'd just like to thank the minister. I'll refer the others to your answer, and if there are any problems, they'll probably turn to you. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Bacič will ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u174	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary! About 16 years ago, the reform of primary education began to be translated into practice, the most visible change on the outside was the extension of compulsory education for one year. The changes were accompanied by high expectations. One of them, in addition to contributing to quality growth, was the expectation of greater adaptation to pupils, strengthening cooperation between schools, parents and children, a certain burden on non-essential components of educational work that would facilitate the work of pupils and teachers. But when we discuss the Slovenian system of primary education, we are pleased to find general statements that are at least not entirely consistent with the declaration objectives of change. Thus we can hear observations that the school is too demanding, that it is overcrowded and that the standards are too high. My parents warn me that performance and competition across the border of a suitable one already occurs in the first grade. They believe that there is a lack of specific administration of the substance and that learning is overcrowded with abstract content. Parents also point out that all too little time is spent talking to students and their suggestions. Children are very burdened with domestic work or tasks, even at a time that is intended to acquire new strengths; here I am thinking mainly of holidays and weekends. Too much loading of homework burdens them, and rest time is not what it is intended for. A large majority of children need the help of their parents under such requirements, but for various reasons they are often unable to provide adequate support, so they seek expensive instruction. In 2011, a White Paper was presented which evaluated the planned direction of education and education in Slovenia and also provided concrete guidance for improvement. Some of them have already been transferred through various measures and some proposals are still waiting in the drawer. On the basis of what I have been told, Madam Secretary-General, I would like to know: What is your position on the success of implementing a nine-year-old and what measures is the Ministry planning to further strengthen the quality of public primary education?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u175	Thank you very much. The Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u176	I thank you, Madam President, for this important question. The issues of the very success of primary education are, in fact, directly linked to the actual quality assurance of the educational as well as to the educational process taking place at any educational level. In fact, the question is, What is a good school today or what we expect to be a good school? In this regard, however, let me say that we opened the school year on 1 September with the words of the European Commissioner, who evaluated the Slovenian education system as a good one. And he highlighted this quality work that we do in primary education, namely from kindergarten education, primary education and education, which I think is something because it is the basis for each individual, especially the basis for each child and family. It is true that we have the most evidence of the quality of education in relation to the achievements of students. However, I think that we all agree that the goals that school must provide for the whole path of child development are still broader. So not only the achievement itself, but also the monitoring of other areas of strengthening the child's growth, education, participation in society and cooperation within the family and the wider community. I think these are all the goals we want to place and strengthen in nine-year education itself. These objectives are also set out in our umbrella law, namely the law on organisation and financing of primary education. Therefore, students, achievements are also linked to the broader capacity and competence that we build through the child’s path. In fact, the achievements of students during this period are being checked and systematically sought to gain some insight into the quality achieved through national knowledge checks. This, of course, is one of our reflections, not a complete reflection. And right now we are in the process of reforming the meaning and development of a nine-year-old. I think that this broader public debate is, because we have highlighted it to all stakeholders, but it has shown that, of course, in certain times, we must look back and see what we can do even better for the future. At this point, experts are also discussing, and today we also have similar gatherings, how exactly these evaluation mechanisms will help make the nine-year-old even better. And that also applies to your basic question. At the same time, we have launched quite a number of comparative studies on which quality elements in primary school are those that may need re-examination, insight, and analysis. We are therefore using a number of ongoing international analyses that are trying to compare us with other national systems. Of course, they're not unique to ours. On the contrary. National systems from the point of view of education, education varies greatly. However, certain quality elements, which design a programming value, are also, of course, targeted in this broad meaning of the word, and there are also some guidelines that can be compared between countries and also on board the European Union. This also helps us to reflect on how, in some elements in the nine-year period ahead, even in relation to dialogue with parents, in relation to other stakeholders, as well as the wider social community and in particular its expectations. These are very diverse, sometimes very difficult, and sometimes difficult to achieve. In fact, during this period last week, the Ministry has already highlighted a vision of quality at national level, particularly for this higher education work. We know it at the higher level, where the NAKVIS Agency works and the entire system of monitoring European standards and guidelines, but we believe that there are so many already established elements, which are set up by schools alone with parents, along with teachers and teachers, together with the wider community, that they provide a good basis for building a more comprehensive view of them. And that is what we are building during this period, and we will also present it to the wider community and all stakeholders, because we would like to build our reflection on what we can do better from the prevailing situation of the elements already implemented. We therefore advocate the gradual conceptualisation of the quality system also at the higher level. I hope this will help answer your question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Request for complete response. Here you go, Mrs. Maria Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u178	Thank you very much. I would not ask for an answer to be added, because the answer was very comprehensive, I must say, and I am satisfied. But maybe that's all she'd say. So, Madam Secretary, perhaps it's more of a comment than a request to complete the answer. As you know, I am a Social Democratic advocate of public primary education. I therefore look forward to such measures, which will in particular strengthen the network of public schools and contribute to the teaching of motivated teachers or teachers. The strengthening of their role must also be given special attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, would you like to supplement?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u180	Maybe just for a little while.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u181	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u182	Thank you, Chairman. Certainly public education is what we need and want to strengthen, and I think that this comparable quality is also marked by the Commissioner, the fruit of many years of work, the commitment of teachers, teachers and also the strengthening of the whole system for the purpose, not only of increasing the achievements of students, but also of course of strengthening the quality of society. Children are not only our greatest value, but the future. Thank you for your suggestions and views.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mrs Jelka Godec will ask the Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc. Given that the Minister is justifiably absent, I ask that the way of reply also be defined. Here you go, Mrs. Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u184	Thank you very much, chairman. That is exactly what I would like to point out that the Minister is absent today with an excuse to chair a pre-arranged workshop on the subject of long-term care through the participation of foreign experts. And I would like to know what the excuse is, given that we have written in Article 235 of the Rules of Procedure, that ministers or State secretaries may be detained from meetings in case they participate in the institutions of the European Union or because of international obligations. I would like to be asked here by the President for an answer. First of all, it's about this. However, if this is a workshop on long-term care, I would also like to know why Mrs Kopač Mrakova, who is also involved in this project, could be present and the press conference was held by Tomaž Glajar, director of the Directorate of Health Economics, who was responsible for this workshop. I think that's an apology from the minister, in her own words, for her hair. At the same time, it is also a matter of specific priorities of the ministry, as the Minister also points out in essence at each meeting of the National Assembly or at meetings of the Home Committee when she is not present on the most pressing subjects. The following also concerns respect for the decisions or recommendations of the State Assembly by the Minister. My question is in the field of carrying out the emergency medical service in the Republic of Slovenia, asking the Minister and asking for an oral answer at the next meeting. At its 15th extraordinary meeting, on 5 June 2015, the National Assembly considered a proposal for a recommendation concerning the implementation of the emergency medical service in the Republic of Slovenia and adopted a recommendation that the Ministry of Health, prior to the adoption of the new emergency medical assistance regulation, inform the competent committee of the proposals taken into account in the preparation or adoption of the rules of procedure. The adopted Regulation was published in the Official Journal of 30. Ten. 2015 without prior information from the Home Committee or the National Assembly. The Minister sent the Rules of Procedure or any comments from the public debate to the National Assembly 13 days after the adoption of the Rules of Procedure. And that is, in fact, on the initiative of my written question. So there are two things, Mr. Chairman. First of all, that the apology sent by the minister was almost inexcusable of the absence from this meeting. On the second question, please give an oral answer: Why did the Minister fail to respect the decisions of the National Assembly and fail to inform the Home Committee of the adoption of the Emergency Medical Regulation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Of course you'll get the question in writing. As for the first part, we will warn the Government, but I must say that the Minister presides over this meeting; it is true that it is not in line with what you have found. We're going to bring this matter to the government. It's hard to tell you anything else.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u186	President, that's all. I asked for an oral answer, not a written one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u187	I'm sorry. Yeah, oral response. Mr Jernej Vrtovec will ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u188	Madam Minister, I would like to refer to you the question of the appropriateness of the legal arrangements for the appointment and discharge of government representatives in the Holy School Offices. On the basis of our concrete experience from my environment, from Ajdovščina, according to the Slovenian school environment, it is now legally possible for government representatives in the world of the institution to be dissolved on the day of the election of the director, on the basis of some proven untrue anonymous complaint, which was determined by the police, the prosecution and the Ombudsman within their legal powers. On this basis, however, a discharge procedure can be carried out perfectly legally, i.e. without difficulty, within the Ministry. According to the District State Prosecutor's Office, this is, however, ethically controversial; it is not criminal, however, because there is no specific provision in the law for these procedures. That's why I'm asking you: What is your position on releasing government representatives in holy institutions on the basis of unverified anonymous complaints, and this takes place at the time of executive appointments? The discharge was on the date of the appointment of the new director. Will you prepare an appropriate legislative basis within your powers to prevent such acts in the future? Even if it were just one isolated case, Slovenia is too small to afford this kind of interestingly motivated, the actual mutilation of people who are currently prevented by school and other legislation. I believe you know this case yourself. There was nothing good about it. Once again, I emphasize, from my environment, he has raised a lot of dust. Later we obtained information from elsewhere in Slovenia, from other secondary and primary schools where such cases took place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Maja Makovec Brenčič will answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u190	Thank you very much for that question. Dear President, honourable Member! In the beginning, let me just explain some of the current systemic legality that governs the status issues of the institutions and their bodies. It is the Law on Institutions, which was adopted in 1991. Article 29 provides that the Board of the Institution shall consist of representatives of the founder, representatives of the staff of the institution and representatives of users or the public concerned. Although the founder of a public institution may also be the Republic of Slovenia, the municipality, the city or others by law of an authorised public legal person. The representatives of the founder shall be appointed by the authority responsible. In the case of institutions when it comes to the establishment of the Republic of Slovenia, it is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia; then, when it comes to municipal or local founders, it is analogous to their appointment. That is why we can say that in the world "not always sit" government representatives, or they are representatives of the founder. It is a fundamental right, which then represents the appointment of a proposed candidate or candidate. However, there are also sectoral laws or acts establishing them, which, on the basis of the proposal, can make this appointment through the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Perhaps this; the composition, method of appointment or election of members and duration shall also be determined by the law and acts establishing or establishing the statute and the rules of the institution. This is normally Article 29 of the Law on Institutions, which is then interpreted into the type of institution. The case that you are referring to, I only know in part, only from the information that we have been able to obtain from the proceedings. It is difficult to comment directly; however, it is necessary that the procedure for the appointment and discharge of members of the Council in the field of education and education in the event that the founder of the Republic of Slovenia is again laid down in this already mentioned act establishing it. And if the Member’s discharge procedure — and no matter what the Member’s name is — is in line with the rules, then in principle it is not possible to detect any irregularities in such a procedure if they are followed. Now I would like to present another aspect, which has been systematically accumulated recently; and this is certainly a reflection on your particular question. What is important in all this is that the Ministry is very aware of the problems of the functioning of the worlds, institutions in the field of education and education. We have different types of these institutions, as I have already mentioned, in this systemic presentation and in particular in connection with the procedures for appointing directors. From the beginning, when I entered this mandate, I gained quite a bit of information on this by our professional services, which is also happening from the point of view of local, urban and all levels of participation in the appointment of world procedures. That is why we have also been in contact with the Anti-Corruption Commission, where we are already involved in the preparation of legislative changes and the active examination of what would be useful in appointment procedures in such institutions to ensure that all stakeholder groups are properly represented and also properly identified or potentially resolved in the procedures. In fact, there are several cases, not only your specific ones, but some other cases, which are in the process, are being handled by the relevant authorities. I think it is also right that we, together with the Ministry of Public Administration, which is responsible for the current Law on Institutions, should also agree and propose how to improve the system of appointment and the procedure for implementation. I can also say that we are discussing a lot with the principals and principals, because they are also aware of these problems, which may come regardless of the environment or kind of institution they are actually putting themselves in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr Jernej Vrtovec has a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You have also come to know the specific case by the Ombudsman, if I am not mistaken; and on the basis of the infringements found, you have also adopted such recommendations by the Ombudsman, namely to withdraw the contentions from government websites and to express regret for the violations committed by the Ombudsman. However, we believe that merely expressing regret and in a private letter to the injured, and the acknowledgment of the District Public Prosecutor's Office about the unethicality of such conduct, which, as you yourself have found, is not criminal, literally calling for further attempts to repeat such approaches. What's this all about? It is also because an individual who goes in good faith to run for office as head of the board of the institution is discredited by anonymous letters, threats and so on. This must be prevented in any way, or we will have one and the same people, who are not necessarily good, in such exposed functions. That is why we expect you, Madam Minister, who also has the backdrop of the Prime Minister, the Minister and the Ministers, the entire coalition, to prepare a legislative basis that will prevent such approaches from happening in the Cali itself. The Ombudsman has also provided the basis for appropriate guidance in her findings and also in her annual report on the work of the Ombudsman. Its recommendations to apply the principles of good administrative practice could in themselves be sufficient if they could also count on the ethical behaviour of the participants; but once again, the reference to the ethics of the participants is not sufficient. More precise frameworks for legitimate conduct should be defined. However, legislation needs to be amended in order to ensure ethicality as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u194	Perhaps I should add that we have also discussed in our discussions and discussions how to channel such procedures even more qualitatively and especially at the implementation level, even in the spirit of ethical principles, of course, credible. True, though, ethics comes to every individual. It is difficult to prevent all such anomalies in advance with some normative order, a normative basis. I think that awareness is also very important, at the same time, so that we do not actually cause each other harm where it is not necessary; but we are responsible for what we are doing. We will also discuss further in dialogue with the principals and principals how to deal specifically with these procedures so that they are effective, quality and, above all, ethically feasible.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Ms Eva Irgle will ask the Minister of Justice a question. Goran Klemenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u196	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Secretary! Last week, a senior judge, Mr. Norman Doukoff, came to Slovenia for a visit to your invitation. From 2000 to 2003, he was a pre-accession adviser to the Ministry of Justice, analysed the Slovenian judiciary and proposed measures to modernise the judicial system. He no doubt set the mirror for the Slovenian judges at that time. At the press conference, he estimated that Slovenian judges were primarily involved in protecting their privileges and payments. The reaction of Slovenian judges was expected, of course, they sent a protest letter to the German ambassador in Slovenia and to the head of the European Commission delegation headed by former Justice Minister Zalar. The reaction of Slovenian judges then also confirmed Doukoff's assessment of them. With regard to this visit, Mr. Secretary-General, I ask you the following questions: What was the purpose of this invitation to German Judge Norman Dukoff to visit Slovenia? What were his activities? What are the prospects of this visit? Does this visit also constitute some kind of starting point for the preparation of changes in the law in the field of justice; in particular those that would strengthen respect for human rights and ensure the functioning of the rule of law for all citizens? I ask for information on the most important planned changes in this direction, and I sincerely thank you in advance for your reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister of Justice of the Magi will answer. Goran Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u198	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, other distinguished Members and Members of Parliament! Your Honor, thank you for asking. In fact, on 13 November Slovenia was visited by Norman Doukoff, who is currently chairman of the Court of Appeal in Munich. He came to my invitation. The reason for the invitation was double. It is one thing to respect and think that with my mirror, as you said, even though it was partly potential because, like everything in Slovenia, we also tore Doukoff apart. [[…]] Some delete it, others own it, but I think its contribution to the twinning project of pre-accession negotiations in Slovenia in terms of analysis of the Slovenian judicial system was extremely important. And I'll tell you something you probably don't know, and that will explain why I invited him. When the last conference was held in 2001 and the presentation of his latest findings, the Slovenian legal scene was so intertwined about his findings, and I was then employed by the Council of Europe that they called me from the office of the then Minister of Biziak and said: "Would you come to run this round table so that they won't argue too much with each other because you've been out for so many years and you might be independent?" That's when I met him. A while ago, I found out that next year he was retiring to retire. That's why I invited him to Slovenia because I wanted to talk to him because I wanted to talk to the colleagues he was already working with at the Ministry, and because I wanted to express to him in some way the recognition that what he was doing in the Republic of Slovenia had certainly had effects. In addition to spending several hours in a frank conversation together, the judge met with various representatives of the judiciary, with the people he shared the office with when he was at the Ministry of Justice. I know he also had some personal meetings with the people he was with at the time. For three years he was in Slovenia; with people who were now and were already supreme judges, professors and so on. And I think he said honestly, although this is very unfair, that I now tolerate what he said; but I must say he has expressed satisfaction that many of his recommendations have been taken into account. He certainly praised the direction of development in the field of civil, criminal and organisational legislation. He greatly commended the establishment of the Centre for Justice Education in the past, on the basis of his recommendations. And he could not go beyond that, no matter how many times we spoke on the Committee on Justice or in this esteemed assembly and things we saw that there had also been great progress in reducing judicial backlogs. We also talked about specific problems, which in some parts are similar, in some parts larger, in some parts smaller than in Germany. We also discussed our plans for the future, which will soon be known through the 2016 Ministry's normative programme. I also said on the Days of Slovenian Justice that as far as justice is concerned, 2016 will be the year of reforms. This esteemed assembly, unless there are any major changes, will certainly receive some important procedural laws and some important organisational laws from the point of view of justice, the Council of Justice, the State Prosecutors, notariats, executives, administrators, valuers, interpreters and so on. It was very nice talking to him, I can assure you that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mrs Eva Irgle has a request to complete her reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, we are therefore expecting a fundamental reform of justice from you. You've predicted it many times. I hope it's not just about the promises. Not to take this as an obvious question of what you were talking to Mr. Doukoff. I am very glad that he came to visit and explained to you his views and views again on Slovenian justice. But you or your colleagues wrote the following on the Ministry of Justice website, quote: "Judge Doukoff has assessed progress in Slovenia as very good. He was pleased to note that individual recommendations were taken into account and commended the direction of the development of Slovenian justice in the field of civil, criminal and organisational legislation. He also commended the encouraging trend in statistics from the point of view of the resolution of judicial backlogs;" which you yourself have explained in your reply to my question earlier. But, Mr. Secretary, I am interested in the following: Are these so-called very good assessments, which you have written on your website, the result of consultation only with you personally; is it said that Mr Doukoff alone has been given an opportunity to look into the state of justice; can he actually look into the real state of the data, including the recent report of the European Court of Human Rights? Was Mr Doukoff aware, because of the broader picture that someone, when evaluating a system, must have before them, that the highest functions in the judicial system are directed by persons who have violated human rights in the previous and present system? Thank you very much; I also thank you for these two answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Mag. Goran Klemenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u202	Thank you very much for complementing the question. Mr Doukoff wasn't just invited to perform some pear show or something. Mr Doukoff is a respected, respected and principled gentleman who also knows the situation in Slovenia very well. I have to say that I laughed at some of his anecdotes about how he was able to recognize such and different political perceptions of such and different officials when he was working here. I'm not talking in court, I'm talking in the Ministry of Justice and the government. No, I didn't exactly represent things to him. That's what my associates did. He chose most of these for himself because they were the same people he was sitting with specifically in his office when he was working. I know he's met, but I'm not going to point out now, with the people he worked with here at the time, even with the Supreme Court; these are not people who would be very kind to, say, the Slovenian justice system. It is a fact and it has repeatedly stressed to me that justice in Europe is everywhere in the crisis. He said that these three years in Slovenia, when he was very critical of the Slovenian judicial system, gave him additional criticism of the German judicial system. He said that recently, as the President of the Senate of the Supreme Court, he had decided on a stateless case of compensation in a traffic accident that lasted 16 years. He said that he had major problems with the training of judges in Germany, that judges had not so much problems with efficiency as with quality. And he also said that, according to your criteria, he had already violated human rights because his decisions had been annulled by the Supreme Court; that was what happened to every judge. We have been very honest about these things, and I must say, you can believe me or not, that in some parts he was so excited about how much progress had happened in the legislative field, that I sometimes had to burden him a little. But we still have a problem here. Under the line, I think it is a person who still needs Slovenian justice in terms of advice. We are agreed when he retires to hear from us, not because we would take everything he says for gold; but because the experience of someone coming from a relatively regulated legal system is important for Slovenia. And also because I think he is objective in this; although, by the way, he is very aware that in some way the market, as I said before, is like everything in Slovenia, when we kind of politically divide who is with you and who is from the other side. I have to say, he thinks it's a little fun. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mrs Nada Brinovšek will ask the Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc, which is a percentage of what we have found. Please define yourself to the way you answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u204	President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! I already said when adopting the budget for 2016 and 2017 that the Ministry of Health already needs a doctor; and why it needs one. The Emergency Medical Regulation, published in the Official Journal, is inconsistent with the recommendation of the National Assembly. The Minister also explains to us here and everywhere what has already been done in the field of health in this mandate. And what have we considered in the field of health here in this National Assembly? One regulation, two amendments to the law and the Law on investments in public institutions, which is discriminatory, as we have also pointed out in the debate in the Slovenian Democratic Party. To expect a reform of the health system in vain, I think we are already familiar with it. At least I hope that this analysis, which the Ministry of Health has given to a foreign society and has also paid very dearly for it, has not shown that the most pressing problem now in the field of health is the area of concessions defined in the Health Activity Act. Although here the profession claims that this area is well arranged. The Minister appointed 18 members – 11 members from the Ministry of Health, 2 members from the Ministry of Finance and 4 members from the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance – to the working group to prepare amendments to the Health Act. I can't help but wonder where the profession is right now. There's no profession. And I also wonder if we can trust the members of the Ministry of Health to make changes to the law, but if, for example, these professional services of the Ministry have failed to unify the content of this form in the preparation of the medical equipment management form; and if they have then left or stopped collecting the equipment data. The Medical Chamber also pointed out that the Ministry did not allow any cooperation under Article 71 of the Medical Service Act. In explanation of my colleague's oral question at the previous meeting, the Minister said that the key purpose of the amendments to this Act was to abolish the anomalies, such as to arrange for uncontrolled sale of concessions, as it is said that in the field, for example, when a concessionaire goes into retirement, the concession is informally transferred without the consent of anyone else and the rent is charged for this. I'm asking you: How many concessions have been sold at the primary, secondary and tertiary levels over the last five years? I'd like a written answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Dr Anji Kopač Dark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u206	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister! The latest data published on the website of the Employment Institute of the Republic of Slovenia show that unemployment has increased again in October. Here we are constantly listening to how the government and the ministry are trying to improve the situation in Slovenia in this area; however, as these data or indicators show, October 2015 does not attach to this. It is also true that poverty in the country is increasing, as almost 300,000 people live below the poverty threshold. It is therefore of paramount importance that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the coalition and, of course, all those who have to work hard, make sure that the relevant legislation creates conditions for the development and prosperity of the economy, which results in new jobs and is the only way out of the vicious circle in which we are constantly spinning. I am convinced that in this direction there can be no political overreaction and stumbling, because our common future depends precisely on whether citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia will begin to believe in a policy they really expect to work in their interest; and not in the interests of narrow ties and uncles from the background who are constantly undermining the foundations of our common future. That is why, Madam Minister, I ask you: What measures will the ministry and the government propose to reduce unemployment below 100,000? And when will these measures be proposed?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Anja Kopač Dark will answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u208	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Thank you, Mr. Marian Pojbich, for the question. In the core of your question, you highlighted data on the October unemployment rate. Let me say that in the autumn months, there are increasing rates of unemployment due to cyclical or seasonal trends. In October, the newly registered Employment Institute leaving school is known mainly for the following years: each year, if you look at the last 10, 20 years, there are similar numbers. However, it is better this year because first-time job seekers have registered significantly less than last year. At the end of this October, 107 000 488 unemployed were registered, 7.3% less than last October. It is always necessary, since oscillations are annual, to look at the month of the month, so we see these differences between months and within the year. In the first ten months of this year, the Institute registered on average 113 000 222 unemployed, which is 6.2% less than compared to the same period in 2014. The fact is that it is shrinking, but we certainly have to agree that the number is still not the one we want. As long as we have so many unemployed, of course we have a problem. The situation in the labour market is calming, but we are actually talking about this delay. We have also debated on the Committee for the last time that economic growth appears and then the market reacts; whether downwards or upwards is always a delay. And that's what's happening right now. The fact is that this year 2015 was in some way a specific year, because the old financial perspective has expired, the Ministry of Labour is certainly a resource, if you look at the data, one of the few that we have absorbed 99.7% of all resources, and in fact we did not have any new resources available. As of this year, new projects under the active employment policy are already being confirmed at the SVRK, with the managing authority. Before the end of the year, the first challenge for young people was to be confirmed, namely subsidies for the employment of young people from eastern Slovenia and training in the workplace for young people and other vulnerable groups. In early 2016, we plan to publish the remaining public invitations to promote employment of risk target groups. It is also true that the adopted active employment policy strategy, which is 13. 11. adopted by the Government, focusing on the long-term unemployed, this is also in line with the operational programme. The fact is that the working activity of the older population in Slovenia is essential under the average of the European Union and that we are trying to make a difference in this area in particular with certain measures. A while ago, we had a discussion where you were very active on the committee where it is being discussed; and the National Assembly has adopted an intervention law where older unemployed persons who are in the institution for more than six months and are over 55 years of age are provided with incentives for their employment, so that their employers do not need to pay for their social security contributions; at the same time, their rights under the social security system are equally guaranteed. The fact is that a broader agreement will also be needed on changes in the field of criminality regulation, where it is on the basis of the view that certain changes can be achieved by sharpening the Labour Inspection Act, but we cannot fully resolve this. The issue of labour overcapacity must also be addressed in terms of labour costs. We will more equalise labour costs and reduce the burden of the employment contract, make it easier to achieve more people under the employment contract, which is crucial from the point of view of employment; in particular from the point of view of the financing of the social security treasury. It is important that economic growth continues, that there are no major oscillations in this economic growth, that active employment policies will focus on the most vulnerable groups and that the money available for this is indeed spent on those who need the most incentives to be as competitive as the rest of the labour market. With all this policy, we can expect the following year to see the unemployment rate fall below 100,000, which is, of course, what we all want, and we will do everything in our power. It's probably everyone, including the citizens, who expect us to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič, please make a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u210	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Madam Minister, what you have said is true, but you have not specifically answered my question which I have asked. You said -- we'll do everything we can to get under 100,000 employees. I specifically ask you: What will you do and when will you do so? That was a very specific question for me and you did not answer that. I am sure that both of us are aware that the number is 100,000 and more for Slovenia and for such a small economy in any case is very problematic. 100,000 and more unemployed – and this government has been in a position for a year and a half and in an area that seems crucial to me, and of which many times, I say over and over again that we will not solve this problem unless we take the necessary measures to enable the economy to function normally in this society. And in this area, we don't do anything. Moreover, the Ministry of Finance has been putting an additional burden on our economy over and over again by such and other measures. There is no way along this path that we can reach the goal that we are talking about today and that I am asking you about. That is why it seems very important to me that you, as a minister of this government, are constantly reminding this government of the need to take certain measures that will support the economy and give the conditions for the creation of new jobs. This is a fundamental and crucial issue if we are to get out of this situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, Dr. Anya Kopač Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u212	Thanks again for the word. Since October last year, unemployment has decreased by 7.3%. If you can say that this has been contributed by this government or not, you can interpret it as you wish. That's a fact, a fact; 7.3%. If we look at it since 2012, when I came as Minister of Labour in 2013, then we had the highest level of youth unemployment, so we received the Youth Guarantee. Over 25% were in the Eastern region, so we got this money. Youth unemployment has fallen due to the Youth Guarantee, the European Commission has told us above all that Slovenia has been an example of good practice in this area; with certain measures under the Ministry of Labour. You can ask me about the Labour Relations Act, you can ask me, because I have answered you on the point of how we think, you can ask me about active employment policy measures, to which I replied, which calls will be made this year and what calls will be made next year. This is the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. If you want to ask a question to my colleague in the field of economics or to the President of the Government, you have this opportunity. However, you cannot expect me, as Minister of Labour, to answer in the field of the Ministry of Finance on tax policy, on contributions or on economic changes, perhaps on companies and others. I gave you an answer regarding the responsibility of the Ministry for which I was appointed and swore in this National Assembly. The results, of course, are common. It is common, I agree, we are working on the government as a whole; but here you ask me as Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. I hope that, within my powers, I have given you the answer to the question of what the Ministry will do about measures to reduce unemployment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič, please make a request for a debate in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u214	That's right, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, first of all, I must say that this is what you have now tried to make a story in your debate, far from what a man would expect of you, Minister sitting in the government. And when I asked you this question, I put it to you because not only are you the Minister for Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disability, where money is shared; but you are also the Minister who is a member of this Government of the Republic of Slovenia and you are part of this government. And you, as a government minister, could say very clearly when such and other measures are being taken, which add to the burden on the economy, that this does not have positive effects, so that we can talk about whether unemployment will decrease or not. And another question is here. Do you know how many people have moved out of Slovenia during this time, in the year and a half, and checked out of the Employment Service?Oh, my God! How many of them migrated and worked in Austria and all around and got out of the Employment Service. And not to mention that you have done nothing at all, nor do you, that these migrants, who work abroad and are double-taxed, have saved these double taxation; since this possibility exists, it is possible to seduce this possibility. You've got everything in your hands and you've done nothing. To mislead the Slovenian public that the government's actions and your actions are those that have reduced unemployment for this part, when unemployment has fallen by 6%, 7%, is the total deception of Slovenian citizens and citizens. I am sure that if we all want to work together – and we all have to work together in this direction; and you, as Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, not only do we all want to work together in this direction; and you as Minister in this government, not only as Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, but all of us, because if this government does not act as a interconnected mechanism, I am sure that the results will not be the same as we are now talking about. We will never come to a reduction in unemployment in this way; at least not under 100,000 and more. You probably remember very good data, in 2008 we had 56,000 unemployed; 56,000. Now we have about 110 thousand of them again; and this is what the government of Mira Cerar has done.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly in the afternoon vote. Dr. Franz Trcek will ask the Minister of the Interior a question. Spring Györkös Žnidar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u216	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Minister, the House of Honor! In this reference to the National Assembly, we have started the problem of the police several times before the so-called second refugee wave. A year ago, we agreed that it was some sort of human resources sub-sector in which a generation gap was already taking place, irrespective of the opposition-coalition side in this hall or building. That the equipment is spent is probably also the result of someone who once suggested that this sector could be privatised, such as some practices abroad. Of course, the United Left disagrees with that. With some of the challenges and problems we have recently faced, we have not been able to speak back long about finding some solutions after the urgent short-term, medium-term staffing complement of the police force. It was an amendment of legislation, a number of well-intentioned proposals by the opposition, which the coalition somehow did not accept; or as one of the MPs said, they are well-intentioned, but still need to be rethought. Personally, I think that this debate in the National Assembly has been quite enough to take action at the level of the executive branch, so my question to the Minister, in part also to the Finance Minister, who is absent, is very simple. I'm asking you: How will short- and medium-term staffing go in the Slovenian police, which is more than strictly necessary? Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u217	Thank you very much. The Minister of the Interior, Mag, will reply. Vesna Györkös Žnidar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u218	Thank you for your word. Dear Member, thank you for asking the question! I agree, the police issue has already been raised several times in this National Assembly. If you remember, I have been very intensive on the committee at the end of last year, and I believe that this was entirely on the ground, even given the fact that I am a member of the government and have faced extremely difficult financial, human and material malnutrition of the police at the time of taking office. Since then, this has been one of my fundamental priorities in this mandate. I think that we have already achieved a number of things in this area and that these movements cannot in fact be overlooked. As far as police staffing is concerned, the consequences of excessive savings in the police in recent years are now showing up more than ever before, so we have already summarised certain urgent measures in the area of the completion of the regular police and also in the area of the completion of the police reserve. As you know, the Law on Organising and Working in the Police, which enables us to do so, has also been amended, as has the Police Assistance Regulation, and the Resolution on Crisis Response Measures has been adopted within the framework of the powers of the police. In this way, we will come to the human resources potential that is verified, which is qualified to carry out police tasks, which is particularly welcome at the current time of facing an extremely migratory wave. Police also prepared a plan to increase the number of auxiliary police officers to a thousand 500 and immediately informed everyone who belonged to a group of former police officers. We have already received more than 100 positive responses, with which a contract will be concluded immediately; and the missing auxiliary police officers will be sought by the police by means of a call for proposals. We have also taken certain measures in the area of regular coverage of police types. In order to halt the negative trend, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia already approved the employment of 152 state border police officers this year, who will complete the school in January 2016; and 100 candidates for police officers at the Higher Police School, who will complete the school after two years, in 2018. This year, the government forwarded to the National Assembly a resolution on the long-term development of the police programme by 2025, which was adopted on 29 September. The resolution sets out an active employment policy programme with an annual call for the employment of police officers and the continuous implementation of the higher education curriculum for the profession of police officers. It defines that every year – starting this year and already implementing – 100 new police officers are continuously employed under the higher education programme and 150 candidates for state border police officers, because we are aware that the planning of personnel resources in the police is of paramount importance; in particular because of the unwise decisions in the past, which in the current situation manifest themselves and make it increasingly difficult for the police to face security challenges, which we know are increasingly complex and challenging.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Here you go, Dr. Duck has a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u220	Thank you for the explanation, which, I must say, I'm not very happy with. In part, it appears that reflection is not going deep enough already because of the government's inconsistent statements recently at the strike and so on. I believe that Mr. Prime Minister can have a bad day and a bad week, but even ordinary Members, we have to be careful what we say and what we say. From what I've been told, I'm particularly concerned about two. It seems to me that there is a little fetishisation on one side of the reserve that will solve something; however, it seems to me that there will be no medium term. This response was not as great as was originally predicted. It was clear from the contacts with retired police that this would not be the case. And from what you have said, this completion will, if it lasts for a period of time after the next elections, if this mandate endures to the end. And we need perfection right away. As far as I know, there are still 35 police and police officers waiting to meet all the conditions for a year, whether you're going to hire them or not. At the time when we amended the law, I suggested that we extend the employment of those who qualify for retirement in the regular composition, not in the reserve. I would expect answers to deal with the situation here and now. As you yourself said, 100 new ones will go to study and will come together in 2018; we are in 2015. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Here you go, mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u222	As already mentioned in the introduction, and we have already talked about this a lot in the National Assembly, the current government is in a particularly difficult position because in recent years no one has stopped the trend of stagnation in the police, even in the human resources sense. As soon as I took up my mandate, I became aware of the situation and I am also taking all the measures necessary to improve the picture. It needs to be seen wider. The fact is that the number of police employees has been declining since 2009, the last generation of candidates for police officers in 2010. The next generation was part of these measures that we carried out this year, which is a great success. It should also be borne in mind that the police are facing a greater negative fluctuation of personnel than permitted employment under the human resources plan; and this fluctuation is expected to continue in the future. We are therefore taking all necessary measures to ensure that the fluctuation is sustainable. And just to ease the police's staffing problem, we have taken measures – new jobs, 152 candidates, 100 candidates for education under the higher education programme and an indefinite working relationship with 330 police officers of the state border who have been employed for a certain period of time. It was accepted that these jobs are necessary because the workload of police officers is increasing. At the same time, with the conclusion of an indefinite working relationship for these 330 police officers, we have made commitments under the strike agreement and also the conclusions adopted by the Committee on Internal Affairs. At the same time, at the police and the ministry, we are pursuing the need to complement the police species and we are carrying out a number of activities aimed at halting the trend of the decline of the police. In this context, there are also all the measures that I have mentioned today. However, I must also say that you mentioned the sentence that the current government is the first to face unfulfilled sentences. At this point, I am waiting for the government's mandate to continue negotiations so that we can proceed immediately and immediately to an adequate evaluation of police work, which has been postponed in past mandates and has not been approached. Good conditions for the smooth operational work of the police are laid down in the budget we sent to the National Assembly for the next two years. At the same time, we will also take all necessary measures to improve the working conditions of Slovenian police officers and police officers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grims will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anji Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u224	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! History, if we don't learn anything from it, it likes to repeat itself. It's not just a very old proverb, it's a story that's always proven in practice. If you only want one case – September 11th, when the twins were collapsing in New York, he was not chosen randomly. If you want to know where this date came from and why it was chosen, type on the internet September 11, 1683, and you will see what happened then and which Europe was then defended, where and in what way; and why Europe is today as it is. This is very interesting in the light of what is currently happening, including what has happened today and is happening these days. For those of you who may not yet have looked at the Internet, today Turkey has shot down a Russian plane; this has opened up very different options than we have seen so far for moving forward. The question is, what will be the reaction? Let's hope she's reasonable. I'd rather not comment. Why such an introduction? Because in Slovenia we like to forget what our history is and where our roots are. I must say, I was surprised by one of the members of the coalition at the Foreign Policy Committee meeting this morning – the meeting was public, you can check. I was very surprised when he said the following sentence: Europe will either be based on Christian tradition or it will not be because it will no longer be Europe. I'll sign this, ladies and gentlemen. And I must say that these events, which have recently been so turbulent and marked our lives and decide the future of Slovenia, all of us and Europe as a whole, clearly open their eyes if this knowledge has already penetrated the coalition. I only hope that this knowledge will continue, because I had the feeling that the colleague who said it was a little later that he was scaring his words; but that is a fact. That's an indisputable fact. In Slovenia, however, we still learn when it comes to half-time history. And sometimes the best thing to do is to just sweep things under the rug. And that is why we do not deal with our history in a way that would be pietic, that would be appropriate, that would be consistent with European and Christian values. And the concept of this event is the Huda Cave. I asked your colleague for the last time who said this was your jurisdiction again. Madam Minister, I ask you: What will you do to keep the Huda Cave permanently accessible to everyone and everyone and to carry out her task in memory and reminder of stories of totalitarianism that must never be repeated?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Anja Kopač Dark will answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u226	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. From 2009 to today, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has been implementing the project of the Barbara Reef War Cemetery in the Hudi Cave. With its initiative, the Ministry helped to open this mass grave, the preparatory work to remove the walls began in March 2008, and then granted permission under the War Cemetery Act to remove the bulky material and research. Postmortem remains have been detected. 3. 2009, after the discovery, the police and the competent state prosecutor's office took over their work. As soon as the State Prosecutor's Office was informed of the completion of the investigation, the Ministry initiated procedures for the proper burial of the remains of victims of violence. 17. 12. In 2009, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a decision on the regulation of the rubble in the mine. Following the adoption of the decision and consultation, the Ministry initiated activities relating to the construction of the morgue and the transfer of the remains to the newly built hive. There are now 780 remains in the morgue. On the entrance portal of the mine there was also a memorial board and an arranged room for the setting of candles and flowers. The victims are thus provided with a worthy gift and a memory of the dead. In 2014 and 2015, the activities of the Barbara Reef War Cemetery were carried out in the direction of the rehabilitation of the mine shaft on the basis of a mining inspection decision. During the period 2009-2015, the Ministry earmarked €777,000 for the construction of the Barbara Reef War Cemetery in the Hudi Cave. The funds were intended to prepare a mining project to determine the existence and scope of a war grave, through the victims. The costs of investigations and identification were covered by the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior in this procedure and are not included in this amount. Under the new Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Burial of Victims, the competence to resolve the issues of hidden graves was transferred to the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and thus the functioning of the Commission. This has made all the hidden graves the responsibility of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. The military cemetery has already been registered in the register of war graves in 2012 and remains within the competence of our ministry and we are trying best to resolve these issues, together with the commission and also the Ministry of Economy. Due to the lack of security conditions when visiting larger crowds in the mine, we temporarily restricted our visits to the Barbara grave area in the Hudi Cave in agreement with the commission. Only visits are allowed for professional and scientific purposes and for necessary interventions to ensure the protection of a war cemetery. The Ministry has been carrying out activities since September 2015 to provide additional security conditions. To this end, we have held a meeting with a mining inspection, which will provide further guidance in a short time. Our aim is to ensure these safety conditions at the beginning of 2016. In September 2015 a meeting was also held with the Commission on the subject of further activities in the organisation of the Barbara Reef War Cemetery in the Hudi Cave. Among others, we agreed on property relations in the mine and in the area in front of the mine, on the crossing of the victims from the first hole, and on the temporary removal of the victims in one of the hives. We have also put forward a proposal to the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage to prepare a proposal to announce the St. Barbara trench as a cultural monument and to consider the possibility of arranging a memorial museum in the mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grimes has a request to complete the answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u228	Thank you. The severe pit is symbolically of exceptional importance. There, young girls and many others were walled alive, and the trenches are connected to the latrines, which are still full of victims' remains, according to all available information. The attitude to what you have described is that the country cannot be proud; it cannot be accepted by the human side. It's not the only cemetery. Unfortunately, there are 600 more in Slovenia. The stories about living, walled-up teenage girls and the living people who were left behind, watered with a meter and a half of concrete or killed in the most disgusting ways, all of this reminds us of the story that is now taking place somewhere else on the other side of the Mediterranean; but its reflections are slapping more and more towards us. And sometimes you can't get rid of the feeling that because it's forgotten about the historical memory, there's a lot of very uncritical sympathy for totalitarianism and crimes that we should never have for anyone. Every crime is a crime; anyone in the name of anything — in the name of faith, or in the name of ideology — or I don't know what he's doing. And everything needs to be treated the same way and everything needs to be preserved in memory. The victims must be preserved in memory, history must be preserved in memory. That's why I'm asking you: Why not include the Hud Cave Society, which is organized for this purpose? Why is ownership not regulated in such a way that the country of Slovenia is proud? You know what it's like to own, it's a pretty weird story. Why is it that things are not arranged in such a way that they are fully accessible, that the whole cave opens and that things are arranged in a pieteous and appropriate manner, as in a democratic country alone?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Dr. Anya Digger Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u230	I assure you that, within the limits of the financial possibilities of the Ministry of Labour during the worst economic crisis, we have had a priority in particular to ensure social rights for citizens and citizens. Therefore, the value of €777,000, which has so far been earmarked for the Hudo Cave, is what could have been provided during the financial crisis. We have followed instructions all the time to ensure that safety is provided in accordance with the options and that there is also rigour and a chance of a decent gift to the victims. Like I said. As far as the Huda Cave is concerned, I do not know if it has been officially established, but I am aware of the purpose of establishing it. Our Directorate Director, covering this area, met with them and presented the activities envisaged for the following year. These conversations are certainly going on. The fact is, however, that cooperation with the Commission is particularly important. I have also been to these meetings myself on several occasions, where we have tried to agree primarily on what is best in terms of limited financial capacity to be regulated. There has never been such a consensus. We provided funds for urgent work, but it is certainly within the means we have, to ensure that Barbara's grave in the Hudi Cave is repaired in a way that will enable a decent crossing. At this point, it is most likely that in 2016 – of course, an agreement with the Commission and others – will be needed – to transfer the remains to the already existing hives, where there is room; of course, this needs to be settled with those concerned. In the first part of the response, I have already said that agreements are under way on land relations regulation.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Breznik will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition. Diane Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u232	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, respectable colleagues and colleagues! If I say I come from the Slovenian Mountains, I hope almost everyone already knows. Today I would like to present one of the major issues in this area. In history, Slovenian mountains were mainly celebrated after agriculture. Let me say that, for example, fruit farming was one of the typical exercises, since, say, 100 years ago, we were also driving apples on the then imperial Danube. We also had great success in winemaking centuries ago. Today we have awakened many stories, thus Mr Postič in St Ana and others. The problem of Slovenian mountains is the issue of our past history. After World War II – destruction of large farmers, slaughter, exile, literally a section of large farms in 10, 20 or more smaller parts. The whole series of weekends that have resulted can be said to be devastating agricultural policies for 50 years. Today, Slovenian mountains are made up of very small farms and agricultural wholes, which are difficult to survive. And because they are hard to survive, each of these farms is engaged in additional activities on the farm. Those farms, which somehow specialize in livestock, agriculture, fruit or wine growing, must rent land from the Agricultural Land Fund. We can say that nothing has been done in this area. The specificity of the Slovenian country is that we are still holding some of these socialist patterns. In front of me, I hold one of these places – the lease of agricultural land on the location of Zgornje Partinje in one of the older farmers, who unfortunately lost his son recently. For 5 hectares of land, there is a thousand 212 euros, which is not a typical flat country. As you know, in the Slovenian Mountains the land is mostly favourable, we have a few smaller hills. And let me say that after the fall of all these prices, this was, say, 800 euros in 2009, today this price is EUR 1000 212 for the same agricultural land; a thousand 212. At the end of 2008 and at the beginning of 2009 800 euros. Now I ask the Minister for Agriculture: What is the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture anyway? Is this the policy of destroying these farmers, these people who have remained in these areas? Is this a policy that we are already pursuing, where the demographic picture in this area is catastrophic? Or is it a policy to try to keep small or medium-sized farms in the long run so that they can have this land as a smaller part of the lease? That's why I'm asking you to [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u233	Thank you very much. The mag will answer. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u234	President, thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, in particular Mr Breznik, thank you for the question. Let me read you some numbers first. The fund collects €7 million per year through the rental of agricultural land. This is the money we are also going to make for the implementation of agricultural policy, this is also a purchase and purchase; even at the border and so on. Of this, the most money is collected through them, because the rent is per hectare – here I want you to be very careful – EUR 177 per hectare. In practice, we have two exceptions. One exception is when it comes to demographically endangered areas. These are, for example, Haloze, Goričko, and some. This is followed by a factor of 0.8 or decreases. However, when it comes to areas that are coastal or near large municipal centres, it is a factor of 1.2; that is to say, it is increasing. For grasses and meadows, the rent is currently EUR 113 per hectare and the pastures are EUR 40 per hectare and the vineyards are EUR 168. Is this rent good, or isn't it?Oh, my God! Now we have three verification options. The first option is to check out the interest in rental contracts. This interest in free land is still extremely high when it is put on call for another. We have data on rent when it comes to auctions of land of this kind. They are significantly higher than current rents. The third information we record indirectly — not exactly accurate, but indirectly known — is what the rent is when it comes to business between private owners. They're different again, and I'd say they're rags compared to these rents. The rents, as you have rightly determined, have increased in recent years. For all the years, let's say this year they're not increasing, but they're taking the zeroth rate into account. The promotion took into account the following; although I must say here that the increase in the competence of the Fund and its Council. However, here I think they did the right thing, but the increase takes into account the percentage of annual inflation and factor income. Factor income is about efficiency. For example, in 2011 to 14, when the factor income was extremely high, 2012 was affected by the delay in working, we had one of the highest factor incomes in Slovenia; at the time of independence it increased. In 2015, when taking into account the factor income from 2013, when it was a bad year, it remained at the same level. And this year, according to November data, the Fund will calculate new rents for 2016 based on data for 2014. The finals are only in October and the intermediates are held in February or March. Once again, honourable Member, I must find out the following. The Fund for Agricultural Lands manages state property. If we look at these numbers, however we turn, we find that these numbers are lower by the information they provide me than they reach in the open market. I believe you'll find that in your area too, let it be any group of agricultural uses. At the same time, increases are extremely gradual. This is because it does not have a negative impact on agricultural production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Mr. Breznik, please, you are requesting a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u236	Thank you. Minister, you were talking about numbers for first-class agricultural land, if I'm not mistaken; I think the top number was close to 130 euros. You were talking about so-called additional factors for demographically endangered areas; I think you said 0.8. For areas that are not demographically endangered, such as Primorska, where you can create a higher added value, you said 1.2 factor. Now tell me: According to what calculation, for 5.7 hectares in Partinj a person can get a ticket in 2015, this is a calculation for 2015, for a thousand 212 euros? And another question: What are the long-term objectives of the Fund? You are a minister of three mandates; not after years, because these mandates were very short. You started the first one somewhere in the middle, and it got shorter, the second one kind of halves, and now you're in the third. We get literally Taiwanese farmers that you create in Prekmurje or also in the area of the Slovenian Mountains, who have literally taken over the former land of some sort of combinations in strange ways. On the other hand, those who have survived in these hilly parts may say that they are dying on meals. Not to mention what red tape you have introduced in recent years in the field of complementary activities on the farm, such as baking bread or the like. These people near the Austrian border can't survive, literally they can't survive. I'm interested in concrete solutions to how these farmers can survive. Are you going to sell this land to people who want and deal specifically with agriculture? Whether to completely reduce their rents to survive; whether we literally go to destruction, to fertilize these parts, and to leave young people from these areas. Since these people will not survive in the long run, they are literally already dying on meals. I would like to request a supplement to the answer: What is your vision as a minister in this direction? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Mag. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u238	I am sorry that you are so poorly informed as a Member. If you have time, come to the Department of Agriculture to be informed about additional activities. The agricultural organisations themselves have informed us that as good as they are now, it has never been regulated. And if you compare with Austria, which was a model for setting up Slovenian complementary activities, you will see what the farm can do for us to survive and develop; and what everything in Austria cannot. This finding is completely wrong, and I'm sorry someone suggested it to you. As far as the value of five hectares is concerned and something as you said, Mr. Member. I can't think of an answer because I need information about what kind of agricultural land this is; but I've told you the numbers. I would like to suggest something else – try in this area, which you are talking about with these numbers, to see what kind of rentals are used for business between private persons, including the citizen – farm or farm – farm or anything else. Believe me, there is a high probability that the numbers will be different; and that you will find out how much also the Fund invests in keeping the farms and that the farms are also developing. The Slovenian agricultural policy we are leading is largely a hectare of agricultural policy. That's familiar. This is known from the moment we entered the European Union, because before that we had a productively linked agricultural policy, we now have a hectare; except for the 15% that the blue envelope allows us to lead a production-related agricultural policy. I've talked about this a couple of times, and there's a agricultural policy where we're accelerating grains because we're short. We're accelerating vegetables because we're running out of jobs. [[Incomprehensible]] We have a policy to add to mountain and hill farms because they are most at risk. And we have a policy that finances so-called protein components because we lack them in Slovenia. There have also been some media reports published on how people have accepted this. In areas where there are limited factors, we have already re-adjusted in 2010 and again upward payments so that farmers can live where they are difficult to live. These are areas with limited farming factors. I know that wishes are great, but we must be aware, nevertheless, that we invest almost 40 million additional taxpayers per year in an area where we have limited factors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Mr Breznik has a request for a debate in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u240	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Mr. Secretary, now you're telling me that I'm not well informed. I meet farmers every day. I have spent my youth, as you know, among farmers in the Slovenian Mountains, I know the history of the development of agriculture, the decline of this agriculture and the destruction of large farms. My stories have a beginning and they have an end. Now tell me, which part of the agricultural policy are you talking about hilly, mountain farms – where are the Slovenian mountains?Oh, my God! Look, the premier law you introduced as populism. He intercedes with covenants; and where the land of the mountains begins, or the earth with affection, it is concluded there. And there's the Slovenian Mountains. Continue, then we tried a little bit with the spindle zones. What did you do in 2011? Immediately the amendment of the Agricultural Lands Act, we made a trade zone, a change of destination for one larger craft zone – EUR 400,000. Do you imagine? We had investments, they changed the paper on agricultural land overnight 2011. [[Incomprehensible]] In the middle of Lenart, the man who bought it suddenly has 400 000 euros worth of change in destination. Fortunately, another Janša government followed, reducing it from 400,000 to 30,000 because it's gotten so much smaller. Now we can slowly gather to at least start working in the trade field. On the other hand, destructive agricultural policy, totally destructive. We need a middle farm. People have the technical resources they've acquired. We need medium farms in Slovenian Gorica between 10 and 40 hectares, a middle farmer. However, agricultural tycoons are growing through Prekmurje and the Slovenian Goricas, who have stolen social property; all the products they have are net profit. Farmers in Slovenian Gorica literally die. And you're telling me I don't have the data. I've been among farmers all day, among the vets, among your colleagues, among the accelerators. You don't have the data. You live somewhere outside all of this, pal. [[Incomprehensible]] I tell you the truth, and therefore I demand that a public debate be held, where agricultural policy and agricultural policy are for an area such as the Slovenian Mountains, where we do not have hill farms and we are not in Prekmurje. And since we've always been modest, we never provoked. Now we have relatively little unemployment at the expense of all those who have left. There remain pensioners, elderly farmers, as in this case, even his son died recently, including a sad event, but that is not the point. The point is, agriculture doesn't develop. Almost all farms in the Slovenian Goreča can not live on complementary activities. We need specialised farms that will be able to deal with the primary activity, which is a historic, respected minister, successful and has a future. But the decline of this is also reflected through these rental prices of agricultural land. And now to talk about how a farmer takes land from a neighbor for rent and is twice as big because he takes half a hectare because it somehow fits him; that's not the answer. This is a devastating agricultural policy for the Slovenian Mountains in any case. I therefore request a public debate on this subject, and I hope that you will support me, colleagues and colleagues when the vote is held.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly today in the framework of the votes. Mr Bojan Podkrodšek will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food mags. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u242	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nicely greeted by both distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues! My question, as the Vice-President of the National Assembly has already said, concerns the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food in the Republic of Slovenia; the subject of rural development in the 2014-2020 strategy [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u243	Please, Mr. Podkoršek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u244	A lot, but sometimes we talk little about agriculture in the Republic of Slovenia. From the agricultural sector it is also an important development of the agricultural sector as well as development in the Republic of Slovenia. Minister, I'm asking you about maintaining environmentally sensitive permanent grass. As we are slowly running out of time to make corrections to Brussels, we would touch on one programme, which is permanent grass. In this area there are a lot of comments from Slovenian farmers because in Slovenia there are not too many land available or farmers in combination – one with this high area and a little less with the lowland area. And when a farmer falls down this lowland section into this programme, which I have mentioned, it is limited and has problems with farming and the development of the farms that are in this area. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Mag will answer. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u246	Thank you, Chairman. The implementation of the new agricultural policy has created a new vocabulary called the green component. The green component allows all farms to receive 30% of payments for the green component, while the farm does not have the option to decide whether or not to have a green component. If he doesn't want to implement, then he's out of all payments. These green components must be around 5% at country level. The problem posed by permanent meadows is that they are permanent, that it is a land for which the farm cannot be decided at some point and overturned; but it is permanent grass. We, like all other countries, had to define it and have reached the areas according to specific criteria. This task was performed for the country by the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Nature, which defined these areas within Nature 2000 according to the criteria which were the selection of Nature of Qualifications and Habitat Types, which are directly linked to grass habitats; then the selection of such habitats that they had after reporting in 2008 or in 2011 remained species and habitat types, the assessment of U2, i.e. poor conservation status. Nature 2000 was done and, on this basis, 13,000 and several permanent meadows were established within 7,000 and several farms. We, too, are looking within the Rural Development Programme for the possibility that where a farm has found that, despite all the work of lawns that it has used for a long time as lawns, this is not a meadow for a year, it will be qualified. At this point, any promise would be premature. It is not possible to make any promises at this time, since the State must keep a share of this grass, the compulsory grass, of this grass, which is in some danger. Three or four ideas on how to propose to the Commission that it is possible to make a partial deregulation in this area are also forward-looking; however, any promise for this because permanent grass allows 30% of the green component to be paid. Here we are not talking about 100,000 or millions; in fact, 30% means slightly more than 30 million euros. The permanent grass is not grass where it would appear overnight. The permanent grass is grass that has been there for a long time; this grass is defined as permanent grass on the basis of experts who are the Institute of Nature Protection of the Republic of Slovenia in this case. For some farms that have found that they would like to intensify production, solutions are being sought, but at the moment solutions are not such as to receive positive guidance from the European Commission. This is a problem that is not only present in Slovenia; it is a problem that is present in all the 28 Member States of the European Union. Once again, I would like to stress that the fact that we have agreed to this permanent grass allows us to pay some more than €30 million to Slovenian farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Here you are, Mr Podkoršek, a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u248	Thank you, Your Honor, for your answer. I think we both have feelings and we've detected the same problem we talked about. But it is a fact that we face problems. I thus respect farming, I have great respect for farming; on the other hand, I also respect naturalists. There's a difference. What I'm trying to tell you is that someone who owns a farm that has a barn for not knowing how many cattle and is actually confined to the ground has a problem with the land, doesn't have enough. In Slovenia, however, there are farms that have always a meadow and have no problem with it. On the other hand, I think it's a lot easier for someone to say that butterflies would fall in some area. To find a common language here. Dear Minister, I ask you on behalf of all those who have these problems, who face this problem daily and every year, to find here an elastic program that would be possible so that they are not now limited to squares; because now the farmers are actually limited to every square. And like you said, if it's broken, then all the subsidies fall. Thank you for your efforts.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Mag. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u250	Thank you, Chairman. Your findings are correct, including the control of permanent grass. This is essentially very thorough supervision, and I also call on farms within this measure not to make their own decisions, because it is very dangerous for the finances of their farm. At the moment, we have the most operational problems with those farms that have been authorised for permanent plantings just at a time when permanent grass was being established. On their part, legitimate legal expectations have already arisen and, in some cases, large investments have already been made. And this is the first group of farms that already have large financial resources in place, for which we must first find a solution and we are already working out a solution. As long as we don't have a confirmed route and a solution, I don't want to make any promises. It is, however, the fact that we will send our proposal, as agreed with the Commission, by the end of this year and then expect it to be certified somewhere in February. But I would just like to say that we will only send forward what will be informally agreed upon. We do not want to allow in our programme the upgrading of the current agricultural programme to have things that would not have been harmonised, because it would have been the result of, say, rejecting our entire upgrade. There's no way to fix it, but it's either accepted or not. Inside these upgrades are some of the things that I think the agricultural area urgently needs. One part of this is the welfare of livestock – such as cattle, which is still under pressure at the moment, although the results have been better in the last two months, quantitatively even record – which will allow us to bring some additional millions at the annual level into this sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u251	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. Mr. Joseph Horvath will ask the Minister of Justice of the Magi. Goran Klemenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u252	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Madam Ministers! The Honourable Minister of Justice, Mag. Goran Klemenčich! The Financial Transactions, Insolvency and Forced Cessation Act, adopted in May 2013, has, among other things, strengthened the jurisdiction of the Credit Board in insolvency proceedings with a view to improving the position of creditors in insolvency proceedings. 119.a Article 119a of that Act gave the creditor committee the power to dismiss the manager on the basis of the discretion of most members of the creditor committee and to replace him with any person who fulfils the conditions for the manager. The fact is that, as a rule, in the Credit Committees, the majority are representatives of banks of creditors that have granted loans to insolvency debtors and have remained unpaid. Therefore, the creditors’ committees de facto represent the interests of banks, not the interests of other creditors. Above all, they're completely ignored workers. They are workers who, due to the exercise of the diversified rights of banks of creditors in bankruptcy proceedings, remain unpaid or paid in a small proportion, even though their claims are identified as priority. Banks also ignore in their appetites after payment the interest of maintaining the healthy core of the company, which is in insolvency proceedings and related job retention. In bankruptcy proceedings, there is a conflict of interest between the creditor board representing the interests of the creditors banks and the bankruptcy managers, which protects the interests of all creditors, in particular workers. However, since the Credit Board has the right to replace the bankruptcy manager, workers remain unprotected with regard to the maintenance of their jobs and also with regard to the payment of their wages and other benefits. For this is also the case in the company of Aha Mura, d.o.o. - in bankruptcy. The creditors’ banks, which consist of a board of creditors, will replace the bankruptcy manager, although it would be possible to maintain a healthy core of the company, maintain jobs and social security for a few hundred employees in Pomur. Mr. Secretary, I ask you: Are you monitoring the effects of Article 119a of the Financial Action Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination? Will you approach the preparation of legislative changes in the composition and competences of the boards of creditors? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Mag will answer. Goran Klemenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u254	Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Member, thank you for the question; the other Members and Members! ZFPIPP, in short, is an extremely complex law, which is also used in extremely complex situations, because it tries to solve something that we have over the years, domestically speaking, insolvency and so on. The effects of this law, which has been drafted in many ways or almost entirely formed with the very careful monitoring of the European Commission, the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, the special troikas accompanying this implementation of this law, are also accompanied by a special implementation group, which is run at the Ministry of Justice and is composed of all stakeholders – from the representatives of the courts, the Bank of Slovenia, external experts, etc. Here are some options and opportunities for change. Your question raised the claim that the Board of Trustees has the right and discretion to replace the manager. That doesn't quite hold. The Trust Committee has the right to propose a replacement of the manager, but all creditors must decide. The final assessment is therefore on the creditors and not on the board of creditors. Even in this particular case, it is also said that workers who are creditors. Here we come up with another question – which are those creditors that have the most so-called non-separate creditors, creditors with particularly secured claims, creditors who do not have some priority claims. [[…]] To make the most of it, the case of Ahasuerus is a specific case, and we have looked at it and compared it with other examples. According to the Slovenian Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, which is the largest creditor in the relationship to Aha Mura due to all the subsidies and so on; the other four creditors are banks – Nova Ljubljanska Banka, Gorenje Banka, Banka Koper and SID Banka. Why? Banks are not usually on board boards of creditors, since banks tend to have collateralised and separate claims over mortgages. In the case of Mura, which is a kind of question, banks have, in addition to workers, which are, of course, also large creditors in relation to, the type and large volume of unsecured claims. [[…]] I can't go down, nor do I know why the banks have made so many claims that they are not separate claims and are not in some special creditor relationship. Otherwise, it must be acknowledged that, through the changes in the CAPIPPP in recent years – and we have discussed this, even through the parliamentary issues in this High Council – the situation of workers has nevertheless increased significantly. Priorities of employees are, for example, claims arising within three months of bankruptcy. It is said that it is at least those last wages or other claims arising from the employment relationship. Furthermore, workers have a significantly easier opportunity to initiate the bankruptcy procedure free of charge so that it does not happen as it did in some cases where it was not possible to initiate bankruptcy; the workers were without pay for so many months and so many months. Let me tell you a case that's not exactly comparable to Moore, but there are more cases like Mure. In Vegrad, you have nine members on the board of directors, with only one of the members being one bank. This is due to the fact that banks had most of the claims secured by prioritised or divorcised claims. So Aha Mura is not the best case for a change of law. I agree that this is an extremely important business in the local environment, but I do not see the possibility of just changing the law because it would have a negative impact on all the other ongoing procedures. We're talking about all those claims that are unsecured. Here other claims, whether small especies, workers or banks, cannot be discriminated against because we do not see the legal possibility of doing so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath, you have a request to complete the answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I don't want to be on the Aha Mura case now, either, d. o. o. – change legislation in bankruptcy; this would certainly not be good. However, allow me to generalise, you may say that I am simplifying that in such a case, when the creditor committee is not satisfied with the bankruptcy manager, it will simply replace it. And if the banks will be on the board of creditors, for example NLB, as in the case of Aha Mura, NLB, which we all patched up, SID Bank, Bank of Koper and Gorenska Banka, if they are not satisfied, then they will simply replace the bankruptcy manager and replace the one who will work for them. Where are the workers now?Oh, my God! What's this all about? In fact, this matter has been drawn from the very beginning of the formation of the creditor committee, since a representative of workers has been excluded from the creditor committee. In doing so, it should be pointed out that priority claims workers have a recognised claim of EUR 5 million of EUR 342 thousand 217. I speak for Aha Muro, d.o.o. - in bankruptcy. How much money is that? That's almost 10,000 net minimum wages. Almost 10,000 net minimum wages! Moreover, the healthy core, as we say, which is now there, about 250 workers, is actually ahead of an uncertain future. That's what this is about. It is therefore a matter of overindulgence that banks sitting on a board of creditors are also comforting to me that there is also a representative of the Republic of Slovenia, how it will vote, I don't know, I have no influence and I don't want to influence it – the workers are simply disillusioned. I repeat, it's almost 10,000 net minimum wages. That is why I would like, Mr Minister, to continue the debate and look for solutions to how to eliminate these anomalies by amending the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Mag. Goran Klemenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Commissioner, I would like to say first of all if it is planned that it will be early next year, perhaps by the end of this year, in Parliament, the amendment of the ZFPPIPP prepared by the Ministry of Justice. It has been prepared intensively over the last month and a half with regard to the elimination of certain risks that have been identified in the public on personal bankruptcy and disciplinary responsibility of managers. And there will also be an opportunity to discuss this work that you are exposing. At Aha Mura, as you yourself said, at the beginning of the court's decision on the Board of Trustees were employees. After the banks notified all claims, workers were eliminated because the banks had more unsecured claims than workers. Well, there's a number of unsecured claims on the board of creditors. Instead of banks, there could be some kind of espa or some other company. Ah, Mura's specific in this case. It is specific because it is obvious – I will not say, I only suppose – because of such and different policies it was very ad hoc. And in other cases, that's not usually the case. I very much agree with you about the greed of the banks, but if the banks do not get these claims back, then we will criticise them here that they have let go of some claim that we will have to socialize and the taxpayers pay. As it is said, ZFPPIPP is a law that should apply to all such procedures. Due to the large share of the state in companies and the financing of these companies by state banks, we then have an anomaly, as they do in the case. I would hope to say that if today the ZFPPIPP tried to use, say, the Tama case we know, or in the case of Litostros from the past, we would have very similar problems. This is the problem of these societies that have solved themselves in the way they have. And here, they're short-circuited. All that has happened in the past, and these have been important steps forward, is that the claims made three months before the bankruptcy took place became a priority. We also talked to social partners and trade unions about what else we could do here. I certainly agree that there is still a need to discuss this. Once again, as far as we have been looking at it, Aha Mura is quite specific in this case. Probably because of the reasons that we mentioned together earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please, you have a request for a debate in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u260	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Rules of Procedure allow me to do what you're actually offering me. Also from the Minister's response and the announcement of the amendment of the said law, I think that, colleagues and colleagues, it would be a welcome debate in the National Assembly to put on the table all the problems that this law has with implementation. There must be more to be done here to protect workers. They're already handicapped when the company goes bankrupt. I guess we all know that. And if this happens in some undeveloped area, the undeveloped region, this handicap is so much bigger. We, New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, as you know, advocate a socio-market model for the economy. Insolvency procedures and bankruptcys are not a model of the economy, but we protect capital called workers, man. Man is the most precious capital, so we are protecting this capital and this capital alone – the worker. This is a socio-market model of the economy. It is true, as Mr Minister has said, that in this extremely complex legislation we have some reserves and we need to practically clean up with those legal provisions, as we have previously analysed, which have come into law, snuck into marriage through some kind of lobby and so on. It will always be so, colleagues and colleagues, that the banks will be those big creditors compared to the workers. How, then, can we protect workers?Oh, my God! Here we need to introduce some mechanisms, maybe they already have them, in comparable countries. However, we do not always need to look for examples of good practices outside; perhaps even here within us. If we have the right will, if we have enough political will, then we can come up with quality solutions. This time in this case, what was the purpose of my question to protect the workers who were brought here in an accident. Banks are never in an accident, even if they have bad results, even if we find big holes, we get what we, taxpayers, and we flip these holes. Who's going to take care of these workers who are being thrown on the road?Oh, my God! This is almost 10,000 net minimum wages. I propose that we hold this debate. I thank the Minister for his answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Your initiative will be decided by the National Assembly in the framework of the votes in about an hour. Mr Jan Mahnic will ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšić; please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u262	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr. Secretary! First of all, the information that traffic is excellent on new roads – through the Gorenjeva and Škopheloški bypasses. I hope to remove that last obstacle – the Medna Bridge, which we will now talk about. And we can be Poles in Ljubljana in 40 minutes as we want to be. We know that last week we confirmed the budget for 2016 and 2017. Unfortunately, the infrastructure item is not as we have detailed within those points a, b and c; about 150, 250 and 350 million, depending on the needs. But this is now behind us, the budget is adopted, this is a matter of coalition; as the coalition said, it assumes full responsibility for this budget. In this respect, it assumes full responsibility, including for the state of our roads and for the lives of citizens and citizens who are questioned on many roads in poor condition. Mr Minister, I said that my question about bridges on state roads, which we closed two years ago, would be because they had already endangered lives, human health and property. There was no money for rehabilitation, but I'm wondering, perhaps you've also developed a plan for the rehabilitation of these 17 and now 15 bridges, which were closed because of the lack of funds. On the basis of the newly adopted budgets, I am interested in: When can we expect these bridges to be repaired? This is not only on you, of course, but also on the Ministry of Public Administration regarding public procurement. When will we finally get Members and Members to the table a law that has already been debated through the questions sent to this National Assembly to eliminate this anomaly when we have calls for revisions, where then the whole matter falls? There are companies that shouldn't complain at all because we know that some can complain about blocked accounts, which then just stops. Now, specifically, if there's talk of a bridge in Medna, you guaranteed money, the invitation was, we talked about the bridge in Medna this spring. That's when you told me the matter would be over in three months on your side. Now I want to know: Was everything done on your part? When can we expect the final implementation to take place on this issue? After two months of negotiations, including in this House, believe me, we have Gorenjek and Gorenica and, of course, everyone else driving around is slow enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u263	Thank you very much. Mr Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, will answer; please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u264	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thank you, honourable Member, for the question raised. If I can really start with a budget, it was adopted last week. In the field of road infrastructure we can be moderate optimists because after many years; I think it is as much as five years from this, since the Directorate has made as much money available as it will be in 2016 and then also in 2017 even more. There's been some progress in the positive direction. In view of all the needs accumulated over the past years, these funds do not yet guarantee that we will be able to solve all the accumulated problems. Further efforts will be needed here to provide additional resources. With regard to restrictions on bridge facilities, you might be able to use a few statistics to shed light on the scope of the problem. According to the Directorate, there are about a thousand 400 bridge buildings on the main and regional roads network with more than 5 metres of light. According to the professional criteria, these bridge facilities should be repaired approximately every 25 to 30 years and, after approximately 100 to 120 years, their life expectancy should be maintained and replaced with new facilities. In some age of life, each such facility should be repaired about three times. And in this case, if we stick to maintenance at these time intervals, every year we should have about 47 such bridge facilities on our road network with a range of more than 5 meters. As you mentioned, at the moment we have 17 such bridges on the Slovenian state road network managed by the Directorate, where a certain traffic restriction is established due to the poor situation. These limits are restrictions on capacity, speed limits or even one-way alternating traffic. In the 2016 and 2017 budget, we have provided funds for the rehabilitation of all 17 bridge facilities where restrictions are now in place. Some €10 million is foreseen for their removal, i.e. for remedial work and rehabilitation. For 4 bridge facilities, public tenders are currently under way, namely for the already mentioned bridge across the railway in Medna, the bridge over Soča in Plava, the bridge over Koritnica in Kluža and the bridge over Bistrica in Straška Gorca. Calls for the reconstruction of the other 13 bridge facilities will be made in the first half of 2016. Now, I'd like to give you some more happy news. We have just been informed today that the complainant in the event of the reconstruction of the bridge at Medna withdraws his complaint, so that we can conclude a contract this week. I think this narrow throat will be removed in a few months, too. We expect that in the spring we will be able to look forward to opening this bottleneck. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Here you are, Mr. Jan Mahnic has a request to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u266	Thank you, Vice President. With what I have just heard in the end, the Minister has disarmed me of all further words. That was what I wanted to hear about the complainant withdrawing. I wanted to ask you below whether there is anything new about last Thursday when the mayors of our municipalities Gorenja Vas - Poljane, Žiri, Železniki, Škofja Loka and Medvode gathered on this bridge; you also visited them. There was a clear and loud statement that, if this matter is not resolved by 6 December, the Polish-Skopheloški script follows, which means that we will start Polish, Škopheločany and Selčani and the inhabitants of Medvod closing this bridge for all traffic. I'm glad that won't be necessary. Thanks for the answer. There is no need for the Minister to answer further, because I think today has gone public with a clear and loud message that the bridge in this timeline, as you said, will. And that the next year will be the rehabilitation of all the other bridges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, is there anything else you'd like to add? [[No, no, ……]] Dr. Franc Trček will ask the Minister of Health Maria Mileyka Kolar Celarc. In view of the absence of the Minister, I would ask that you also define yourself to the way in which the answer is made.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u268	Thank you for saying that again. In some optimally organized society, the location of your stay should not determine the quality of your life. Unfortunately, Slovenia is still far from being optimistic. That's what we just heard on the bridge case. I regret to touch on some other issue where a person with this basic infrastructure of movement in time and space would also like to have quality care, regardless of the location of your stay. It's about health. And if I use the popular word in the last two, three days – health is one of the key Burkes that happens in Slovenia and should be resolved. As an MEP from Maribor, I cannot stop worrying about the problem of anaesthesiology at our University Clinical Center, which we share with most of the hospitals on our side of Trojan. If we go to calculate how many potential patients or residents one anesthesiologist or an anesthesiologist comes up with, we see that these differences are very different, very large. Those who are gravitating against the Maribor UKC are citizens of the second order; those who gravity against the bird hospital are citizens and third-class citizens. Some V.D. of Ljubljana’s UKC – who probably don’t know whether he has given up or won’t give up — somehow said why he would offer his employees when looking for a solution. For the time being, we still have public health care, which is advocated in the United Left. The district secretary said she was going to order some kind of control. And we need action. I therefore expect the Minister and her team to answer my question at the next oral meeting: How will the problem of malnutrition of anesthesiology in UKC Maribor and other hospitals in Slovenia deal with similar problems? Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u269	Thank you very much. We're done with this. I thank the ministers and ministers for the answers given. I hereby end the 1st item of the agenda, which we shall continue to vote on in about half an hour. I am adjourning the 13th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 3:40 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u270	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the votes of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 40th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on Consent to the Programme of Work and the Financial Plan of the Agency for Energy for 2016. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision, namely: The National Assembly agrees to the Programme of Work and the Financial Plan of the Agency for Energy 2016 of 30. 9. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 1. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 29th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Roma Community in the Republic of Slovenia following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Roma Community in the Republic of Slovenia is not suitable for further consideration. Mr. Dolinšek, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u271	My voice device's not working.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u272	Please try to pull the card. Try to pull the card out again and insert it again. There's a job coming up, a little patience, please. We're moving on. I think now, Mr. Dolinšek, is everything all right? Okay. Let me read it again. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Roma Community in the Republic of Slovenia is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 64 votes against 4. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjournment of agenda 39, which is the consideration of the draft resolution on the national housing programme 2015-2025. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the amendments tabled of 19. 11. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to the fourth chapter under point 1. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 43. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Chapter 4 under point 2. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 11 votes against 44. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Chapter 4 under point 3. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 11 votes against 44. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a resolution. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted in the second reading, the motion for a resolution would not be harmonised at the meeting of the home working body. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 67 votes against 6. [[The vote was 67.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 41st item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Draft Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014. We are moving on to a decision on the 2014 Draft Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia Budget. We vote. 76 Members and Members present, 56 votes against 15. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against 15.]] I note that the Final Account of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 34th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Minimum Wages in the framework of the Regular Procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Mr Luka Moon, on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, please explain your vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u273	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. In the United Left, we will support this change because with this change, the minimum wage becomes what it should be. So, at least we're getting close to this idea that the minimum wage would be an absolute salary bottom that the employer can't go under. Unfortunately, this final proposal does not fully achieve this because our amendments have not been adopted, but it is an extremely positive step. I am pleased that we have been able here practically all Members and Members, all Members of the Group, to take a step towards this fair initiative of trade unions and I just wish there were as many moments as possible in the National Assembly. We will, of course, vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u274	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SMC Group, Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u275	Thank you. Hello, everyone! Even in the SMC Group we are happy to support practically the entire assembly, especially because it is indeed a more fair definition of minimum wage, because now workers for night work, for holiday work and work on Sundays will receive supplements paid in addition to the minimum wage that should actually be basic. At the same time, we regret that this has not been done through social dialogue, as some collective agreements have allowed it to be understood that the minimum wage already contained all these supplements. These collective agreements have also been signed by trade unions, and it would be better if social dialogue were involved, not on the legislative path. However, this is certainly a step in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u276	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Jan Škoberne has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u277	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Of course, we welcome this change, which in some way follows the efforts already made by the government of Borut Pahor when the biggest increase in the minimum wage has taken place so far. Special attention should be paid to what colleagues from the SMC have also pointed out. Of course, this change in the minimum wage that is taking place with this novel proposal cannot be the last step. We must strive to achieve a real raise in due course, not only a fairer minimum wage, which in addition to Slovenia was such a unique one in Croatia. It is therefore extremely important that social dialogue continues to identify the economy in a fair pay for honest work the potential for growth, the potential to motivate employees, and, above all, that, as we achieve this today, we begin to reflect not only on how to achieve a standard of decent living, but how to achieve a standard of good living through further changes to the minimum wage. As has already been said, we will support the proposal in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u278	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, Mr Uroš Prikl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u279	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We will be happy to support this bill in the Desus Group. In fact, it is no increase in minimum wage, but an exception to those supplements that are called work on Sundays, work on holidays and work at night, which is a less convenient time. Of course, it is right and fair that this is not included in the minimum wage alone. We are also pleased that it has been practically achieved in this area of consensus in the National Assembly. It's a very rare thing, but that's what happens. We are pleased that this will at least help those workers, those workers who receive the lowest income, not to receive any more pressure on their social exclusion and an unrestrained material position. On this occasion, I can also point out that in the event of a veto in the State Council we will once again, if necessary, give our votes in favour and make this our sincere wish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u280	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 28th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Transport Act following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 67 votes against 6. [[The vote was 67.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government shall propose to the Assembly that, pursuant to Article 153(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, it adopt the following decision: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the Road Transport Act. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 71 votes against 6. [[The vote was 71.]] [[Against six.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 33rd item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Libraries in the framework of the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 71 votes against 5. [[The vote was 71.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 35th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Forest Management owned by the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on forest management owned by the Republic of Slovenia is suitable for further consideration. On behalf of the Group, the Joint Left shall have the floor of Mrs Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u281	Thank you for your word. In the Group of Members, the United Left will be maintained until this proposal. Of course, not everything is bad about this proposal, but we have some very serious concerns. I have already said in my position that as annexes to the law, some documents are missing, which would make it easier to assess the appropriateness of the management of state forests, as proposed by the Government. Let me mention the business plan first. There is no business plan. There is no business plan. The government intends to invest EUR 20 million in this company, but explains the planned investments on one side of the A4 format. Estimates of how much money we would spend on something are rounded to 100,000 euros and there is no basis for these estimates. The total cost of the necessary mechanisms is approximately EUR 10 million and the state investment, worth more than EUR 10 million, is justified in the same paragraph. There are practically no operating costs, there is also a company act, a contract between society and the state. In the public debate, the Ministry of Finance assessed that the proposal for a law poses a significant financial risk to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and that an analysis should be drawn up to show by financial data that the establishment of a company is prudent and will not create an additional deficit. But it's not like that either. There will be representatives of four different ministries in the Supervisory Council, but of course there is also no guarantee of good control over state-owned enterprises and the natural resources available to the company. This is about 235 thousand hectares of our forests. The way this company will be controlled, we can look at the case of SDH and DUTB. However, we welcome the decision to have workers in the supervisory board, which is a kind shift from the practice of this government to date. As I have already said, in the United Left we will abstain from this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u282	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u283	Thank you for your word. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the proposal to conclude that the law is a suitable basis for further consideration. The Forest Management Act of the Republic of Slovenia speaks of 20% of forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia. Given that there are also strategic raw materials in all strategic documents, it is right to try to organise management in state forests with a state-owned company. Of course, the purpose of this state-owned enterprise is to try to provide in the first place sufficient quantities for the wood processing industry, i.e. sufficient quantities of wood. Here it will be very important to establish a very clear relationship with the processing industry in relation to the quantity of wood available and according to the quality and type of wood. This can also result in long-term contracts with companies, which will also be crucial for the successful planning of the development of this sector. This is one of the important added values of such an arrangement, because if you allow long-term contracts to enable companies to plan their perspective, then they can also invest in technology modernisation, which is also a key element for making as much wood as possible in Slovenia, creating higher added value and creating, not least, more jobs. We are confident that this concept of law will follow this logic. Last but not least, the placement of Sneznik, which is also defined in the capital investment management strategy as a strategic investment, is in fact particularly, if I may say so, a decision by the State to be aware of the strategic nature of wood processing in Slovenia. These are the solutions provided for in this law and certainly a good basis for us to be able to have a high-quality debate at the Committee's second reading and to adopt a law that will contribute much to the creation of more jobs, a higher added value through wood processing. And that is certainly one of the most important functions of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u284	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Members, he shall have an explanation for the vote of the Magi. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u285	The forest and the wood are our key natural treasures. Our goal must be to have as many ordinary citizens as possible of our natural wealth. The law prepared by the Minister of the Jews does not lead in this direction. He's just not going to give that kind of results. It is difficult to understand why more than EUR 20 million would be invested in the establishment of a company if the proposers of this law say that virtually a majority or a large majority of the works will still be carried out by various companies through tenders. In other words, this means that we will continue to have this system of concessions, only in a slightly different way. If, on the other hand, the Minister wants the entire forest to be managed by a large state-owned company, why is it that the establishment of this company is again worth EUR 20 million. Why not buy the existing forest infrastructure? Recently, a million and a half million and more sold to the Maribor Forest Economy. There's a lot of shit about this marriage, but there's one thing that's very clear. Huge amounts of state money will be invested in this project and the results are uncertain. It is difficult to say that this law and this concept of law could be substantially corrected or changed in further consideration. If that were the case, then we'd say, well at first reading, let him through, and then we'll finish it in second reading. But this law and this concept cannot be completed, so in the New Slovenia Group we will oppose this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u286	Thank you very much. On behalf of the modern centre, Mr Danilo Anton Ranc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u287	Madam President, thank you for your word. And a good greeting to the Members of Parliament and to the Members. Despite the fact that Ivan and I did not equip ourselves with wooden butterflies today, we decided to support this law in further consideration in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party. Why? Because we find that wood is our greatest natural wealth and that this law also allows us to exploit this natural wealth throughout the reproverage, from logs to final products. Regardless of the debate that was also critical to cities, I have also seen that some members of the opposition with whom we were, after all, members of industry in the past have only recognized the good solutions in this law, and some of the proposals I thought were also appropriate to take them into account in the next process. In this way, we will also conduct a further public hearing process, and I think that even in this case, the Slovenians will be able to achieve so much wisdom and maturity and connect themselves in the same way as Austria, where a wider social consensus has been reached on such a similar project by all stakeholders in Parliament and others who are in some way involved in this area. So I also invite all those who may at this time have some thought of constructively participating in the further debate to come to an optimal solution for the good of Slovenia and all of us together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u288	On behalf of the Desus Group, Mrs Marinka Levičar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u289	Thank you so much for saying that. In the debate in the National Assembly and also in public debates, it was agreed that the concession method of managing state forests was not good, that much damage had been done and that this method should be changed. The concessions will take place in the middle of next year, and we have also agreed somehow that it is not appropriate to extend them. In our Group, we believe that the proposed law is a good basis for better management of Slovenian state forests. The debate has also shown that there are quite a few important comments and, as the Minister has also said, and we are such opinions, we will be able to take them into account in further discussions and in preparing for the second reading of the law and thus improve the bill. Our Group of Members will unanimously support this bill's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u290	Thank you. On behalf of the SDS Group, Mr Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u291	Thank you so much for saying that. Our parliamentary group will not support this bill. We will not support it because only a new state-owned company, which will be an intermediate phase, will be an additional obstacle to the entire forest chain to wood processing. For unclear reasons, the State has earmarked 20 million cash funds and 20 million guarantees for this project, without writing with one sentence what this money will be spent on – whether it will be for new administrative buildings, landowners or new forestry tractors, etc.? In short, there's no explanation. Secondly, the fate of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests is unknown. This law does not know what will happen to this institution and how the management of state forests will be carried out. And thirdly, we have not received any answer to how this chain will be established or how we will create this added value. It is clear that from the state forests there are about 500,000 cubic cubic metres of wood for cellulose, for processing for various panels and wood, for which there is virtually no industrial user in Slovenia. So for 500 thousand cubic metres from the state forests, there is no serious industrial user. On the other hand, there was no answer as to what we would do with the most valuable wooden ranges that we should use for veneer, cut or peeled, and there is no such industry in Slovenia. If the minister comes in with such an imperfect law and talks about how we're going to raise added value without having an answer to how we're going to do this, there's probably something wrong. Thirdly, the Minister did not present any serious added industry in this area, not a single measure, as far as tax relief for the industry is concerned. This is the way to do this project, as the court camps, working at the Institute of Agriculture, imagine, will not do. Industrial growth is organic if you want to develop the wood production industry, you need to accompany it with some measures, not with a vague EUR 20 million and 20 million guarantees. This law cannot be supported, so it is a single nebula in this area. There is also no answer as to what will happen to those employees who are currently employed by concessionaires. These are about a thousand 500, and the law does not give a complete answer, and the minister did not answer these questions either. We will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u292	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Breznik has an explanation of vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u293	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I'm gonna keep going where my buddy Tanko's done. I heard that debate yesterday. Dear colleagues, you say you know the wood industry. Look, in developing this, like wood coming, which brings some identity to Slovenian masters once, I'm just going to ask if we believe this story, personally, all of you here. I'd like to see today when I walk into your homes, how many wooden windows you have, how much handmade furniture you have at the private table and so on. Do we believe this business? Continuing what we did for that second phase, wood production. Is it not ironic that we are the third richest country with wood, that we have a company in Maribor Lestro-Ledinek, which works the best woodworking machines in Europe or the world, and on the other hand we do not have finished products with high added value. What policy does this government and all these socialist governments have? Looking ahead – how many public buildings are co-financed by the state, which are wooden? Today we have techniques where we can make multiple buildings out of wood. What are the incentives? The government, as far as I know, is reducing the relief, as my colleague Tanko was saying, for investments, i.e. investments in those serious machines, etc. Look, we're talking phase two, the demand for small customers, and phase three is school policy. How many times a SDS client has proposed a dual school system, it is those who would be masters who could use this wood and give it that typical added value. None of it. We go back to the old socialist times, we want to make some big conglomerates of socialist companies and invest 20 million euros there. Dear colleagues, at least those who say you're liberal can't see outside the box! It's sad. And we're going to stay and stagnate, we're going to be poor, because we're going to buy a chipmunk, everything that the Austrians throw away. It also begins in the National Assembly. I'm sitting on a squirrel. That's the whole story, dear fellows. This is the whole story of this panache, this poverty, this unpredictability. This marriage cannot be supported by a man according to his own household. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u294	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Mr Ivan Škodnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u295	advertised to Mr. Breznik. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u296	No, an explanation for the vote on its own behalf, Mr. Škodnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u297	Then explain the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u298	In your own name, that's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u299	Thank you very much. Look, I was among those who advocated the development of the forest and forest chain in Slovenia, and I also somehow said that there are still many things that need to be determined that this is actually just the beginning. As far as I'm concerned, I'm serious, but I'd still say I have a lot of furniture at home. And I invite all Members to come and see. And the first to find out that I was lying is the next day I will resign from the parliamentary or parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u300	Mr Jože Tanko has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u301	Thank you so much for saying that. I talked earlier about state forests, which account for about 20% of all Slovenia's forests. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u302	I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u303	and from these forests there are more than 500,000 cubic metres of wood, for which there is no industrial consumption in Slovenia. [[…]] If we multiply it by 5, plus the share of private forests, we get 2.5 million cubic meters. Calculate or say how much of this, those who think otherwise, will be processed after this law additionally in Slovenia. Not even a cubit anymore. Because this law does not give rise to any incentive investment measures for the timber industry. The purpose of this law is only to have a state-owned company run it instead of concessionaires. Unfortunately, these government officials were unable to control the situation. The Institute for Forests has prepared 10-year forest plans for all of Slovenia, for private and state forests, made annual plans with sections by departments and not even the Fund of Agricultural Lands, nor the Institute for Forests have managed to control what is happening in these forests. And now we're going to give those who haven't been able to do that into the hands of a commercial function. That's what you call another step forward. And you hope that because of this state foresters will do this, they will do something for the wood industry. Nothing's gonna happen. This law is only the beginning, EUR 20 million in cash and EUR 20 million in guarantees is the beginning. Tell me, what's the end of this story? If you have a serious business plan, if you have any idea what will happen after each year when this law is implemented, come with numbers on the table. Let's see how much investment, where they're going to be, what they're going to invest and what things are going to be. This marriage cannot be supported and we will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u304	Thank you very much. Mr Lah has an explanation in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u305	Thank you very much. I'll just keep going, too. Look, we're gonna give 20 million to better forest management. This means cutting, getting wood and then exporting this wood abroad. Why don't we give these 20 million and that $20 million guarantee for wood processing, where we could create the added value? See in 2012 and 2013 we lost 2 000 300 jobs in agriculture. Most of all of the gentlemen. We're not getting any new jobs here. We will lose those thousands of 300 to thousands of 500 workers in concessionaires, when they will now have to cut and harvest wood at half a price, and I fear that they will do this instead of our workers in neighbouring countries, where the cheaper labour is, and with those Bosnian locusts. But ours will be out of pieces. That'll be the result of that. Why don't we just stay in the woods for a few years and grow and wait for the time to come when we're going to organize the wood processing industry and we're going to spend this wood at home? All are likely to have a nose connection, the Fund of Agricultural Lands, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Institute of Forests, because these concessionaires are private companies. And the most successful of these concessionaires, who's been cutting all over the country, is GG Bled, who owns the church. Now they must be cut off, and former brothers from neighbouring countries must be brought up to cut at a minimum price. And this wood will drive out. As my colleague Tanko has already said, they have not done well in their professional work, and now they will do commercial work. And they're going to hire a few more, and on the other hand, we're going to lose more than we're going to get. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u306	Mrs Iva Dimic has an explanation of her own voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u307	Thank you very much, Madam President. As our group leader has already said, we will vote against it in the parliamentary group and I will vote against it for one reason. I am convinced that the State's involvement in the economy does not bring any positive effects. I would understand that the state would intervene in the economy in order to create incentives for the start-up of the wood processing industry. However, there was no talk in the very law of encouragement. I have already asked the President of the Government a question and I have also concluded my vision and also the intention to set up a state-owned company of two political parties. As the law is ready, I think yesterday's debate was just a confirmation of this, so I think that the matter needs to be stopped a little bit and looked at the solutions. Especially in view of the fact that we have at the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests and also at the Institute for Forest Experts who can manage Slovenian or state forests, they are not at the same time what has already been said today, either marketers or commercialists who could bring this wood to market. That is why I feel like setting up a company for one or two political parties. It's also said who's supposed to be the director, and now I'm not going to call it, it's totally unserious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u308	Thank you very much. Mr Joseph Horvat has an explanation in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u309	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! My vote will be that I wish to inform the Slovenian public that this law is not suitable for further consideration. There were too many strangers. Some were also shown by coalition colleagues and colleagues. We don't really know if it's some holding company, how many more parts will he generate. And it is true, as colleague Iva Dimic, president of the Committee on Agriculture said, that everything will be a little clearer when they appoint the first director. It is likely that there will have to be another debate, or coordination, first within the coalition, where there will be interruptions. Surely we will also have discussions in this composition on the staffing and operation of this newly established state-owned company, which will manage state forests. If we are having marathon discussions today on the governance of the state property managed by the Slovenian State Holding and on staffing, there has recently been a marathon debate on this. Believe that there will also be a socialist conglomerate, about this socialist combination once again we will have marathon discussions and I fear, yes, that this will be another option, one opportunity for the political parties' bankers mainly from the left political province. So the concept is wrong, it is not in line with our view of the economy, with our view of governance, it is not in line with the New Slovenia policy, because we say that politics must withdraw from the economy, so of course I oppose this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u310	The explanation of vote in his own name is given by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u311	Thank you for your word. I'll hold on. When I listen to this debate, I can agree that this policy is left, but the left is in the human sense when someone is left, and the left is on this side and the whole street here. When I listen to this debate, I can't help but avoid a debate about overcasting, a sector more controlled by the SLS, but I would probably have more control over SD now. Now we've started talking about human resources instead of talking about the wood processing chain. Even if I did not live so close to Austria, even if I did not have the key of a judicial expert and an engineer for this area, I am in favour of the Bavarian-Austrian work. New Slovenia has good contacts there. There the country is very involved in the economy all the time, so that they can teach you this once and for all. As this debate is going on right now, as this marriage has been done in a foolish way, I am afraid that the skullrs will have the most of it. Of course, it's a nice one phrase to pull out and say, uh, wood processing chain that collapsed in a quarter of a century, but something else is this whole story to establish back. Otherwise, my parents are going to beat me up a little bit. In fact, my friend Tanko here described the problem in the most graphic way. After all, it is also the profession from which it comes. All this has to be done. The way he's trying to get in here, he's probably already whistled the skulls out of luck. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u312	Mrs Vojka Shergan has an explanation of vote on her own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u313	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! 20% of the forest is owned by the state. So far, forest management has been completely ineffective, as has been noted for years. It is time to make a change, and this is now the first step towards these changes. That's why I'm going to support this marriage, because we need to move from words to actions.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u314	We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on forest management owned by the Republic of Slovenia is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 45 votes against 20. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 20.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as a working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 36th item of the agenda, this is the first consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Act on the participation of workers in profits. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the participation of workers in profit is suitable for further consideration. Mr Miha Kordiš has an explanation of vote on behalf of the United Left Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u315	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. In the United Left we advocate the sharing of profits among workers, not that this share of profits is voluntary and depends on the flies and will of individual capitalists, as is the case now, we advocate that the sharing of profits between employees must be compulsory. We have damn good reasons for that. The first reason is the principle reason. It is the workers, the employees who create all this value, and it is right that they participate in the fruits of their work. And sharing profits among workers means exactly that – participation. However, we also have macroeconomic reasons for doing so. We know that the Slovenian economy needs an increase in internal demand, the sharing of profits among workers can make a significant contribution to this demand, while at the same time the compulsory sharing of profits among employees would also stimulate businesses to invest in investment and development, rather than some privileged owners paying dividends. These are all the reasons why in the United Left we stand firm on the mandatory share of profits among workers. We will also support this law that is before us today. Far from achieving our standards, it opens up some options that we cannot ignore, even if we face a government alternative that wants to cement the existing non-functional profit sharing system among workers and wants to cement some voluntary conversion of capitalists and employee dependency, working collectives from their flies. We'll support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u316	The explanation for the vote on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members shall be mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u317	Thank you so much for saying that. All of us who want more profits to end with workers will today support this law, we will vote in favour of the proposal to supplement the law on the sharing of profits for workers. In yesterday's debate, we all agreed that the existing law did not produce the results that those who wrote the law wanted. ørgo, let's add to it, there's a proposal on the table. I don't think anyone actually objected to the solutions enshrined in the law yesterday. If the law receives support, then the procedure will allow things to improve. We do not say that it is perfect, that things improve and even complement. We are full of mouths about the fact that it is right that workers participate in profit, but unfortunately then always comes, "but not today, but once again". And instead of supporting these changes to the law, we get an excuse for finding systemic solutions, which is already the hallmark of this coalition. Yesterday you explained to us about the so-called mini tax reform, which is already dead today, it's gone. These are the systemic solutions you're offering us, my well-respected colleagues. The law is not a table today and today you have the opportunity to ensure that it can be corrected in further procedures. And, yes, people can't live better than words. It's the actions that count. The three of us, of course, will support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u318	Ms Andreja Potočnik has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the modern centre Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u319	Madam President, thank you for your word. In the SMC Group, we believe that this law is not suitable for further consideration. We note that the existing law on the participation of workers in profits has not recovered, especially for two reasons. The first are administrative obstacles. However, the second obstacle was the one-year or three-year decision to pay for the application of tax reliefs. Yesterday, in the debate itself, the government told us that, due to these shortcomings, it will approach this change systematically and comprehensively in the context of tax reform with the aim of increasing the competitiveness of the business environment, reducing burdens and taking into account public financial burdens. As we know what the situation is, this law also states in its proposal that financial consequences should be, indeed, that they cannot be accurately calculated, but that they can amount to EUR 30 million. In the SMC Group, we believe that this law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u320	On behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u321	The New Slovenia Group will support this law because it is a solid extension to address the issue of the award of workers properly. However, I would recommend to the coalition Members that they do not follow these typical divisions of coalitions and opposition, and that every opposition law is already being suppressed and rejected by them, and at least at first reading they give them the opportunity to continue their journey and then upgrade it. I also said yesterday that this law before us is not entirely 100 per cent that it still needs to be corrected in certain parts, but if we reject it today, then we do not have this option. Today, this is a topic and it is necessary to make concrete decisions on this subject. However, I ask that you no longer justify your vote in such a way as to say that you will reject this because the government is preparing its tax reform concept. People of God, today your finance minister said he made a cross over that tax reform he proposed. So I don't know what we're dealing with now. And there's at least a chance and a chance that some story will continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u322	Thank you very much. In your own name, Dr. Duck, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u323	Thank you for your word. Of course, I will support this bill. Look, this debate is clear, although in the opposition we come from a variety of diverse ideological areas, but, not colleague Han, we agree that workers would be involved in profit. Clearly, a coalition that assumes absolute responsibility disagrees and seeks excuses. We've heard some debate earlier about 20 plus 20 million ease. Now, in this argument, there are these 30 million framework workers who could go bankrupt on the profit of the budget and at just once at the end of the world. Perhaps the worker would be more satisfied, but maybe productivity would be higher, but maybe there would be more wooden windows and fewer veneers, more wood and more tax. That's not what you're thinking. Good morning!
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u324	Any other explanation for the voice? In your own name? Mag. Alenka Bratusek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u325	Thanks again. I will, of course, support the marriage. And even those who are waiting for systemic solutions, let us uphold the law, the law can enter into force 1. 1. 2016, you are still looking for systemic solutions. This road isn't finished. But the tax reform, which was under public scrutiny, you buried yourself, although, by the way, with that tax reform, you simply wanted to abolish the tax on profits, a respected coalition, from SD to SMC. So it is possible that the way of that tax reform has ended the mini-tax reforms. And I would certainly not have undermined the world, but probably not Slovenia if the coalition had gathered so much courage to support any proposal that we are preparing in the opposition with good intentions — not for ourselves, but for the workers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u326	Thank you very much. Is there any other explanation for the voice in your own name? No, no, no. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the participation of workers in profit is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 39. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 39.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda, these are questions from Members and Members. A review of the draft conclusions of Members and Members for the debate on the replies of the President of the Government, Ministers, has been published on the e-club. In accordance with the proposal of the Ambassador, Mag. Alenke Bratušek will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Mir Cerar to the question of mags. Alenke Bratušek concerning the measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members shall be mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u327	Ethics, morality, high political legal culture. These are words that were full of Mr Cerar's mouth. We have committed ourselves to a policy that will bring stability to Slovenia and a higher political and legal culture. We have a tough trial ahead of us, but we need to make progress, a breakthrough. That is why I am primarily talking about raising the legal and political culture. Of course, it's not my words. It's the words of the Prime Minister. When we remind Mr Cerar of the irregularities today, he removes us by saying that this is an unworthy claim, obviously pointless, that our imagination is incredible and that certain comparisons are abominable. Unworthy claim, obviously pointless, the product of an incredible imagination and aboriginal comparison. When I heard President Cerar's response, I felt that I was not facing Mira Cerar, but someone else. The appointment of SDH leadership was nothing more than a transparent way to appoint a new administration that has approximately 15 billion of our assets in its hands. Mr Jazbec was appointed head of SDH to be an impartial, expressively fast shadow of the migrant crisis. That's a fact. It is also a fact that Mr Jazbec has employed Mr Lebn, State Secretary, who has illegally received an allowance for the Master's degree in hotels. You don't really deny it because it's true. And all these connections to Mr. Cerar seem perfectly fine. I suppose someone else would lead the government today if I said all that before the elections. At that time, the plate was turned to another side. Given that the 15 billion is large, I propose that the procedure for appointing the SDH leadership, the response of the President of the Government to my question at the meeting of the National Assembly, and therefore I suggest that you, your fellow Members, support my proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u328	We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 28 votes against 46. [[There were 28 votes in favour.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Jožet Tank, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to Mr Jožet Tank's question on measures to address the refugee crisis. Mr Jože Tanko has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u329	Thank you very much. Given that this migratory wave is continuing and the forecasts that this wave will continue to increase to the Prime Minister of the Government ask: Does the Government have ready measures to monitor the continuation or escalation of the refugee wave to ensure the stability of the border, human security and property, health and so on? Does the Government have developed measures and procedures to prevent the smuggling of money, terrorists, weapons and murder? Does the Government have developed measures to detect and prevent the emergence of possible terrorist groups in Slovenia? In his reply, the Prime Minister of the Government said that we are very successful in directing migrants, saying that we accept, to the maximum extent possible, we are registering and allowing them to travel to the following countries, that we have proved to be one of the most competent countries, both in terms of the Schengen border and in terms of transit, that we are preparing for the possible escalation of this migratory wave, and for this very purpose we have begun to set up certain steering fences at the border, that we have shown public recognition from neighbouring countries that this immediate level of threat in Slovenia is not increased, that every migrant is not a terrorist, that we have ready measures to carry out individual checks on those entering this country and so on. Not to mention. You can see from the answer to no question raised by the President of the Government, and you can also verify that the President of the Government has not answered. He did not reply and it is more than normal to demand that this issue be discussed. These are fundamental security issues, Schengen border control, control over migratory-terrorist flows – indeed, refugees who in some ways have special status are also involved – but those fundamental things that have caused terrorist activity in Paris and in other countries must be ensured in some way. The President of the Government has not replied to this and we will support the proposal to hold a debate in the National Assembly on this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u330	We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 51. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Luk Mesc, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to Mr Luka Mesca's question on the establishment of a wire fence at the border with Croatia. On behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, the United Left shall have the floor of Mr Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u331	Thank you for your word. Prime Minister Miro Cerar promised new ethics and morals before the elections, but after the elections he obviously decided to register in the history of this country as the prime minister, which allowed the military to interfere in civil affairs and surround the country with a barbed wire. For this one, he chose a very important anniversary. The decision to build the fence fell on the 26th anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall. And on the 26th anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall, Slovenia became the 5th country in Europe to decide on this shameful action. I asked the Prime Minister in my parliamentary question about what this fence really serves. The crisis that we have has not yet proved to be a security issue or, in those aspects that we have seen in Paris, it is necessary to know that the fence of no terrorist will stop and in this way will not help in any way. At the same time, it is an extremely expensive measure, expensive to build a fence, even more expensive to maintain. In the general collapse of the budget lines, it is unheard of that you are for a measure for which the Prime Minister was unable to explain exactly what to do, how to answer the questions raised by the refugee crisis, how to answer the logistical question, how to answer the organisational question, how to answer the humanitarian crisis that we are seeing. He couldn't answer any of these questions. However, we will still invest tens of millions of euros in this measure, instead of opting for significantly more careful measures that would actually start to solve the problems where we have them, in logistics, in organisation and so on. Maybe with that money, we could hire some people. They'd be less unemployed and everyone would be happy at the end of the day. This is how we look very strange in the world, like the Orbans of Hungary. We have a picture of the future that people outside our borders, in front of the barbed wire, the families, the children there will freeze, and they will starve, and we will wash our hands and pretend that this is not our problem. But apparently that doesn't bother the Prime Minister. I therefore propose that we discuss this and have a serious debate on such measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u332	Thank you very much. Is there any other explanation for the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? No, no, no. In her own name, Mrs Violeta Tomić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u333	I'll speak for myself. I'll speak for the Belokrans. As Belokranjica, I must say that I am personally deeply affected by this disproportionate action on the Kolpa River. For the first time, this fence, this wire, the razor wire, is a huge cost. It was set up by the military and not by the police, even though the police were supposed to impose such technical obstacles. We have so far imagined technical obstacles more than technical ones, but this is by no means a proportionate measure. The worst part is that the Belarusians are not allowed access to the Kolpa River. They can't power the livestock like they always do. They can't process their land. The farmers will be at the farm. They can't sail, they can't fish, they can't travel. In short, how the Belokorans, who traditionally live with the Kolpo River, will live with a wire fence that is dangerous to humans and animals. We've already seen the pitfalls dying in distress. Animals are used to power up by the river. Croats can bathe peacefully on the entire Kolpa River, while Slovenians, we will – what? We'll go to the Croatian side, just like we go to the Croatian sea if we want to enjoy the Kolpa River. All so that the refugees don't come across, but we'd rather watch them, as our colleague Luke said, on the other hand, die, get caught up in the wire. What are we gonna do? We will look calmly and thus demonstrate our humanity. No, mate, that's not gonna happen. Silent talkers will do even better for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u334	In his own name, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u335	Thank you for your word. I'm even sadder than Violet because I was actually born in the White Land. I was born in one village, in another village across the Kupa or Kolpo, as you know her, I have a good part of the family. When I've got a suitcase full of everything, I'm going to drive a little "chun" now I guess I'm gonna have to have a "wikstang" with me. If we're being a little more serious, I'd like Cerar to answer me, where he'll replace the backlog for an additional technical obstacle in the White landscape he already has. Will it replace the tourism gap with a few camps and so on? I could give you names. I could tell you the names of these people. Of course, it is easy to do this propaganda that you have all grasped, except for 2,3% of the citizens in this country do not live by wire, do not encounter refugees. How this story got mixed up and how you spoke two or three months ago, and you wouldn't, how you turned up and up, talk more about you, talk about what Miro Cerar's name is, someone else with a haircut. But of course, we will all suffer the consequences. The refugee crisis will not stop, there will be more crime on it, which will also put you in certain places to "train" and "lifrali" refugees scattered forward. But what you could do with the 80 million you put behind the fence, before we had a point, you could probably hire a thousand police officers and finally stop the human resources setback. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u336	We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 8 votes against 64. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 64.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Vinko Gorenak, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of the Interior of Mag. Vesne Györkös Žnidar on the question of Mr Vinko Gorenak on the preparations of the Republic of Slovenia for the next wave of migrants at the borders of the Republic of Slovenia. On behalf of the SDS Group, Mr Vinko Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u337	Thank you very much. I've been writing this question. Ten. It is said that we are ready for the arrival of migrants who came two days later. Of course, the Minister's Rules of Procedure allow her to be absent, but according to my conduct, she is only absent when she is abroad. The hills are not yet abroad, and Šentilj is not where she was going at the time. The leadership of the National Assembly should probably take care of the presence of ministers. This answer, which she gave today, went in the direction of talking about how we did a job this month and a half successfully. A successful task would have been done if it had been 17. This year's 10th, when the second migratory wave began, they respected the Schengen. This means that those who have conditions for entry or those who apply for asylum at the border would be allowed to enter the country. These were, I think, about 85, that's what the minister said today. She forgot to say that 45 had already escaped, and she said they were still being treated somehow. Nor would the State of Slovenia, through its territory, release a quarter of the million people who entered this country illegally entering the territory of the European Union illegally, and at the national costs of Slovenian taxpayers this quarter of the millions of people were brought to the border with Austria at that time. What is the difference between this action and that of Croat, who smuggled seven minors into Austria in Pinka, is also a clear answer. There's no difference. Although he used his gasoline, the state of Slovenia does so with the help of the police at the expense of taxpayers. The debate in this National Assembly on this proposal is therefore absolutely necessary. And that's not the only question. It's also a security issue. More and more data are showing up as those who have contributed at least indirectly to what happened in Paris, so I would expect support from this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u338	We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 49. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with Mrs Violete Tomić's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mrs Irene Majcen to Mrs Violete Tomić's question on the number of shooting wolves in the period from 1 October 2015 to 30 September 2016. Ms Violeta Tomić has an explanation on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u339	Thank you for your word. The system of protection of wolves in Slovenia is not adequate. In accordance with the Council of Europe's Habitat Directive, the State must, inter alia, demonstrate that the following conditions are met. First, it must show the state of the population, second, that this situation is favourable and third, that the shooting measure will not endanger the favourable condition of the species. The Republic of Slovenia has not yet demonstrated compliance with any of these conditions in the treatment of the wolf population in Slovenia and is therefore in breach of the Habitat Directive. Slovenia has not shown positive results from these three tests. There are no data on the real state of wolves in Slovenia and the shooting is based on the 2012 monitoring data when the Life project SloWolf ended. This is not only a problem with the estimated shooting of wolves and the violation of the Habitat Directive, the whole area of protection of the wolf in Slovenia is problematic. In the field of criminal protection, for example, it is problematic to use the concept of wild animals, game and endangered and diluted species in an inconsistent manner. And why is it important that you support my request for a general discussion? Because NGOs or, more precisely, the NGO Legal Information Centre have already brought the matter before the Administrative Court. They are also threatening to sue the European Court of Justice. In short, we're threatened with damages and damage to state property. I therefore ask you to support my proposal for a general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u340	We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 6 votes against 58. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 58.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Vinko Gorenak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of the Interior, Mag. Vesne Györkös Žnidar on the question of Mr Vinko Gorenak concerning the measures taken by the Ministry of the Interior to secure the state border with the Republic of Croatia. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, on behalf of the SDS Group, please explain your vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u341	There is no explanation for the vote, but there is a request for a debate on the Minister's response. On the question of Parliament this month, I asked whether the Minister intended to do something, finally, with the so-called asylum law or with the Law on International Protection. In particular, all the countries of the European Union on this path, including Germany, including Austria, have changed asylum legislation during this period. Germany has already introduced only food and accommodation, without any monetary compensation. The State of Slovenia is still paying monetary compensation to asylum seekers, etc. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in fact, from 1 September, when I first heard it, until today, because today it has been repeated by the Minister to prepare the law. Yes, and this Friday will be. We have been listening to this from September 1st until today, when it is the end of November, and we see that the Government has done nothing. That's why I asked the secretary today if she would support what we put in yesterday. Our proposal yesterday goes in some direction, first called according to the title of the law, and the title of the law is the Law on International Protection, meaning that you protect someone in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia for as long as he cannot return to his country. Our legislation, and partly European legislation, is more designed in the sense that, of course, they integrate those people who come here. There is no reason for situations to appear in their country that are safe so that they do not go back there. Furthermore, in our law we also propose that all monetary compensation be abolished immediately and that these people simply be provided with food and housing. It's like staying in an asylum and three meals. Furthermore, all European countries have already written down, more or less, that the individual who asks for asylum and at that time commits a crime or offence shall be suspended and the individual shall return from where he has come, after the prescribed procedure. Slovenia is still not doing so. In an asylum home, they put him from the first floor to the second floor if he does something like that. In short, these are the important changes that I have also asked the Minister today whether they will support them. But she gave me her answer, and you won't believe what the government will take on Friday. And if you compare what I said to what the government will do on Friday according to her words, in fact, the government is applying the same law. As true as that may be, I don't know, but we will certainly meet these two legally here in the National Assembly, and I hope that you will be accepted as soon as possible. Nevertheless, my question of mission is also broader, so I ask for a debate on the other two issues that I have had today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u342	Thank you very much for your explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 48. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Jožet Horvat, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Mrs Irene Majcen, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, to Mr Zdravko Počvalska, on Mr Jožef Horvat's question on high concessions for geothermal water. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u343	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I have asked the question of emissary because there have been major changes recently, mainly in the field of concessions and in the field of the limitation of geothermal potential. These changes are, of course, negative and have a negative impact on the Slovenian economy. At its 65th regular meeting on 5 November, the government adopted 9 regulations on thermal water concessions from wells. The economic operators that have received the regulations and those who are still awaiting them are deeply concerned and indignant, as such high concessions do not tolerate the calculation of their products. As a result, this can lead to major job losses and even closures of health care facilities and businesses. All of this would pose an extremely dangerous risk to the entire regional economy and social well-being, in particular, of Pomurje. Due to its high concessions, it is particularly at impact, as said, Pomurje where it is located about 65% of geothermal potential. Many strategies for the development of Pomurje were written on the exploitation of geothermal potential. Here are also the most examples of good practices in the exploitation of geothermal potential. We are talking about the Termal I aquifer, which is located in Prekmurje at a depth of about a thousand and a half feet [200 m], the temperature of water up to 50 degrees Fahrenheit [50 m] of Celsius, and the thickness of this aquifer is about 50 meters [50 m], an area of about a thousand and 400 square miles [400 sq km]. This is an energy thermal potential estimated at 580 million giga joules. Fantastic heat potential. You get the same heat effect or heat energy if you smoke about 14 million tons of oil. And now all of a sudden, studies show that this geothermal potential has dried up or dried up. If the use of this geothermal potential has so far been irrational, it would have been a waste of time for the inspection services to act. It is now quite a shock to all those who exploit geothermal potential because they are high concessions and because it will be necessary to reduce the quantities of liquefied water. Colleagues and colleagues, if you want good to Pomura or North-East Slovenia, this decision on the debate in the National Assembly should also be supported, otherwise I think that the exploitation of geothermal potential is over if this goes on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u344	Thank you. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 21 votes against 44. [[There were 21 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with Mr Zvonk Lah's proposal, the assembly will decide in the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšič, to Mr Zvonk Lah's question on the third development axis. On behalf of the SDS Group, Mr Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u345	We are talking a lot about the third development axis as well as other development axes. We are talking very little about this middle part of the third development axis. Of course, the northern part and the southern part are much more necessary than this middle part. However, also for this medium part a variant study was carried out and the most appropriate variant was also processed from a transport-economic perspective and the study was negative. It is now intended to amend this, look for another option, but I fear that due to the very difficult configuration of the terrain, this study will also be negative in view of the expected turnover. On the other hand, the congregations are working hard, and especially the economies in these municipalities of the valley of peace, to in some way update this road from Sevnica to Trebnje, because the economy in this valley, which is quite strong, is in an unenviable position. I asked the Minister which way this would go and when can we expect this part of the third development axis to start building. However, the Minister himself notes that things have not been cleared, that it will be again in the spring, and I am afraid that it will be difficult for us to wait for this part of the third development axis. On the other hand, the municipalities are also preparing implementing spatial acts for the transfer of the state road in order to in some way satisfy the economy, which is here in a rather substantial start-up, and the state is likely to have to decide what it will do. I think it would be a better and much cheaper way to modernise this state road, because probably in those years, when we get to the beginning of the third development axis, these funds have already returned to the state budget through the economy. That is why I think that there should be a debate on this issue and probably some others. I hope that colleague Han will also vote in favour of this decision because he is driving in this direction every day, and he himself knows well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u346	We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 42. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Tomaž Lisca, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Mumorr, and Mr Boris Koprivnik, Minister of Public Administration, to Mr Tomaž Lisca's question on the level of the average for the municipalities for 2016. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 44. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Tašner Vatovec, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mrs Irene Majcen to the question by Mr Matej Tašner Vatovec on the impact of the Skenjska Iron Station in Trieste. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 46. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with Mrs Anja Bah Žibert's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Mramor, to Mrs Anja Bah Žibert's question on the overall costs related to migration policy. On behalf of the SDS Group, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert shall have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u347	Thank you very much, Madam President. We know that up to now about 260 thousand people have illegally crossed the Slovenian border. Only now are about 5,000 illegal migrants. I asked the Minister of Finance how much money has been spent so far. The answer in the first phase was not exactly appropriate, because it almost seemed that we would get more money than we used to, and then finally somehow there was a figure of around €11 million. This amount does not include all that the Slovenian municipalities require and warn today, which is economic damage and damage to individuals. Given that there was no time in this brief reply to see what these funds were spent on, it was not possible to know, after all, very important whether there was sufficient resources for the so-called security check of migrants, whether in fact we had done the maximum in this area and, on the other hand, we might also have saved some costs as regards the transport of migrants from one end of Slovenia to the border. That's about 2 million and a half euros. I propose that this be discussed so that we know whether in some areas we can be more rational and allocate those resources to where we are limping. These must be security measures, because, given what is happening in our neighbouring countries, this is still very important, and above all, it is tax money. Let me add, the funds promised from the European funds, this is recognised by the Minister himself, are inconclusive, as this is an area of eligible and then unjustifiable resources. Here, the Minister was unable to respond in concrete terms, which are unjustifiable funds, and we need them today. Therefore, in my view and in the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the debate on this issue is more than necessary and welcome.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u348	Thank you. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 52. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Pojbič, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for Dr Anja Kopač Dark to the question of unemployment by Mr Marijan Pojbič. Mr. Marijan Pojbič, on behalf of the Group of Members, explain, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u349	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Together we can see that nothing has happened in the area of unemployment in Slovenia since the rule of this country. We still have close to 110 000 unemployed, we have about 30,000 people on the verge of poverty, and absolutely nothing happens where it is crucial, and that is that this government would once understand and really come up with concrete proposals to this Parliament before all the Members and Members we are here, and have gone to a real solution where it is crucial. And this is support for the Slovenian economy. If we don't do this, this government obviously isn't capable of this coalition, because all that has happened this year and a half, which is run by this government and this coalition, is that we have remained in our word. And those words are often just words. Of them so far, we have not proposed any concrete solutions to this point. And I think that is why it is very important that we discuss this issue here in Parliament. All those who are aware together in this House of how important this question is, please also support this proposal today. I think that if we do not all really approach some different views and solutions together, the situation of Slovenian people will deteriorate from day to day, the results will be worse from day to day, poverty will increase, unemployment will rise again, and these are not good prospects for the future of the Slovenian state. Therefore, please support a broader debate in the National Assembly on this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u350	We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 45. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Franz Breznik, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition. Mr Franz Breznik's question on the price of renting agricultural land was addressed by the de facto jedan. On behalf of the SDS Group, Mr Franz Breznik has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u351	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In 1964, Jože Pučnik wrote in the Alternative Chamber of Perspectives a remarkable criticism of the agricultural policy of today entitled Problems of Our Agriculture. He got two years in prison for that. In 1987 Matjaž Klobčič made a famous film by Tonet Partljič My ata socialist ball. This scene still lives out of this movie today. In Slovenian Gorica, there are many Jozetov Malekov, these small farmers who cannot because of the abnormal agricultural policy of mags. Diana jedan has survived in recent years. We have small closed farms, which are not economically independent, which have less than 7 hectares and survival in the Slovenian Mountains of these Slovenian farmers is very few. I'd like to ask for your support. I would like to ask you to support this debate where activist Vanč would now be Minister of Agriculture Dejan Židana to tell you how to survive Jože Malek. I'm telling you, it's not for 10 years, it's not a debate as to whether or not it was Tito Rus. However, there is a debate on whether Jožet Maliks who truly live in the Slovenian Gorica will be able to survive. And today, Dejan Židan, along with the Fund for Agricultural Lands, makes their lives even more sinister than they did at the time. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like you to support me in this debate, which could also have the title My Minister, a supporter of socialist fists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u352	We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 47. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Jožef Horvat, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Justice of Magi. Goran Klemenčič on Mr Jožef Horvat's question on the competences of the board of creditors in insolvency proceedings. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group – the Christian Democrats have a shame, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u353	Thank you very much. I asked the Minister of Justice whether he was monitoring the implementation of Article 119a of the Financial Action Act in insolvency and forced termination proceedings. My request for a debate is logical because the problems with this article, namely Article 119a, I will tell you why. And it is also logical because the minister announced a thorough change to this very complex law at the beginning of the following year. This Article 119a was adopted in May 2013 and gives the creditor committee the power to discharge the manager on the basis of the discretion of the majority of the members of the creditor committee and to replace it with any person who fulfils the conditions for the manager. Why did I actually ask that question? From a specific case that's brutal. This particular case is called Aha Mura, d.o.o. - in bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u354	Peace in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u355	The creditors' banks, I'll just say which, NLB, share company, you probably all know, SID banka d.d., Banka Koper, d.d., and Gorenska banka d.d., did not agree with the bankruptcy manager's proposal, which suggested that some of the funds would also be received by workers. Therefore, these banks simply demand the replacement of the bankruptcy manager in their greed. In fact, the case has been brought up since the beginning of the formation of a board of creditors, since a representative of workers has been expelled from the board of creditors. In doing so, it should be pointed out that priority claims workers have a recognised claim of EUR 5 million, EUR 342 thousand 217, for the Murina workers to be understood. Ladies and gentlemen, this is about less than 10,000 net minimum wages. And now the banks also want this money, and they don't give a shit about the workers who created all of Mura and so on, so fuck the banks creditors so that the healthy core, which has been preserved at this moment in life and is employed by about 250 workers, develops further. The banks will now replace the bankruptcy manager, set up after the 119th article of the aforementioned law of theirs, yes, their man, who will set up the money for them, and we will patch up another bank. Whoever's gonna patch the financial hole in Mure's workers, we need to talk about this. And I'll be happy to have your support. We will, of course, support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u356	We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 43. [[29 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 30th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for an Insurance Act under the ordinary procedure. The National Assembly is on Thursday, 19. 11. In 2015, the second reading of that proposal was carried out. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the assembly, on a proposal from the Government, as a proposal for a bill, decided that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, at that meeting, it would hold a third consideration of the draft law. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on the third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the second-reading meeting of the home working body or the National Assembly would make the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. On behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, the United Left has an explanation for Mr Luka Mesec's vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u357	Thank you. One last time. If we have previously found that one of the positive benefits of the Forest Act is that the Slovenian Forest Company, d.o.o., will take into account the principle of labour co-management, it is said that workers will also sit in its supervisory and administrative authorities and that this insurance law, which we are now adopting, will no longer be in the insurance companies. In view of this law, under the cover of the transposition of the European Directive, directly expels the labour representative from the insurance sector, because it simply sets undue conditions at systemic level for the labour director and the working members of the supervisory boards so high that no one can reach them except the former executive, who are not workers, but are managers. It is said that this law converts labour co-ordination into management co-ordination. We have pointed to this in the United Left both at the Committee and in the general debate, we have both tabled amendments, the amendments have been smoothly driven by the coalition, although we have shown that this is unconstitutional, that this is inconsistent with the European Directive and that there is no argument for this, except for some arbitrary action of this government, which has obviously decided to bring an end to economic democracy in this country. Another problem with this law is that it violates the coalition contract at the point of supplementary health insurance. We have warned that in this law there are extensions, not only that this supplementary health insurance is maintained, but also that long-term care is converted into a form similar to that supplementary health insurance. We have put the coalition here under a challenge, with our amendment to this article of the law, to commit itself to fulfilling its coalition commitment, that is to end supplementary health insurance, but this amendment has not gone over. We have before us a law that is potentially unconstitutional, we have a law that violates the law on the participation of workers in management, we have a law before us that will not make one of the main promises of Mir Cerar before the elections, that is the abolition of supplementary health insurance. In the United Left, of course, we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-11-24-SDZ7-Redna-13.ana.u358	We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 58 votes against 8. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 13th meeting of the National Assembly. I have another announcement. Members and members of the Committee on Defence and the Committee on Foreign Policy will be informed that a joint meeting of the two committees will be held in a large salon in 15 minutes. Thank you so much and good night.
