ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 10th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Tanja Zink, Mrs Anita Kolesh, Violeta Tomic, mag. Jana Jenko, Mrs. Marinka Lefty, mag. Marko Pogačnik, Mr Ivan Hršak, Mr Janez (John) Janša, mag. Branko Grimes, Matjaž Hanzek, mag. Branislav Rajić, Dr. László Göncz, Mr. Franc Jurša, Mr. Marijan Pojbič, Mrs. Vesna Vervega by 12 noon and Dr. Vinko Gorenak. I invited the Minister in his resignation from Dr Stanislavo Setnikar Cankar to extend the agenda, the Governor of Banka Slovenije Dr. Boštjan Jazbec to the 1st item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 10th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Monday, 2 March 2015, with a reference to the meeting. I will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. I have proposed to the National Assembly that the agenda be extended by informing the President of the Government of the resignation of Dr Stanislava Setnikar Cankar from the office of Minister of Education, Science and Sport. You have received an extension proposal and it is published on the e-club. Would you like a word from the government? No, no, no. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? No, no, no. We are moving on to a decision on enlargement itself. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been unanimously adopted. The National Assembly will consider the voting enlargement as A1. the agenda item immediately following the establishment of the agenda. After the enlargement has been determined, we can move to a full vote on the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as received by reference and adopted by enlargement. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I note that the agenda for the 10th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been adopted. We're moving to A1. On the day-to-day basis, this is to inform the Prime Minister of Dr. Stanislava Cankar of the function of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports. The President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, wrote to me by letter dated 12. 3. 2015 She announced that Dr Stanislava Setnikar Cankar had resigned from her post as Minister of Education, Science and Sport. In this regard, the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, notes that Dr Stanislavi Setnikar Cankar has ceased to serve as Minister of Education, Science and Sport. Days 12. 3. In 2015, the President of the Government informed the National Assembly that, pending the appointment of the new Minister of Education, Science and Sport, he would be acting alone. Dr. Stanislavi Setnikar Cankar, I thank you for your cooperation and wish them the best in their work. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to one. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a recommendation on the role of the Slovenian Bank in the recapitalisation of banks and the removal of owners of subordinated hibrid financial institutions. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of 88 Members and Members with first-signed mags. Matthew Tonin. With regard to this proposal, the Group of 46 Members and Members, with their first signature, Matthew Tonin, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Magi applicants. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u2	Dear colleagues, President of the National Assembly, Secretary of State, Governor of the Bank of Slovenia with the team! We gathered for an extremely important meeting of the National Assembly, at a meeting which must be the beginning of the search for answers to at least two questions: Why did we have to rehabilitate the Slovenian banks and have we overpaid the rehabilitation of the banking system? Both questions require clear and understandable answers. We owe this to those who work hard, pay taxes every day, and thus help Slovenia in life. These people do not have time to read extensive materials and explanations, so politicians and governors expect clear explanations as to how and why their money was spent. Because we want to get to the right information and because we want to know the truth, we have signed a call for today's extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. It does not happen many times, but it is this time that politics is united. Understanding the resolution of the banking system is crucial if we are to prevent such errors in the future. Answers to questions about why we had to rehabilitate the Slovenian banks and how their rehabilitation was carried out can be found in those who also participated in these processes. Among them, Banka Slovenije certainly had an important role to play, if not a key role. Today, when we request answers from the Bank of Slovenia and its Governor, Dr. Boštjan Jazbec, this cannot in any way constitute an intervention into the independence of the central bank. We have a right to know how our money was spent. Independence cannot be understood as the absence of any responsibility. I am convinced that the fear of the Vice-President of the European Commission, Dombrovskis, is completely exaggerated. For whoever has an argument has a clear conscience has nothing to fear. Parliamentarians will use only the legal tools that we have at our disposal to come up with answers that we are also interested in with regard to the resolution of the banking system. Today's meeting is such an opportunity to start a process, the final result of which must be knowledge that will prevent the possible third resolution of the banking system. Let us not forget that today, Slovenian banks are being rehabilitated for the second time. Since we obviously have not learned anything from past mistakes, we are now where we were 25 years ago. The report of the Bank of Slovenia recently received and the findings of the parliamentary commission of inquiry on banks from the previous mandate indicate that the Slovenian banks were brought to their knees by the agreed economy and the cooperative management of Slovenian banks. Symptoms of an agreed economy and bank management are the granting of credits to beautiful eyes, for which the uncles have agreed somewhere on vampires in Ljubljana, or the multi-annual discussions on credit committees for credits worth 10 000 euros and the approval of several million loans without discussion. The reasons for the bank hole are more or less clear. The question for all of us in this room is how can such practices be prevented in the future? In the light of past experience, I believe that the privatisation of banks is the only real answer. The practices of state banks, which in the past have been more and more similar to the practice of the wild west, can rightly be asked where it has been and what the regulator has been doing, what the Bank of Slovenia has been doing all this time. For example, the former Governor, Dr Marko Kranjec, stated in July 2012 that the Slovenian banking system is stable and that banks are adequately capitalised. What changed in a good year so that the banks needed more than EUR billion of additional capital at the end of 2013. I am convinced that Banka Slovenije should self-critically ask how they could have misjudged the situation in the banking system in recent years. Have they perhaps underestimated the dangers of the economic and financial crisis? Could it have been a superficial monitoring of the banking system? Did they hide the seriousness of the situation in 2012 or did they needlessly dramatize and inspire the criticality of the situation in 2013? These are questions that certainly require answers. In 2013, the European Commission requested a review of the quality of bank funds and a stress test for a representative part of the banking system. The reviews, based on the bottom-up method, showed that by 2015 the deficit would be €4 billion 46 million under the baseline scenario and €4 billion 778 million under the unfavourable scenario. How is such a difference possible in a year? How can the Governor of Banka Slovenije declare that the banking system is stable in 2012 and a good year later the same banking system needs almost EUR 5 billion? Banka Slovenije explains that stress tests have been carried out in hypothetical scenarios, which are highly unlikely to actually happen. For example, in stress tests, the capital of the bank was estimated at liquidation value. To put it simply, the liquidation value means how much the bank would have endured from its debtors if all its debtors had failed — a low probability that this would have happened. In the case of NLB, the bank itself assessed its capital to plus EUR 835 million and the stress tests targeted it minus EUR 318 million. Only NLB has more than a billion euros in differences. As a result, the question arises whether the Bank of Slovenia, in cooperation with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, has challenged input data or input parameters of stress tests and the use of a negative scenario to determine the needs of bank capital before the European Commission. Although Banka Slovenije claims that the implementation of stress tests after the approach from below is normal practice and that this approach is defined as the only option allowed. If that were true, then this should also exist for Spain, which carried out stress tests in September 2012 both from the bottom up and from the top down. Finally, both outcomes were taken into account in Spain. Therefore, the final combined result saved Spain from not having to apply for financial assistance from the troika, but was able to draw funds from the ESM fund for the rehabilitation of the banks. Since Banka Slovenije has coordinated the so-called execution conditions for all stress tests – TOR, which define the scope and method of implementation, it should also explain why it has agreed to use the negative scenario as the one with which the Bank’s capital was determined if, in the case of Spain, the combined system was allowed on the other hand. Stress tests taken a year later, 2014, according to the Governor, Dr. Boštjan Jazbec, only confirmed the 2013 results. In order to believe this, the Governor should effectively explain why European countries used input parameters that were measured in different time periods. The entry parameters used by the ECB in its stress tests in 2014 for as many as 11 of the 18 members of the euro area deviate from the spring forecast of the European Commission, in different Member States. At four, it was changed upwards, with five downs, the worst, far and far from Slovenia, although the latest data was already showing the opposite in Slovenia. After the economic and financial crisis, Slovenia behaved for several years as if nothing had happened. When Germany and many other countries have already repaired their banking systems, we have obviously been blinded to the greatest order of things. We missed the precious years when the ECB and the European Commission even allowed non-conventional bank resolution measures. So, smart banking systems were being rehabilitated, and then they started talking about the rules of future recovery. Dr. Igor Masten claims that by timely resolution of the banking system we would have paid at least three times less for it. As I said, today's meeting can mean the beginning of searching for answers, what went wrong in the process of rehabilitating our domestic banks or what we could do better. The taxpayers who have contributed their money to stabilise the banking system, as well as those who have been through the removal of shares and bonds with all their assets, expect that the policy and Banka Slovenije will clarify the process of the resolution of the banking system itself. There is often speculation in the public, in whose interest we are Members, when today and in the past, and even in the future, we are looking for answers regarding the rehabilitation of the banking system. Some say we're helping financial speculators. I answer that among those who lost their assets, many honest citizens who worked hard and who sincerely trusted in the Slovenian banking system today remained empty. Some say we're stopping the privatisation. I answer them: Why would finding the truth stop privatisation? The truth can only give more arguments for privatisation. Some people tell us what we're even getting excited about, because all the money we're supposed to pay is supposed to be in our banks. I answer them to forget the millions of interest we will be paying in all the years ahead for the borrowed money we have invested in the banks. Respectable founders of conspiracy theories! All I want to know is the truth that will prevent such anomalies in the future. I would like to give today's debate the answers to a number of questions that drive imagination or justifiably point to the site of the rehabilitation of the Slovenian banking system.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u3	The proposal for a recommendation was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of Mrs Urska Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u4	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear representatives of the Bank of Slovenia, Ministry of Finance, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 22nd emergency meeting. 3. 2015 The proposal for a recommendation on the role of Banka Slovenije in recapitalising banks and erasures of owners of subordinate hybrid financial instruments, submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Matthew Tonin. Within the time limit set, the amendments to the proposal were tabled by the United Left Member Group, on the 1st point, on a new 2nd point and on the title of the proposal. Members and members of the Committee were also presented as working material with a proposal for an amendment to the Committee by the Joint Left Group, to the title of the proposal for a recommendation, and the amendment tabled by the Joint Left Group was withdrawn. In addition to the proposal, the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, Banka Slovenije, the former Minister of Finance, the Society of Small Shareholders of Slovenia and the All-Slovenian Association of Small Shareholders of Slovenia were present. The introductory supplementary explanation was given by Matthew Tonin to the proposal for a recommendation on behalf of the applicant, who presented the key reasons for submitting a proposal for a recommendation to the National Assembly and the content of the proposed solutions. The representative of the Government further explained the situation which led to the conduct of a thorough review of banks owned by the majority of the state in 2013 and the implementation of the measures. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia transmitted to the National Assembly a Report on the situation and measures to ensure the country's appropriate policy regarding the results of stress tests. However, the report does not cover a more detailed description of the stress tests and the way in which the deficit was covered, since this was addressed by the report already received by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of a decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of 8. 1. 2015 by Banka Slovenije. Although the Bank of Slovenia had already published on its website the Report on the Careful Review of the Banking System and the Measures, which described the implementation of stress tests and presented basic assumptions, at the end of 2013. The representative of Banka Slovenije drew attention to the already transmitted Banka Slovenije Report on the causes of bank deficits and the role of Banka Slovenije as the Bank's bank resolution regulator in 2013 and 2014, on the effectiveness of the corporate governance system of state-owned banks and the way in which they dealt with the consequences of the capital inadequacy of business banks, in which they responded in some way to the issues of carrying out the quality review of assets and stress tests 2013 and 2014 and which are mostly exposed to the material for the committee meeting. In the debate, some members of the Committee discussed the correct and timely action taken by Banka Slovenije and the appropriate situation in communication with European institutions, the appropriateness of the method of conducting stress tests, the active role of Banka Slovenije in detecting illegal acts, the necessity of cutting the owners of subordinated financial instruments and the very success of the resolution of the banking system in relation to the effects in the real sector. At the conclusion of the debate, the representative of the Government pointed out that the rehabilitation of banks should be seen in a broader and legal framework for the stabilisation of banks and, in particular, in the long term, in assessing the effects of these measures. On the question of whether recovery has been overblown, whether the capital hole has been properly identified and whether the measures have been implemented in a comprehensive manner, it is necessary to be aware of the principles of State aid which are such that, once an economic operator has received State aid, it is not possible to apply for it again in the next 10 years before the European Commission. The assessment of the Ministry of Finance and the Government is that these measures have been balanced, comprehensive and that they can also be fully endorsed in terms of improving Slovenia's financial ratings and legitimate performance in international financial markets. The fall in interest rates and access to financial markets has thus greatly facilitated both the country and those financial institutions that have received the measures. The Committee considered and adopted the amendment tabled by the United Left Group to point 1, and the other amendments were not accepted. The Committee voted together in all parts of the act and adopted them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u5	In order to present my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Method Dragonji.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u6	Mr President, honourable Governor, Members and Members of Parliament! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has already provided a number of clarifications and materials on the implementation of measures to strengthen the stability of banks in 2013 and 2014. On the recommendation of the National Assembly adopted in January 2015, the Government submitted to the National Assembly a Report on the situation and measures to ensure an appropriate State policy regarding the results of the stress tests and informed it of the Report on the implementation of the stress tests by the European Central Bank in 2014. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance have so far provided a number of clarifications on this issue at the meetings of the working bodies of the National Assembly. We would also like to draw attention to the fact that it is based on the decision of the National Assembly of 2. 2. 2015 Banka Slovenije has prepared more detailed information on the causes of the capital deficit of the banks reviewed and on the role of Banka Slovenije in this as a bank regulator, on the effectiveness of the corporate management system of state-owned banks and on how to deal with the consequences of the capital inadequacy of business banks. On several occasions, the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance have expressed the view that all procedures relating to the resolution of the banking system were legally implemented in 2013 and 2014. The measures to strengthen the stability of banks were carried out on the basis of the results of the review of the quality of the bank asset and the carrying out of the stress tests, with the supervision of the steering committee involving representatives of the Bank of Slovenia, the Ministry of Finance, the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the European Banking Authority. The so-called deletion of the owners of subordinated hybrid financial instruments has also been a necessary measure for the recovery of banks that have shown negative capital in 2013 and has been carried out in accordance with the European Commission rules on State aid to banks which, inter alia, provide that a bank that does not comply with minimum regulatory matters must not be granted State aid until the equity, hybrid capital and subordinate debt instruments contribute fully to the smoothing of possible losses. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia estimates that measures to ensure the stability of banks in 2013 and 2014 have been implemented in a comprehensive, proportionate and successful manner. They were carried out according to the principle of burden-sharing between different stakeholders: shareholders, owners of subordinated financial instruments and between taxpayers or the country which bears the largest part of the burden on the resolution of the banking system. The successful rehabilitation of banks was one of the basic conditions for economic recovery and for the credibility of Slovenia in international financial markets. The conditions for the drop in interest rates on Slovenian government bonds were created. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not oppose further discussions that would help clarify the reasons for the implementation and the manner in which the bank recovery is carried out. In this regard, the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Slovenia have already prepared in the past several materials and information that the National Assembly subsequently addressed. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports the recommendation proposed by the Group of Members and Members following the discussion at the Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. It takes into account the very large public funds invested in the rehabilitation of Slovenian banks, but it is first of all expected that banks will resume their credit activity and thus boost economic growth. The negative opinion of the Slovenian public on the overcapitalisation of banks is also linked to the fact that banks that have received measures to ensure the stability of banks are no longer willing to accept risks that are essential to the banking business, that they are underactive in the market and that, under the conditions of credit, they are not competitive compared to other banks that have not received measures. Therefore, there is a need for a shift in state-owned banks, their increased market activity and liability. The strategy of the Slovenian banking system, which was presented by the Ministry of Finance to the public debate together with the Capital Investment Management Strategy of the Republic of Slovenia, is an opportunity to verify the strategic objectives and orientations of the Slovenian banking system, especially the state-owned banks, the commitments made to banks under the aid provided to banks, also taking into account the new market realities and the new strategic challenges facing both the Slovenian economy and the banking system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u7	To present the opinion of the Bank of Slovenia, I give the floor to the Governor of Banka Slovenije, Dr. Boštjan Jazbec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u8	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! In opening, I would like to point out the six key doubts that you have expressed in your request to convene today’s extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which must be explained or denied. First time. The request lists several claims on alleged overly harsh scenarios and consequently exaggerates the recapitalisation of Slovenian banks. Facts. In 2013, the prudential review of Slovenian banks carried out external independent advisory companies precisely to ensure the credibility of information on the actual situation in banks and to dispel doubts and speculations from the domestic and foreign public about the actual state of banks and the need for international assistance. The independent advisory companies carried out the review on the basis of the tested methods and standards of the comparable checks already used in the European Union, for example in 2012 in Spain and in 2011 in Ireland. The 2013 review thus included three stages. The first phase, a review of the quality of bank funds, is what is called an Asset quality review. Second phase, stress tests from below on individual data of individual banks. And the third phase, stress tests from above down on aggregate data reported by banks to Banka Slovenije. First, a quality review was carried out to assess the actual value of our banks' assets. This review has shown, simply stated, how much credit and insurance valuations in our banks’ balance sheets were too optimistic or how many real bad loans are in our banks. This review was carried out by Deloitte and Ernst & Young, after which all six banks — NLB, NKBM, Abank, Factor Bank, Probank and Bank Celje would have negative capital. A review of the quality of bank funds was followed by stress tests from below carried out by Oliver Wyman. These tests take into account the individual position of each bank, its business model, the type and characteristics of its portfolio. They show the surplus or capital deficit that a bank would have had if a macroeconomic scenario had actually been implemented over the next three years. Since the purpose of the test is to show how much capital is needed by banks in possible acute situations, the worst result of any scenario taken into account shall be taken into account when determining the capital requirements. Notwithstanding the fact that, in accordance with internationally established supervisory practice, the result of the stress tests from below is always used, an above-down ventilation test should be carried out in order to ensure quality. The approach from above shall be implemented in order to verify the consistency of the methodology used in stress tests from below. The aim is to implement both approaches to stress tests taking into account the same scenarios and methodology, while the data entry in both types of stress tests is different, a little later. The first doubt you wrote down was the question on the basis of which almost 10% of the decline in Slovenian GDP was foreseen in the adverse scenario by the end of 2015. The assumptions for an unfavourable scenario were set by the European Systemic Risk Committee for Slovenia, as for other countries, by taking into account the shocks, possible exacerbations to the basic scenario used in the spring macroeconomic forecasts of the European Commission for Slovenia. Whether the predictions were too harsh or not, it can be speculated today. But remember that in 2012, 2013 the required yields on Slovenian ten-year bonds ranged between 6% and 7%, a clear reflection of Slovenia's financial and other stability. In an adverse scenario, for example, housing prices were projected to fall by 30 % over the three years. This seems great, but let us note that the total price drop in new housing properties from the highest value in 2008 to the beginning of 2014 fell by almost that much. At the same time, the average rate of unemployment registration almost doubled between 2009 and 2014. It should be borne in mind that a careful review of banks is not an exercise out of the accuracy of the forecasting of economic indicators, but is used to verify the capital adequacy of banks. Stress tests are aimed at verifying the ability of banks to survive even in the most unfavourable circumstances in the future and to evaluate the necessary capital to do so. I also need to clarify the concept of the liquidation valuation of banks' assets because this concept shows a great deal of misunderstanding and confusion. In view of the fact that the review of the quality of the assets revealed the assessment of the bank’s actual situation at the end of 2013 and the confirmation that banks would go bankrupt without recapitalisation, the Bank of Slovenia had to establish the liquidation value of the bank’s assets in the event of bankruptcy for the further action of the Bank of Slovenia. This is a value that would be available through the cashing-up of the bank's assets and in the framework of the bankruptcy procedure to pay the bank's liabilities. This assessment was also made by an independent consultant and showed that subordinate obligations of banks would not be paid, nor would it be sufficient for the entire payment of depositors. This also means that ordinary depositors whose deposits are not guaranteed would not receive their claims in full. Another claim concerning the different valuations of the New Ljubljana Bank. Banka Slovenije has never manipulated or pre-edited the results of the bank review in 2013. Pika. The Bank of Slovenia has concluded contracts with or has only aligned with the leased external companies on the implementation framework. I also stress in particular that the identified capital deficits in 2013 were fully confirmed by the pan-European tests carried out by the European Central Bank in 2014 and showed an additional minimum need for capital in Nova Ljubljanska Banka and the New Bank of Maribor. Facts. Firstly, as in other banks, NLB first carried out a review of the quality of the assets at day 30. 9. In 2013, Deloitte and already this review showed negative capital of EUR 319 million in the NLB due to the necessary revaluation of the asset. Although NLB itself reported on day 3. 9. 2013 EUR 835 million of positive capital. The difference is due to the pre-optimistic valuation of the bank's assets themselves. Another time. Following a review of the quality of the bank's assets, the NLB followed a stress test based on the methodology from the bottom up and the methodology from the top down. And Roland Berger ran the tests from above down, so it is by no means held that in the framework of the review the result of Roland Berger and then Deloitta was first obtained, but vice versa. We have taken both results into account because they have carried out different stages of the review, as I said before. Thirdly, however, the fact that the capital deficit has been calculated for all the banks covered by the methodology from below by almost €1.5 billion higher than the capital deficit calculated by the method from above. If I make it easy. Stress tests from below were made on individual data from each bank. A total of 4,253 credit maps were reviewed, which is not a paper sheet, but are data files, while tests from above were made on aggregate data from banks. The EUR 1.5 billion difference is therefore, if I say again, part of the story of the over-optimisation of our banks in the valuation of funds. All these facts and additional details are also publicly available on 122 pages of the long test methodology report, which has been published on the Bank of Slovenia’s website entitled The Comprehensive Report on the Careful Review of the Banking System for more than a year. All the capital values for individual banks receiving State aid and the related procedures of Banka Slovenije are explained in detail on pages 69, 70 and 71 in a report submitted by Banka Slovenije to the National Assembly on 3 March and is also available on the Banka Slovenije website. The third claim from your request speaks of alleged pressures and motives to wipe out small shareholders. I reiterate that the review was carried out by external independent advisory companies and that Banka Slovenije did not affect that result. Pika. I can't imagine what a debate today would be like in the National Assembly if the Bank of Slovenia were to do the calculations on its own. I'll point out two facts. First, the banks were in very poor condition, which was confirmed by external independent reviews in 2013 and in 2014, and secondly, with the protection of the financial stability of the banking system, the banks had to be recapitalised, which was possible only through state accounts. This, according to European Union rules, represents state aid. Such measures shall be subject to strict restrictions and requirements which must be met to ensure that such aid is admissible. The rules laying down the criteria for allowable State aid are being amended in the direction of greater protection for taxpayers. As from 1 August 2013, the banks' financial burden on taxpayers is owed to shareholders of banks, including minority shareholders and holders of subordinated capital instruments. These are rules of deletion that have been transposed into the Slovenian legal order by approving the Banking novel, while it should be pointed out that the recapitalisation under State aid is not the usual operation of the State as an investor or even owner, and that the state recapitalisation in the EU is a single and extraordinary aid in extreme need, so the other instruments are not effective. The fourth question arising from your request or request for a reference to this sitting: On what grounds can we say in Banka Slovenije that banks are not too recapitalized? The fact is that Slovenian banks are not too capitalised, as comparative data show, which you can see again on page 23 of our report. The capital adequacy of Slovenian banks is still little below the average of the European Union in 2014. However, according to its own data, NLB had 17,6 % capital adequacy at the end of 2014 and the NKBM Group had 23.3 % adequacy. The capital available to the bank is the main instrument amortising the shocks caused by the banking crisis. As it operates in a more risky environment, the capital adequacy of the NLB Group is still greater than that of the German banks, and therefore the Slovenian banks need more capital. Fifth statement on disclosure of stress test data. The Bank of Slovenia is legally obliged to ensure the stability of the financial system and the security of deposits. After a careful review, only the summaries of the decisions were published because of the fear of deposit in banks with exceptional measures. In 2012 and 2013, because of the crisis in other EU Member States, we recorded very high outflows from Slovenian banks. In our view, caution was justified and within the framework of the legal framework. Today all reports are published in full. And now the sixth claim that the Bank of Slovenia is not one of the audited legal entities. That's not true. First of all, facts. Audit of the Bank of Slovenia is specifically regulated by the Bank of Slovenia Act. It is audited by an independent international auditor selected by the Bank of Slovenia under the Public Procurement Act and proposed to the final selection process – this selection is just taking place for a new period – where it is first examined by the Council of the European Central Bank and recommended to the Council of the EU, which also approves the auditor. The operation of the bank is also supervised by the internal audit of the European Central Bank, as well as by all other national central banks operating under the European System of Central Banks. In accordance with the provisions of the Banka Slovenije Act, Banka Slovenije reports on its work to the National Assembly, through its annual report and with Banka Slovenije's financial plan. Fourthly, the Bank of Slovenia provides all the information required by the National Assembly, of course, if there are no explicit legal restrictions. Fifthly, a representative of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is invited to the meetings of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, which are normally every 14 days. The considerations and doubts referred to in the reference to this sitting shall not apply. For six concerns I have mentioned the facts and all other explanations can be found in the report which was submitted to the National Assembly and published on the Bank of Slovenia website. Finally, I would just like to remind you that the situation we are enjoying today is a better macroeconomic environment than in 2013, and I hope that we will understand that the success of the rehabilitation of the Slovenian banking system is part of this story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u9	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u10	Dear Mr. President, well-respected High Council, good-bye! Banking systems in euro area countries have become a country in the country. I know this image is used for a lot of things, but in the case of European banking systems, it is literally true. Slovenia is a legal and social state on paper. National officials swear to act in accordance with the welfare of all citizens. Although we are a capitalist country, the Constitution requires that economic activity be managed in a way that also takes into account the ecological and social function of property. The banking system obviously does not work within the same framework. Mass lending of missed investments in the pre-crisis period was not in the function of sustainable development and long-term employment. The transfer of bank losses to the shoulders of the citizens that followed is not in favour of the welfare of the citizens. The fact that social rights are now being cut off at the expense of the rehabilitation of banks is contrary to the fundamental demands of the social state. The banking system is subordinated to a single principle enshrined in the Statute of the European Central Bank, that is to ensure price stability or, in other words, low inflation. And maintaining low inflation is, no matter what, an alpha and an omega of the interests of asset holders, because higher inflation means that their savings are losing value. Here it should be pointed out that even the US central bank, the Fed says, has the highest possible employment and jobs between its objectives. Where in Europe is this social function of financial capital? Why do we have the first fight against inflation in Europe, even if unemployment is 25 percent or more, as we now see in some countries of the European South? Next. In our case, we need to recall the way small shareholders and subordinated bond holders are to be released. No decision has been given to individual eunuchs to complain about. The banking system is therefore governed by certain rules, but these certainly are not the rule of the rule of law, this was an unlawful act, so I say that the banking system is obviously no longer part of this country. The banking system became a state for itself, escaped from the control of citizens and the state. The Centres like to point out that they do not want to get involved in a private initiative, but remember that in the banking system we have an institution that can replace any member of the board or supervisory board in banks, we have an institution that can decide for itself that a bank that is liquid under international accounting standards must be regarded as a bankruptcy firm, which has happened over the past two years, and on this basis it can dissipate anyone. This is a huge force that neither directs nor controls any democratically elected body. This institution, the Bank of Slovenia, has the same status as the Roman Catholic Church. In fact, it does not correspond to the authorities of this country, but, if I am a little cynical, to some holy seat in Frankfurt, which we citizens of Europe built in 2013 for 1.2 billion euros. In Slovenia we have to control institutions as Banka Slovenije, the Supreme Audit Authority, is the Court of Auditors. It has the right under the law to revise the functioning of all persons of public law and companies owned by a majority of the state. Banka Slovenije is a person of public law and is 100% state-owned. When the Court of Auditors sought only one explanation from Banka Slovenije in 2012, the management of Banka Slovenije arrogantly explained that the law did not provide for the transmission of information to the Court of Auditors. Obviously we have come into a state where Banka Slovenije can make her own laws. The report to the National Assembly, for example, says vehemently: "The Law on the Court of Auditors does not provide for the supervision of the Bank of Slovenia". That's what it says on page 93. Of course that's not true. The Law on the Court of Auditors provides for the supervision of all persons under public law and does not provide for any exceptions to the Bank of Slovenia. Even the Governor of the European Central Bank, Mario Draghi, wrote in his opinion of 2 March: "It would be possible, in principle, for the State Audit Service or similar authority to be granted powers regarding the activities of the national central bank." And the Bank of Slovenia, of course, denies it in some way. In fact, the only body that can formally control the Bank of Slovenia and Banka Slovenije does not challenge it, the National Assembly. The National Assembly could even resolve the governor or vice-governor if a worse breach had been found, but be careful, the regulation on how such a settlement would take place will again be issued by Banka Slovenije itself. So he's back in a position where he can make his own rules. Today, we will discuss the actions of the Bank of Slovenia and the Ministry of Finance in 2013, with €5 billion in public funds. We expect the Bank of Slovenia to provide us with information on the basis of which we can assess the appropriateness of its decisions. We expect the Government to allow it to investigate the implementation of these measures. We do not agree that the Government of Slovenia and Banka Slovenije, which they have been doing all the time, are making their own assessment of their work according to the principle "Kadia sued, kadija sued". We will not be satisfied with the argument that something is true, because that is what they say instead of allowing us to examine what is true by ourselves or through authorized experts. And we do not accept the excuse that something has been confirmed by the European Central Bank, because we answer to Slovenian citizens here, not to gentlemen in Brussels and Frankfurt. These are our basic and minimum expectations from the Bank of Slovenia, which has so far explained things many times without explaining anything. There are gaps in the explanations, and the lack of data available by Banka Slovenije does not want to be disclosed in order to be able to verify the National Assembly or any other authorised experts. And we just can't land on that anymore. The European banking system cannot function as the Roman Catholic Church. The national banks are indeed subordinated to the European Central Bank, but if the nationals of each Member State request responsibility from the national bank, they must also be entitled to the right. Now, as we have seen in the past weeks, we are in a position to interfere with the right that we as citizens and citizens have in Brussels and Frankfurt. As soon as, for example, the National Assembly announced that it would no longer close its eyes to suspicions of irregularities, the Governor of the European Central Bank, Draghi, sent a letter to the President of the European Commission, Juncker, to protect the independence of the Bank of Slovenia and its Governor. Last Thursday, Prime Minister Cerar received a letter from the Vice-President of the European Commission, Dombrovskis, saying that the Bank of Slovenia must remain fully independent. Three days ago, Finance Commissioner Moscovici forgot to our Finance Minister Dusan Marble that everything must be done to defend the independence of the central bank, otherwise this will have a negative impact on Slovenia's position. What is the lesson of this story? Clearly, financial capital does not suffer even the slightest democratic control. The full independence of the Bank of Slovenia and the European Central Bank, on the one hand, means full independence from the reach of citizens and national parliaments and any other form of democratic decision-making and, on the other hand, ensures full convergence with financial capital. We just can't land on this anymore. Banka Slovenije cannot and must not become an extraterritorial unit, which controls the entire Slovenian banking system at the same time. If I now address the issue that we are going to address today, the question of the resolution of the banking system is, firstly, on behalf of the United Left Group, I would like to explain what we are asking and why we are demanding it. First, I will briefly restore the sequence of events and point to the gaps in the interpretation that prevent the National Assembly from overseeing the work of the Bank of Slovenia, which is our duty under law and our duty to citizens. If any further clarifications are provided on the basis of this meeting on due diligence, they will have to fill these holes, which have now appeared in all the explanations we have heard in the past months. I will try to reconstruct what we have heard in the past months and what the Bank of Slovenia report says after some logical sequence of events. Because there are, unfortunately, no dates in the Bank of Slovenia report, so I will follow the articles. First article in a row. External auditors assessed the assets of the New Ljubljana Bank in autumn 2013 and found that the NLB on 30 September 2013 shows EUR 834 million of capital, plus EUR 834 million of capital. Second article in a row. When the National Assembly had already adopted a controversial innovation on banking and, once the decision on the resolution of banks had fallen, Deloitte carried out an additional review of the quality of the capital of Nova Ljubljanska Banka. And, surprisingly, ladies and gentlemen from Deloitt reportedly found that NLB needs an additional EUR 153 million. Third paragraph. The competent authorities in Banka Slovenije have therefore begun to deduct. They took the number 834 million, as assessed by international auditors, that NLB had capital on 30 September 2013, minus a thousand EUR 153 million and reached a known number of 318 million. Since then NLB has officially two data on capital on 30 September 2013. The first is that plus 834 million Euros of capital, the second is that it has minus 318 million Euros of capital. As far as I know, criminals are now interested in this difference because, of course, it is impossible under the Company Act to have two different data on capital in business documents on the same day, let alone that difference would be for EUR 1.1 billion. Article four in a row. In Banka Slovenije they found that the bank has negative capital. I'm just going to quote the Bank of Slovenia report here. "The data show a deficit, which is the cause of bankruptcy and the conversion of the liquidation value in bankruptcy situations." The decision states as follows: "The Bank of Slovenia notes on this basis that the conditions laid down in Article 320, paragraph 1, of the Banking Act for the initiation of bankruptcy proceedings are laid down in NLB." So the bank, which recently displayed 834 million plus in capital, is now suddenly being treated as a bankruptcy bank. Article 5 in sequence. Now that the bank was bankrupt according to a methodology unknown to us, in Banka Slovenije, the dispossession of small shareholders and bondholders took place. In the New Ljubljana Bank, these were €257 million, and given that EUR 318 million, as much as the bank was supposed to show a minus after the new calculations, more than 257 simply decided to wipe out all the holders of subordinated bonds. Article 6 in sequence. After that, the burden tests of Slovenian banks were carried out by two methods, from above down and from below, and the data are unfortunately only available for the entire banking system. According to an unfortunate scenario, the deficit from above was EUR 3 000 200 million and from below EUR 4 000 700 million. The difference between estimates is therefore EUR 1.5 billion. However, the recapitalisation was, of course, determined by a stricter estimate, that is, by the one showing 4.7 billion deficits. In the case of NLB, it was necessary to recapitalise, estimated at EUR 1 billion and a half and carried out with the funds of the Republic of Slovenia. Similarly, in other banks that have been assessed in this way. Like I said, in these articles, there's a kind of hole that I'm going to describe in the next few minutes. The first hole is an asset quality review. Gentlemen from Deloitta reportedly found that NLB needs to make an additional 1.1 billion weakening, thus coming from positive capital, namely 834 million, to negative capital, namely 318 million. NKBM came in the same way from plus 259 million to minus 67 million. This was the basis for the decommissioning of shareholders and bondholders and at the same time some basis for the calculation of the necessary recapitalisation of Slovenian banks. It kind of reminds me of that cartoon where the hero runs over the overpass and for a while runs through the air until he looks down, and only when he looks down does he fall. Similarly, NLB and NKBM were in bankruptcy for 3 months, but until they knew it, they were operating normally. It's not a funny story. It has a criminal and public financial dimension. According to the media, criminals are investigating how the bank could have displayed 834 million plus and 318 million minus. If Banka Slovenije is right, and it also states in all decisions that the capital of banks was negative, the administrations of these banks have committed a crime of fraud because they reported the wrong situation. But then the offence was also committed by the Bank of Slovenia, because such an administration, which manifests clearly false balance sheets, should be required to withdraw the licence for the performance of the work. Therefore, we expect Banka Slovenije to explain in detail the methodology of implementation and we will in any case require that the justification of carrying out this review be reviewed and that it be determined whether the review has indeed been carried out correctly. Another hole. The fact is that the burden tests were carried out under very strict assumptions and that in these assumptions the Ministry of Finance and Banka Slovenije could at least have influenced the final calculations by an opinion. We can know that the European Central Bank's forecast for the baseline scenario has been used. We also know that at the time the Government already had OMAR forecasts, which were relatively beneficial. The spring forecast of UMAR of 29 March 2013 forecasted a 1.9% drop in GDP for 2013 and a 0.2% increase for 2014. A scenario was used that was significantly stricter. He assumed that in 2013 GDP would fall by 2.7%, that it actually fell by only 1% and that 2014 would fall by 1.5%, but in fact we had 2.6% growth. Since it is not clear how such discrepancies can be obtained, we expect the disclosure of data and correspondence between the Bank of Slovenia and the European Central Bank, from which they will be shown how they have come to such numbers. The third hole is a load test. The deficit was estimated from above to EUR 3.2 billion and from below to EUR 4.7 billion. The difference I've already said is €1.5 billion. What's not clear here is what's next. Why did they automatically take the most negative assessment, but if Banka Slovenije says in the report itself that it is always necessary to combine the results in the end, and they also point to a similar matter by international credit rating agencies. Moody's says, "The regulators have never approved any single method, and no single method has ever been established as the best practice." Since current modelling techniques are inaccurate, several conceptually based approaches must always be applied. In this case, they have clearly relied on the same approach, the worst of all, but at the same time they do not allow us to look into the actual calculation, so we demand that this calculation be disclosed and that it is allowed for authorised persons to be verified on behalf of the National Assembly and citizens as well. The fourth hole is an assessment of the liquidation value of banks' assets under the assumption that these banks are virtually bankrupt. The former Governor of Arhar said this well: "The bank cannot be in the process of forcible settlement. It can be functional, it can be inactive, but it can't be in the middle of something." The fact is that these banks, with the exception of Factor Bank and Probank, were active banks in October and November 2013 and are still active banks today. Gorenska banka operates normally, although there has not been any dispossession of shareholders, and although it has not yet been dumped by 200 million public money, some in Banka Slovenije obviously want to. So why the liquidation value of the valuation of banks? On Tuesday, Ms Vice-Governor said quite freely that the valuations of the liquidation value had been made by the external operators and that she did not know how this had been done. In short, in Banka Slovenije they do not know the methodology. We have heard that in the autumn of 2013 after Slovenia students were transported and valued the value of property owned by banks with the so-called escape method, meaning that through the window of the car, you will assess how valuable the specified column is. To clarify such matters, we demand disclosure and appreciation and revision of these valuations. Before I go to the conclusion, I would like to stop for a short period of time at two events, this is the transfer of claims to a bad bank and stress tests in 2014. For the first time in terms of transfer of claims transferred to a bad bank. The fact documented by the Bruegel research is that there was a discount for the transfer of bad claims from banks to a bad bank on average around 70%, while in other European countries it was neither present nor neglected. This means that now the bad bank of assets purchased at liquidation prices can also sell at these prices, and will still formally deal with profits and will look fine. In the field, I often meet people who have experienced the destruction of businesses at the time of ownership and the process we are now witnessing is very similar. We are monitoring the dismemberment of businesses, the sale of parts, the sending of healthy companies to bankruptcy, the methodology for assessing transfer values and the criteria for transferring to a bad bank remain unknown, so it is time to make a concrete audit here and to try again until it is too late, at least here to prevent the occurrence of economic damage. Another issue is the stress tests from 2014 that the Bank of Slovenia and the Government are now using as an alibi for those in 2013. The Bank of Slovenia notes, for example, that the findings of the Bank's comprehensive business assessment confirm that the clearance of banks' balance sheets and recapitalisation in 2013 were carried out at a minimum sufficient level to ensure resilience in the event of adverse economic developments and optimal in terms of the use of public funds. That's a lie, of course. The fact is, in the case of Banka Slovenije, the assumptions of these tests differ greatly from actual economic trends. Compared with the unfavourable scenario in Austria and Slovenia, we see that in Austria, as an unfavourable scenario, minus 2% of the decline in economic growth, there was actually 0.9% higher economic growth, and in Slovenia, the difference between the negative scenario, which is 1.9%, to 2.6%, is 4.4%. Our banks should therefore choose a dynamic method because fresh forecasts were better than past ones. That's the first thing. The second point is that, on the basis of stress tests, we cannot say by any chance that the measures were carried out in 2013 at a minimum level. All these stress tests have shown is that in the event of a severe recession that is not, the capital of the banks for force would meet regulatory requirements. Because if differences between reality and assumptions were similar to those of Austria, it would be the opposite of banks having too much capital. The only way to determine whether the measures have really been optimal and exaggerated is to disclose the methodology and input data of all stages of the checks and to conduct an independent investigation that will definitively reveal a methodology that has been raging for months and that has cost us not least 5 billion national money. If I move briefly now to the demands of the Group of Members. Our Group expects that, following the adoption of this recommendation, which we will adopt today, the Bank of Slovenia will provide all the necessary information on the methodology and input data for each of the listed phases in the careful review of the banks carried out in 2013. That's the first request. However, the second requirement proposed yesterday in the form of an additional recommendation to the Government is to carry out an audit investigation into bank rehabilitation measures that will provide citizens with credible information on the following issues. Firstly, did more than €5 billion of public funds really have to be spent to ensure the stability of the banking system? Secondly, in the case of a bad bank, i.e. DUTB, it was, if I am not mistaken, jointly issued for a billion and 130 million euros of state guarantees. Were these guarantees really necessary? Were the transfers of bad claims evaluated fairly? This is another issue that we want to clarify. The third question is whether the disappearance of 101,000 shareholders, particularly NKBM shareholders, was really necessary. Of course, the vast majority of these small shareholders were not speculators, but ordinary people who were encouraged by banks and even politicians to invest their life savings in the shares of NKBM, and many lost all their savings. Fourthly, we would like to know whether there has been an inevitable write-off of almost 600 million Euros of subordinated claims. Here it must be pointed out that if the Constitutional Court finds a violation, the citizens will have 600 million euros in costs and it is essential that this matter be clarified. Fifthly, it is also necessary to clarify what is the real value of the held banks following the measures taken. NKBM is currently being sold, at least this is known data, for EUR 200 million. At the same time, the bank received 1 billion state aid in one and a half years, only in December 2014 it received EUR 620 million in money, remaining in high-income government bonds. And once again, I would like to point out that in September 2013, this bank was positive before it received this aid. Therefore, first of all, it is necessary to clarify what the actual capital position of this bank is, and secondly, to assess whether the sale of the bank is, at all, at such a ridiculously low price, indeed appropriate. If I finish. Contrary to projects such as TEM 6, in the case of the banking sector, it is not too late to revoke certain measures and recover citizens' assets. This is our shared responsibility of the National Assembly, and, of course, in the United Left, we call for today's decision to be taken and imposed on the Bank of Slovenia to finally issue a methodology and report on how the rehabilitation of the Slovenian banking system was carried out, and on the other hand, a thorough review of these procedures will be carried out, because only an independent and thorough revision of these procedures will show what has actually happened with the EUR 5 billion invested in the banking system by the State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u11	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u12	Thank you for saying so, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear Governor of Banka Slovenije Dr. Jazbec with colleagues, representative of the Government, dear colleague and colleagues! When we designed the content or reasons and arguments for the convening of today's meeting, there was only one thing that led us in the New Slovenia Group. If I take it down to one sentence or more in one word, it's the word "trust." And it's not just a word, we understand it as a value. And it is that perhaps today's meeting, regardless of the date and regardless of the day, could contribute to greater confidence in the institutions of this country, of course also the National Assembly, the Government and today in particular the Bank of Slovenia and also other banks in our country. We haven't even thought about leading any of the institutions of the country with this debate at the meeting, it hasn't occurred to us, as we say, nor to a place of thought. We did not even have the intention of stopping privatisation, and we have no intention of doing so, as some have told us, that with this meeting and this debate we are stopping privatisation. That is not true, on the contrary, because of increasing trust, we want to give it a greater acceleration. We also do not want to take the autonomy of Banka Slovenije with this debate. Ladies and gentlemen, at the outset, perhaps a little self-criticism of Slovenian politics, which, after 25 years after all the criteria, is actually full-year or should be full-year. But it is precisely Slovenian policy that has failed in this quarter of the century to do what developed countries have done, and therefore Slovenia still belongs to 8 countries with the largest ownership stake in banks, and, allow me to list these are: Costa Rica, Sri Lanka, Ethiopia, India, Iraq, Syria, Cuba and Slovenia. Slovenia is therefore the only one from the European Union. And I believe that on behalf of Slovenia, the Governor is likely to blush several times on behalf of the Council of the European Central Bank when his colleagues are seriously or jokingly asking him when Slovenia will still be on this magnificent list. And if we or Slovenian politics in the past had carried out their homework, privatized banks and, of course, economic operators, then today certainly would not have been this meeting, and I am sure that, or that we are Christian Democrats, there would not have been a bank hole. And here is actually a kind of key or the origin of the problem that we are talking about, and unfortunately we are going to be talking about for a long time. And we've been sent by people to work for people. People tell us home, but on the road, on the sidewalk and in the village, with very simple rhetoric, let us take away those who took them. I hope so, and we expect the Christian Democrats to move forward with this process of taking it from all of us. Unfortunately, the parliamentary commission of inquiry in the previous term, which wanted to determine who the culprits were for the establishment of the bank hole, as you know, was led by a fellow mag. Marko Pogačnik, she didn't actually come to any conclusions. On the contrary, one of the former representatives of the Bank of Slovenia, who I think is still – or not – running the branch of the New Ljubljana Bank abroad, told us that Members are actually stupid to deal with this problem the way we are dealing with it, and that we will not find people with names and surnames responsible for the bank hole, because it is a natural disaster that has happened. That's what we've been listening to, ladies and gentlemen. The last resolution of the banking system cost us taxpayers about €5 billion. This is the amount which represents as much as half of the annual expenditure of the entire state budget. This money, i.e. this 5 billion, had no state budget to pay for the bank hole and had to borrow it in international markets, of course at expensive interest rates. The taxpayers will have to pay back this borrowed money, plus the principal interest. We literally gave money to banks because we didn't become shareholders. Without the banks being required to repay the money invested, as did the other European Union countries, which also faced the crisis of the banking system. Its contribution to the resolution of the banking system was also to be made by the holders of subordinated instruments, small shareholders and bond artists who were flattered. According to the Government, their contribution to the rehabilitation of banks was EUR 600 million. Whether this discharge was legal at all, the Constitutional Court is still judging. As we've heard from the former Prime Minister of the Magnificent Government on the work of his mother's body. Alenka Bratušek, among the owners of subordinated instruments, was most of the funds and only a small proportion were natural persons. Small shareholders and bondholders were among natural persons for 24 million euros. These natural persons were bank clients who bought securities literally in bank boxes. Certainly, these owners are, in almost all cases, uneducated investors. These individuals have chosen to purchase securities on the advice of bank officials and have believed and trusted these advices. The question is how much they were taught when purchasing securities about the risks of losing their money. The empowering of these owners, i.e. natural persons, is certainly the most problematic, since in most cases it has affected them much more than other investors. This is about people who have saved small, I stress, small amounts, maybe a couple hundred or a couple of thousands of euros, which have been hard to save and have been dedicated to their social security in the future. Of course, the decommissioning of other holders of subordinate legal entities is also problematic. They show speculativeness as they were higher than bank interest and should be aware of the risks of such investments as trained investors. These investors must certainly be considered educated, but they could only assess the risks listed in the prospectus. Therefore, they relied on the applicable legislation and the risk of losing their investments only in the event of bankruptcy of banks. We are opposed to explaining that such investments were speculative. I'd rather say it was money management under the criteria of a good master. The main topic of today's debate is the role of bank supervisor, namely Banka Slovenije, both for the bank hole created and for the execution of the banking recovery process alone. In doing so, we refer to the responsibility of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia for their work. Up to a few months before the start of bank rehabilitation at the end of 2013, in the National Assembly, we listened to the confirmation of the then Governor, Dr. Mark Kranjec, that we have a sound and reliable banking system and that there are no grounds for concern. Then three months pass and a few billion bank holes are identified. At this point, we stress that the members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, of course in the current composition, should take full responsibility for this situation, otherwise the question of the meaning of the existence of a supervisor over business banks in general is asked. The representative of Banka Slovenije explained that Banka Slovenije had previously forwarded several calls for recapitalisation to those banks involved in the rehabilitation process to state and private banks. Why did not Banka Slovenije inform the National Assembly about these calls and the state of the banks' majority state ownership? Why did Banka Slovenije somehow mislead the National Assembly that the banking system is solid? Who's responsible for this? We, parliamentarians, as on-call culprits for everything that goes wrong in this country? But we parliamentarians certainly didn't, because apart from Banka Slovenije's annual reports, we had no opportunity to familiarise ourselves with the banking situation. New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we have repeatedly stressed that the resulting bank hole in Slovenia is not the result of the global financial crisis or to a lesser extent. To a greater extent, it is the result of the great incompetence, irregularity and illegality of work and, we can say, the corrupt and criminal activities of our elites, someone said gray eminences of the Slovenian banking system, and the one who said so today is the minister of this government. We also wonder whether and especially if, at all, we will call those responsible to account. If we listen to the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office, we can count on the first judgments on banking crime after ten or fifteen years, that is, never. In the meantime, many crimes will become obsolete, responsible members of administrations and supervisory boards will grow old and become sick or withdraw in time to a secure and fair term. We do not believe that procedures cannot be carried out in a year or two. If this works for other countries, there is no reason why this is not possible for us. However, we are pleased to hear from the Bank of Slovenia that it has also written some criminal charges. But we don't expect results, we don't expect epilogues in one decade, but we expect them in a reasonable time, so in two, three years. We do not believe that procedures can therefore not be carried out in a year or two. If this works for other countries, there is no reason why this is not possible for us, because we have European comparable legislation, which is why I have reiterated this claim. So what's the problem? In the absence of or the slow functioning of the investigating bodies and judicial authorities. So we know who to call to account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u13	The word is given by the Allies Alliance of Alenka Bratušek, for her mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u14	Nice greetings, respectable colleagues, colleagues, president! The rehabilitation of the banking system in Slovenia cost taxpayers EUR 5 billion. This is a huge amount of taxpayer money and it is right to clarify all doubts in this regard. It is therefore right that we discuss this and get answers to our questions. But it's not right that you're making accusations on purpose. The economic crisis, which hit the world in 2007, has also touched Slovenia very much. The fact is that the first measures to help the banking sector were taken in 2008. They were prepared by the former, unfortunately already late Minister Bajuk, and accepted by Pahor's government as one of its first actions. It is said that in Slovenia we dealt with the rehabilitation of banks for 5 years before we made a dot. Five years. It's a good thing the banking system in our country really didn't support it. The situation in the country when our government was in recovery was very different from today. 5 % of the decline in economic activity, 7 % of the country's borrowing interest rate, 130 000 unemployed, the country's credit ratings fell from the assessment to the assessment. Every day we were asked when we were going to go bankrupt and ask for help. Not if, but when. The messages from Brussels were: The situation is serious but manageable if the authorities act swiftly and decisively. Of course, today we can ask ourselves whether the assumptions for stress tests were correct, today, even because of the steps we have taken in the banking sector, we are seeing 2.6% growth. Today we may wonder whether 2% of the decline in economic activity is a realistic assumption, but unfortunately in 2013 this was our reality. And without rapid and real action, we could still face the decline of our economic activity today and record more than 1.6% of the decline in economic activity. It is right to remember why the rehabilitation of the banking system was actually necessary. Home typhoons and bad loans. Zvon One, Zvon Two, Pivovarna Laško, Istrabenz, SCT, Vegrad, also the company of the newly resigned State Secretary. Once successful companies ended their successful ways because of greed for rapid growth and the desire of managers to buy back, leaving taxpayers huge debts. When will these people be responsible for their more than a million, some even half a billion, sins? When? Since these sins of individuals had to be remedied by tax money, we had to take into account the conditions laid down by the European Commission when we were being rehabilitated. We have committed ourselves to this by entering the European Union. The condition that some did not like, and from the perspective of all taxpayers, it was still fair to delete the owners of the bank, the banks and the removal of the owners of the subordinated bonds. That this was a necessary step if we wanted to save our banks with tax money, this was confirmed by the European Commission in its letter, in black and white. You've probably all read it. Why was this a fair measure from the point of view of taxpayers? If the removal of the owners of subordinated bonds had not occurred, the recovery of the country's banking system would have cost the citizens 600 million euros more. EUR 600 million, which means EUR 300 per citizen. The fact is, the rehabilitation of our banks was expensive. If we recalculate, it cost every citizen 2 000 500 euros. If we could choose, but we could not, and the cost of the rehabilitation would not be borne by subordinates, if I could call them that, each Slovenian should contribute 300 euros more. The rehabilitation of every citizen instead of 2 000 500 euros would cost 2 000 800 euros. And new rules that apply from 1. 8. In 2013, they protect taxpayers by requiring taxpayers to bear as little burden as possible at the time the banks need to be rehabilitated. Let's get some more nanism data I got from the Small Shareholders Association and you can see it in the graph. A thousand 645 were all deleted owners of subordinated bonds and all of them lost EUR 597.5 million. 363 thousand 222 per owner of deleted bonds. These are the amounts that some of you are so passionate about, for the small people who put all their savings into these bonds, you say. The fact is, there were also some of those who probably didn't know why they would get more returns than if the money were tied to the bank. I agree, and I don't care. However, the vast majority of those who bought these bonds were well educated and knew what they were risking, EUR 363,000 per investor. I think it's right for these things to be made public once or more. Let me get to the bottom of this. The rehabilitation of banks has cost taxpayers enormously, and it is right that everyone, even the smallest doubt of irregularities, is rejected. It is right to find and punish those who caused the 5 billionth hole in our banks. According to Banka Slovenije, I think I have just remembered that only Banka Slovenije should submit 107 criminal charges. And it would be wise for these things to come to an end before they get old. The money we gave the taxpayers to our banks is still there, it didn't end up in the pockets of individuals like the one who made the hole. And it is right to check that the bank is recapitalised to return money to the budget before the possible sale of our banks, if that is the case. The removal of the owners of subordinated bonds was made due to European rules, but it seems crucial to me once again to say that the rehabilitation of banks as a result of this measure cost taxpayers EUR 600 million less. The situation in the country is at least significantly better in the economic field than it was then. When we were talking or when our government was dealing with bank rehabilitation. In early January, we recorded a negative 4.6% decline in economic activity. On this graph you can see comparisons with other countries, from Italy to Cyprus. In fact, we were at the bottom most, today we are actually among all these countries that have been helped to implement the so-called and infamous troika, at the top, with 2.6% of total economic growth in 2014. We can be indebted at seven times the interest rate that we started to rehabilitate banks. On 1 April 2013, the interest rate was 5.8%, and in those days it was even lower than 0.9% for 10-year government bonds. The number of unemployed is decreasing, credit ratings are improving for the country. Of course, it is far from complete recovery. Many, many steps are still needed for Slovenia to be fully on the safe side again. Dear colleagues and colleagues, especially in the coalition and the government, you will have to work hard to ensure that the results you received at the time of taking over the government and you can see them now also in graphs, and you will keep Slovenia or Slovenian citizens even better living conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u15	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, for her mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, President. Honourable Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament, very nice greeting! Today we are considering Banka Slovenije's recommendation on its role in recapitalising banks and erasures of subordinate hybrid financial instruments. Pursuant to Article 152 of the Constitution, the Central Bank is independent and accountable to the National Assembly. Of course, it is committed to disclosure of information under the Bank of Slovenia Act and the Banking Act. For this reason, we are also cosigners of the requirement for an extraordinary meeting. That reminds us that we're 30. On 1 this year, the National Assembly adopted a decision recommending to the Bank of Slovenia, within 30 days, that it prepare and transmit to the National Assembly information on the causes of the capital deficit of the banks examined and the role of the Bank of Slovenia itself, on the effectiveness of the State-owned corporate governance system and on how to deal with the consequences of the capital inadequacy of business banks. This material was also sent by Banka Slovenije to the National Assembly. The report, covering more than 100 pages, provides comprehensive information, including information on why the banking crisis occurred in Slovenia. The following findings are drawn from the material received from Banka Slovenije. That Slovenia has entered an economic crisis with over-indebted companies and under-capitalised banks. Next. As long as the banks are wholly state-owned, the need to rehabilitate banks by the State can also be repeated. Banks must recover its owners who are responsible for the resulting hole. Why did we come to erase subordinate bonds? We need to pour ourselves some pure wine. The recapitalisation of banks carried out by the previous government was based on new State aid rules. The State rescued banks when State aid was granted by the European Commission, starting in December 2013. The banks had insufficient capital, including subordinated capital, at the time of recovery in 2013, and the owners and owners of subordinated bonds had to be reclassified. If we were to rescue these banks earlier, it would not be necessary to dissipate owners and owners of subordinated bonds. Could the bank's rehabilitation be cheaper? According to Banka Slovenije's latest material on bank rehabilitation, Slovenia acted too late and too little. The reactions of the Slovenian country were insufficient and too late. During the period 2008-2011, when the most necessary action was taken and most EU countries have taken the lead, the measures of the Slovenian State were deeply sub-average. As a result, the last rehabilitation of banks, which was carried out in 2013, is so much more expensive. The Bank of Slovenia report compared the capital adequacy of banks in Slovenia and in the EU during the crisis. This shows that, at the start of the crisis in 2008, banks were at the EU average. The gap between the capital of banks in Slovenia and the EU has increased from 2008 to 2012, which means that the failure of the last governments has only exacerbated the crisis. So much from the contents of the extensive material. With regard to the proposed decision to present the methodology for carrying out a careful review of banks owned by the Slovenian Bank to the National Assembly in detail, it should be noted that the proposed decision will be supported by the SMC Group. However, we expect Members and Members to be briefed by the distinguished Governor at the meeting of the National Assembly on all the relevant dilemmas that are present with Members and are linked to the role of the Bank of Slovenia in the recapitalisation of banks. It should certainly be stressed that the confidence of the SMC Group in the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia is maintained. In the SMC Group, we do not agree to the collapse of the Bank of Slovenia's independence, which is the umbrella regulator of the banking system. Of course, it should be stressed that Banka Slovenije operates under the Banking Act and Banka Slovenije, and as such is responsible to this National Assembly. In the event of a criminal offence being committed by the Bank of Slovenia, it is a matter of investigating law enforcement bodies such as the National Investigation Authority and the Prosecutor's Office and, consequently, the court. Pre-trial convictions of Banka Slovenije show only a desire to destabilise Slovenia. We can see this from the concern of the European Commission and the European Central Bank. The President of the Government and the coalition reassured these institutions because they did not interfere with the independence of the central bank. We are certainly not joining the SMC in a game in which we would use the empowerment of subordinates to stop the privatisation of banks. The continued recapitalisation of banks has shown a moral risk when the state rescues banks in its own capacity as the owner of these banks. This is what we think of the former governments that have been toying with state property as political prey. It's the owners' job to save the banks. If the banks had been privatised earlier, it would not have been necessary to resolve by the State or at least not to that extent. We would also not be faced with the issue of the redistribution of subordinated bonds. Therefore, the privatisation procedures of banks should be continued. Even so, in the future, we would not need to recapitalise the bank by taxpayers. We estimate that Slovenian banks are on average recapitalised in the current situation and are in the sales process. The sale of NKBM is supposed to be in the final phase, looking for a new owner for this bank. The country will gradually withdraw from NLB and seek new owners. Banka and Bank Celje will be sold by 30. 6. 2019. This is the only way the state will avoid saving the banks again. The SMC Group will support the proposed report on the methodology. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u17	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u18	Thank you very much and very much. Honourable President, Honourable Governor with Fellow Workers, Honourable Secretary of State with Fellowship, Colleagues and Colleagues, welcome! In recent weeks there have been many discussions in this National Assembly on the rehabilitation of the banking system and a number of discussions on whether the rehabilitation of banks has been correct. Doubts arose, and the governor rejected six doubts in his speech. In my opinion, however, there are still doubts and it is kind of symptomatic that, at the time of numerous discussions in the National Assembly, there are also numerous letters of responsibility for the rehabilitation of the banking system: letters between the European Central Bank and the European Commission, letters between the European Commission and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, many statements have been made mainly about the need to ensure the independence of the Bank of Slovenia. No one, at least I don't know anyone, wants greater independence from the Bank of Slovenia. And I was very reassured by the vice-governor's statement on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy when she answered my question that the Bank of Slovenia's independence was not threatened. And I think that's why all the concerns about someone wanting to reduce this independence are completely unfounded. We are for the independence of the Bank of Slovenia, and certainly also for the responsibility of the Bank of Slovenia. And everyone who cares about the independence of the Bank of Slovenia in Europe can be completely at peace with this. However, independence does not exclude the responsibility of the Bank of Slovenia. And of course we need to talk about this today and today we will also talk about Banka Slovenije's responsibility. I was also kind of reassured by the statement, and I think it came from the Bank of Slovenia, the Governor, the Vice-Governor and so on, that the recapitalisation of these banks is necessary to protect deposits. And I'm actually going to take this statement as one of my starting points. This is because recapitalisation means that the owner gives additional money to the bank. In this case, the owner is the country and the state collecting money from citizens, including businesses, and this money adds to the bank. We have different deposits, so on the one hand we have deposits of citizens and citizens, natural persons, deposits of legal persons and so on, these deposits are supposed to be EUR 15 billion. But additional taxpayers' money was available to protect deposits. Now, of course, the question is why. If we make some things very simple, it is perfectly clear to everyone that the deposit is less interestable than the loan. The lower interest rate is calculated from the deposit as from the loan. The difference between these two interest rates is the bank's earnings if the loans are repaid, but if the loans are not repaid for different reasons, then of course there is a problem. And this problem occurred for the second time in the Slovenian financial, economic, state-owned area in 20, 25 years. And here we rightly ask ourselves what is wrong here and who is actually responsible for it. And here I have to put this responsibility behind me somehow. They are not responsible for bad loans alone or exclusively for companies that have taken these loans. Some of my colleagues and colleagues were listed, and I'm not going to repeat them, they're famous. However, these loans were received from the company from the banks. It's a bilateral deal. And the banks are the ones that should reduce the risk, and the banks and bankers are the ones that should do everything to get enough guarantees and guarantees for these loans, and they're not. They are also not because of the financial crisis and they have done professionally all right, but they have not received the loans returned because these loans have been granted on the basis of friendly links, on the basis of, if you want, customer ties, on the basis of links that arise in individual societies and have not been taken into account by the professional methods in this regard. On purpose, loans were given to buy-in companies so that money could easily be made. As a guarantee for these loans, future ownership was granted, future shares were put in place, and bad loans were created. The money was given to these future owners, to these companies, money could also be taken out of the country, to tax havens, to other countries and credit was not returned. Deposits were compromised. And so there was another rehabilitation of banks where Banka Slovenije imposed on the owner, this is to give the country additional money to keep the deposits safe, to protect the deposits. This money was derived from taxes collected by the country and, finally, this is a very large moral gamble, ladies and gentlemen, because citizens have actually paid their deposits once again. With all the formulas, with all the criteria, with all the certainty that we have capital adequacy, that adequacy and third adequacy, but the matter is very simple. Along with the ECB, the European Commission, strategic councils and so on and so on. This is about morals and financial gambling. The active players in this are, of course, Banka Slovenije, which orders that additional money should be given, and business banks, because they require this from taxpayers. Of course, it is necessary to protect deposits, taxpayers, protect them yourself, pay taxes and the state will actually put this money in banks. And that's what happened the second time. And here the first question is, who is responsible for this, how many criminal acts have happened in this case, when and who will be responsible here. And here we once again had a meeting of the Justice Committee, where unfortunately we have heard very much of the problems of the judiciary and very much of the problems that all these announcements of these crimes are actually proceeding further. Why? Is there no personnel, or does it not know if it's actually too late? If we go back now. Why is it so late? Many before me have already wondered why it was so late and why it did not happen already in 2009 or in January 2012, when the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy at the first meeting of the call at that time called the then governors, then the vice-governors, all the presidents of the largest banks, state banks and there it was said that everything was fine. Look at the magnetograms. And nothing happened. Why is it so late? Because it was in the interest of someone not to let this happen, because it was in the interest that there were actually no credits that were not given at some professional level, but on some links and are therefore under criminal responsibility, of course also the people who actually gave them. This is a question of responsibility, because in some ways the Slovenian public was being misled, the Slovenian Parliament was also being misled, probably someone else, I don't know who else, but it actually happened. That is why we are paying a higher price today. Citizens and citizens pay 5 billion, maybe less, I'll say, maybe 3 billion. Here the next question arises whether recapitalisation was too expensive, untransparent, unoptimal, incomplete. It is justified to question the need for two smaller banks, Probanko and Factor Banka, to be resolved in such a way. And it is legitimate to question why you did not go to bankruptcy and in what interest you went to the so-called controlled liquidation. Again to protect deposits, they say. Some important depositors. Look, ladies and gentlemen, that's exactly where we know how many deposits were. And it's clear which banks, I'm talking about business banks, could cover these deposits. After all, these banks had a 3% to 4% share in the Slovenian market and were not so-called systemic banks, i.e. banks, if I simplify which are important for the stability of the economic and financial system in the country. But it was 400, 500 million in this bank and now it's a question of what, for who, for who, what, in fact, was trying to hide here and whether something was trying to hide. That's how the first question comes up. The second question that arises is that many have talked about it today, and so will I, in a slightly different way. These are the so-called stress tests, from the bottom down, from the top down, Oliver Wyman, Deloitte and so on, all this has been said. But I'm interested in the assumptions of a hypothetical scenario for these stress tests. I ask the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia to state these assumptions about the hypothetical scenario, namely how much GDP was planned to fall after the so-called adverse case scenario in 2013, 2014, 2015. I'm glad the governor gave one part of this scenario in his speech today, just a little bit. He said that it was planned that the property would fall within three years 30%. That's one piece. What was the EURIBOR planned for 2013, 2014, 2015? How much of the return on 10-year bonds was planned in this scenario for these three years? How many were planned to raise deposits in these three years in this scenario? How many deposits? Which banks will fall under this scenario? What was the planned decline in investment? What was the number of planned bankruptcys, and in what activities? What increase in unemployment? And other elements. These are input data, these are the things on the basis of which this scenario was made, on which it can then be determined whether or not it was realistic. Let's say that the decline in GDP in this scenario was slightly over 6% over a period of time. Could the planned decline in GDP in 2015 have been slightly less than 3%. In short, I propose that, given that the Governor has already mentioned one element of this scenario, this is a 30 % property drop to indicate the other data as well. I think that this will actually lead to a simple assessment of whether this scenario in which this recapitalisation took place, whereby citizens and citizens recapitalised these banks, was actually real. Isn't there too much recapitalisation? In fact, we must be aware that it applies to at least one bank, this is for the New Bank of Maribor to be sold. It will not be sold on the basis of a price that will include recapitalisation, but on the basis of a market price. And if there has to be capital adequacy in this bank, I think, for example, 16% or 20%, then it will be very difficult to make a big return on this capital, which will make this bank uncompetitive and will make it so many and so many less customers. Of course, I am very pleased with those screws when we talk about what other countries or other banks have capital in other countries, but I think that, given the actual situation and the fact that this is being sold, this capital is 16% and 20%. And it will be a new moral gamble that awaits us in the future. On the basis of an unrealistic scenario, we have recapitalised the banks that we will then sell and, of course, the purchase will not count, because if it does not count, then it is necessary to take the capital and sell the banks so that, of course, they will comply with the provisions of the European Central Bank, but not 16%. The second question that comes up here is what happens to the operation and management of these banks. In fact, the management and management of these banks have not changed much. And if not much has changed, the question is whether we can count, despite the European Central Bank, despite the European Commission, despite all their views that we will have to recapitalise these banks. I think the Secretary of State gave this information at the last meeting of the Committee on Finance that the Hypo Bank in Austria has been recapitalised by 6 to 7 billion. This was also information given to the Austrian media. But this Hypo Bank is also under the supervision of the European Central Bank and under the supervision of the European Commission. Has the European Central Bank and the European Commission been wrong in this case, or has it not looked at all the data, and can this happen to us? What is the risk here that this recapitalisation is actually final and that taxpayers will not pay higher taxes again so that they can raise their deposit in the bank? I made it a little easier. Of course, I expect an answer to this too, and I expect in particular the answer to what the bank will do to determine the responsibility for all of this and what it has already done for it, including in cooperation with the judicial authorities, to establish accountability, even so as never to repeat such a method of recapitalisation, which will so deeply affect taxpayers' pockets. I think that these answers will also increase confidence in our banking system, these answers will, of course, also increase confidence in the Bank of Slovenia. Finally, allow me to say that it is somewhat unusual for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to give an opinion on the conclusions adopted by the Commission for the supervision of public finances in the sense that these conclusions are very difficult to implement and that the Bank of Slovenia is supposed to become independent and is essentially going in the direction that it cannot be held accountable. So we'll probably talk about it again. Of course, we will support this decision, but of course we demand an independent Bank of Slovenia and a responsible Bank of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Chairman. Representatives of the Government, representatives of the Bank of Slovenia and respected colleagues! Allow me to brief you on the position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal for a recommendation on the role of Banka Slovenije in recapitalising banks and deleting the owners of subordinate hybrid financial instruments. In our parliamentary group, we demand that all circumstances regarding the alleged, I stress, alleged irregularities in the recapitalisation of banks be investigated. This is why we will also support the proposal for recommendations. We expect the Governor of Banka Slovenije to explain what happened in the preparation of extraordinary measures for banks, and we are also interested in the conditions and assumptions under which the stress tests of Slovenian banks were carried out. Finally, we expect to be entrusted with a methodology for carrying out a thorough review. With all the information that has been presented to the public in recent weeks, with all the written and spoken, which has been interpreted in one way or another, we still have the following question in the Desus Group. Whether the calculation of the so-called negative capital has been made in order to dissipate shareholders and holders of subordinated bank bonds, recapitalise banks, facilitate sales and could also list. I hope and I want, of course, none of that. On 12 December 2013, the government adopted a decision on capital requirements in the banking sector totalling almost EUR 5 million, which is, of course, approximately half of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The follow-up measures were determined on the basis of stress tests carried out, taking into account assumptions that were much more out of the ordinary than actual economic trends. To illustrate. The negative scenario forecasted a 3.1% decline in GDP in 2013 and a fall of 3.8% and 2.9% in 2014 and 2015. In fact, economic activity fell by only one percent in 2013 and in 2014, according to recent estimates, as we have heard and seen, by 2.6% of growth. This is a real growth that will allow us, after a long time, to valorize our pensions, as agreed in our coalition agreement and we are extremely happy in Desus. On the other hand, we are much less pleased to think that the negative scenario could have been so shamelessly cut off, especially in the light of the data, that according to quarterly data GDP had stopped falling since the first quarter of 2013, that is, before stress tests were carried out. At this point in the Desus Group, the representatives of the Bank of Slovenia are asked whether there is any possibility that the assumptions on the basis of which stress tests are carried out would be aligned with the updated data. To put into this, we are confident, highly complex matter inserted one protective mechanism, a refresh button that would allow the calculation to eventually reflect a more realistic state, as this was of course the case in other countries. In other words, why wasn't a dynamic method used? Taking into account unrealistic data does not make sense. After all, there is also a splinter of the possibility of meteorite or something like that falling on Slovenia, and we will not lower economic growth projections from this title. We also point out that, in the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, it was explained that, in connection with the stress tests carried out for 2013, the assessors did not require any analyses or forecasts of economic developments. The situation we are in requires, of course, a serious analysis. Due to these questionable assumptions, public debt is greater than if more optimistic were used or, if you want, more realistic assessments. Banks now have enough money, that's our firm belief. In Banka Slovenije, although they say they are not overcapitalised, the data show that capital adequacy is both NLB and NKBM higher by more than 20%. So the banks are, I'll allow myself to say, full of money, which they don't invest in the start of the economy, but rather sit on it if it doesn't invest in projects that have a poorly designed business plan. Okay, we agree with this principle, but what's been going on for the last 10 years? How, though, were secured loans for managers’ purchases, as appropriate? These were largely not based on a carefully crafted business strategy, but rather on human greed. Such credits were often given on the basis of bonds and knowledge, without adequate insurance, as you know it, Hand washes and both face. Who then regulated the implementation of bad loans? Of course, we do not want to establish this situation, this way of lending, on the contrary, but merely listening to the needs of banks to the real sector, which we often like to mention, which requires financial resources for healthy business projects and ideas. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I would also like to draw attention to the next problem that we want to raise in the Desus Group, which is the problem or subject of control over the Bank of Slovenia, which has already been mentioned today. The Court of Auditors wanted to revise Banka Slovenije in 2012, but it was not possible, of course, to assume that the Court of Auditors was not legally competent to do so and that the supervision of such a type was contrary to the international requirements for the independence of the central bank. More and more, we also get the feeling that Banka Slovenije is becoming a state in the country or, as we once called it, a center of estranged power. Otherwise, in some EU countries, the audit powers of the central banks are explicitly stated in the Supreme Audit Institution Act and the Slovenian law does not explicitly state the Bank of Slovenia among the auditors. In view of the current situation, perhaps a step in this direction should be considered. The Bank of Slovenia should, irrespective of the assertion of the international requirement for independence, act in a proportionate manner with its role and placement between public law entities and operate rationally and in accordance with the rules of the good host, and should be properly monitored. We believe that this is in the interest of everyone, we are convinced that this is also in the interest of the Bank of Slovenia. In the media, the Bank of Slovenia responds to the obvious that, in accordance with the provisions of the Bank of Slovenia Act, it reports on its work to the National Assembly, which is familiar with the annual report and the financial plan. He says he provides all the information required by the National Assembly or the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, if only, I emphasise, there are no explicit legal restrictions. Respected and respected. Unfortunately, in this case, the annual report and the financial plan will not, of course, satisfy and satisfy. I am pleased that we are having a debate today on this very sensitive and important topic. We are talking about the depreciation or write-off of more than 100,000 investments to small shareholders and subordinated creditors totalling almost 600 million euros. We're talking about an increase in debt, we're talking about an increase in public debt due to negative scenarios. We are talking about banks being more than optimally recapitalized, and we, as it is possible to understand, read or hear, are talking about the case of the New Maribor Credit Bank, we are selling them at a ridiculously low price. Finally, we are also talking about the fact that the country's own investments have also been eliminated, i.e. the investments of state companies whose negative impact will reach some EUR 10 million. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Desus Group, we therefore strongly hope that the Governor will further explain the alleged disputes below. I'm stressing alleged disputes or, if you like, ambiguities. Since we have been saving banks with tax money, it is necessary to determine whether it was any act contrary to the law or even a crime. Of course, until then in the Desus Group or in Desus, we maintain any valuable comments or even unfounded accusations. We fully support the conclusion that Banka Slovenije will present to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in detail the methodology for carrying out a careful review of banks in 2013, as only in this way will all possible doubts and doubts in this regard be eliminated. Until then, however, it would be appropriate to retain all final decisions concerning the possible sale, resale or partial change in the ownership of recapitalised institutions. To the conclusion. In the Desus Group, we will support the recommendations, as we are convinced that this is the only way to clear the situation completely and that the country's reputation will be further strengthened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Ms Andreja Katič will be the representative of the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Government and Bank of Slovenia, colleagues and colleagues! It is not often that Members and Members should be united and a joint request to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. However, in the case of public disclosures at the expense of the Bank of Slovenia, it was different. This time it had to be different. The observations expressed at the expense of the central bank regarding its role in the resolution of the banking system in 2013 and 2014 were so severe that they gave no one the opportunity to hide behind Flosculs on the independence of the institution or so-called bank secrecy. More than unity, however, the joint performance of MEPs and Members expresses the embarrassment and impotence of political decision-makers. It is embarrassing to all of us who have decided in the procedures for the resolution of the banking system, pushed against the wall with warnings from each Finance Minister and from domestic and international financial institutions that there is no other possibility. There were supposed to be only expensive and even more expensive. Decisions were so often taken in time and were largely based on confidence in the assessment of those to whom the Financial Intrudence Dogma was supposed to apply. However, the Court of Auditors recently found that, as one of the major sins, it defined the operation of the DUTB — the Company for the conduct of bank claims or the so-called bad bank. The perceptions of the Bank of Slovenia also weakened confidence in the past functioning of the central Slovenian financial institution. Political impotence stems from the relationship between the Bank of Slovenia and the legislative and executive authorities. The position of the central bank is based on Article 152 of the Constitution, which provides for its independence, but at the same time combines it with the direct responsibility of the national assembly. A rather precise distinction between autonomy and responsibility is more relaxed in the Bank of Slovenia Act. The definition that the bank and its authorities are independent and are not bound by the decisions, positions and instructions of the State or any authority, nor should they be addressed by guidance alone, should be re-examined in the light of the appropriateness of the supervisory mechanisms over its operation. In recent days, we have received calls from senior representatives of the European Commission to defend the independence of the Bank of Slovenia. We have listened to them in the Group of Social Democrats, but we do not understand them as a request for a withdrawal from the intention to clear up all circumstances concerning the rehabilitation of the banking system. This should also be in the interest of the European Commission, which has played more than an observation role in the implementation of stress tests. Last but not least, despite the fact that the Bank of Slovenia has so far failed to provide the necessary clarifications, it should be noted that it has been constructive to cooperate in the process so far. However, the concern of Brussels City can be explained to a certain extent by the effects of the disclosure of all circumstances on the process of selling state assets in progress. One of the more desirable companies is NKBM, which has been recapitalised by the state with over 800 million euros and is expected to receive poor 200 million euros by sale. In whose interest is it today that banks are recapitalised when they sit on money to act on the argument that the rehabilitation of the banking system is proof of the urgency of immediate sale over all well-standing banks? Respected and respected, the Social Democrats were alerted in the months leading up to the media disclosure of irregularities related to the rehabilitation of the banking system to strange coincidences related to the management of stress tests, which were the basis for the recapitalisation of the banking system, but empirical evidence of the creation of a shock doctrine was prepared for the privatisation tsunamis of the last state property, accompanied only by cynical smiles and sent to the rotatar theory. Let's just remind ourselves of the wrong macroeconomic assumptions. The failure to predict the European Commission and performers of stress tests, particularly in relation to economic growth, is not comparable to that of human behaviour, the snowstorm of the century, which is expected to cover Slovenia almost fatal Friday, February 6th. But we hope that we have learned something from the unfortunate method of predicting the future and will benefit from this lesson on mistakes, for all of us, in limiting the influence of divination techniques on the content of the fiscal rule law. Respected and respected. Bank recovery has its own price paid by citizens and citizens of this country. The misuse of financial mechanisms, when the care for social responsibility retreated after the shameless affluence of individuals and individuals, brought a multitude of people to the brink and over it. These bear names and surnames, thanks to the media, the crumb of their stories is presented to all of us. In the Group of Social Democrats, we expect that the competent authorities will also serve for this with the names and surnames of all those who have surrendered themselves to Hedonese pleasure while aware that they are self-sacrificing the fate of the entire nation on the altar. This week we were able to learn about the irrevocable end of communism. The invaluable economic and social arrangements based on the division of production resources, the elimination of exploitation and the sharing of goods according to needs, as defined by communism by the Slovenian Book Language Dictionary, have been gone for a long time. It was inherited by the market economy, where the self-proclaimed elite makes profits at the expense of poverty of everything that is public and social, and then defines it as ineffective and as a solution to the sale. My dears, sooner or later such thinking will overtake time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u23	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Mr Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u24	I am sure that this debate will certainly help, at least in part, to make things move forward. I can understand the Governor that he feels uneasy in all these discussions and that he is inconvenient, but he must understand that it is simply our job to seek answers, such as his work, to try to explain and explain what was happening in the resolution of the banking system itself. And there can't be any bad will in this thing. If we start at the beginning, then I could say that the question of how the bank system itself was being repaired and what was the way of this resolution of the banking system should not blind us to other issues. For the first time, who caused this bank hole, and for the second time, whether or not we started to rehabilitate the banking system in time. At the Tuesday's session of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, the vice-governor clearly and unequivocally – we also expect such answers in Parliament – said that the rehabilitation of the banking system was too late. Of course, it follows from this title that the cost of rehabilitation was also much higher. However, Banka Slovenije has to explain these differences at this point, so that we and people understand what happened between 2012 and 2015. It is the same institution and the same institution, Banka Slovenije, claimed in 2012 that everything was fine, that the banking system was stable and that everything was under control. At the same time, a few years later, the same institution notes that we have only started the recovery too late. In this place – that no one will say that we only ask Banka Slovenije and all the questions go solely to Banka Slovenije – is also an important question of what has happened to the owner of the banks since 2009 itself. As is known, the regulator has repeatedly pointed out that state banks need to be recapitalised. And the country as the responsible owner should most likely follow these instructions from the regulator. If banks were recapitalised in time and to a sufficient extent, then recovery would probably not later be so extensive. So, because recapitalisation has not occurred in the past, it is likely that the cost of rehabilitation is much higher today. Government representatives, from 2009 onwards, will have to explain why they did not follow the regulator's instructions, and Banka Slovenije will have to explain why it did not act against irresponsible owners and in some way allow this rehabilitation to be much more painful and expensive later on. It's about stress tests. I accept the Governor's argument, as well as the Bank of Slovenia, when he speaks in his reports that this is a hypothetical scenario for which it is unlikely that will happen, but nevertheless there are important details here. The problem is in detail. There is no way we can come here with Banka Slovenije in the sense that Members are constantly asking why there have been differences in these stress tests, in the way they operate or in the use of these stress tests between countries. The Bank of Slovenia always claims that there were no differences and that it was the same in all countries. I can understand that the stress test method was the same, but in these stress tests, it's crucial how the input data were. I hope the economists won't mind if I use a little bit more "ma'am" logic in this explanation and say it's a stress test scenario than some kind of house mixer. But the results of this mixer depend on what you put in the mixer and what plants this mixer works on. I understand that Banka Slovenije will never reveal what has been invested in this mixer, because these are specific individual data protected by bank secrecy. I can understand that. Obviously, then, it is also a matter for the legislator to amend these regulations, so that, if it comes to state money, these views can also be made possible. For the moment, I understand the position of the Bank of Slovenia. But I don't understand why they keep saying that this mixer's rotations were the same in all countries, and we have cases where we find that they were not the same. And I would ask the representatives of the Bank of Slovenia to explain, say, the case of Spain, quite simply. Because this is a very simple example that can tell us a lot of things, rejects or explains something, for example, that someone has done too little for us. The question is why, in Spain, those European regulators allowed the combination to be used for the scenarios, both from the bottom up and from the top down, and to assess the need for capital. But, of course, we have an awkward scenario. This answer would be very useful and would explain a lot. Another example of such stress tests is that there are obvious differences between us and the Bank of Slovenia, for example, why in some countries fresher GDP data were used in 2004. I'm not saying that a different methodology has been used, but more recent data. If you could explain this to us on a more plastic case, then it would be a lot easier to explain. With regard to only the success of the resolution of the banking system. Many of you today have claimed that based on the required return on ten-year government bonds, it is true that this recovery of the banking system was successful. At first glance, it may seem that way, but on the other hand, the second part of the story is silent, and this is that banks are still not serviced effectively by the economy itself. Small and medium-sized enterprises have the biggest problems. Banks went from one extreme to another, from putting credits in beautiful eyes to practically becoming a pawnshop today. If someone doesn't have 100% of the cover, then practically they don't get that credit. And in small and medium-sized enterprises, of course, this is a problem. You can have a great entrepreneur with a great idea who comes to the bank and with all the papers he can prove that this idea will work, that he will create new jobs based on this idea, pay so much and so much tax and, of course, return this credit back, and the bank says to him, "No, thank you for not having the proper cover. And that's what the banking system itself is. So far, so much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u25	Thank you. We continue with the general debate of Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation launched by the representative of the applicant. Now he has the word of Dr. Franz the Crusader.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear High Council! First, something about the background of this crisis, why it was coming. In 2004, Slovenia's macroeconomic debt was EUR 15 billion, both state-owned and from all private entities to abroad, and by 2008 it had grown to EUR 39 billion. In this process, business banks have increased their net external exposure from €2.7 billion to €8.8 billion. In this process, the ratio between loans and deposits has changed to around 1 to 1, which is conservative and safe, to 1 to 1.6, which meant that banks have been extremely exposed in this process of irrational and excessive debt with too short-term deadlines. This has made our banking system vulnerable during the period of crisis and we have responded so – even in the period when this money began to flow quickly from Slovenia, about 3 billion did not drain it in a few months because the hands were so unfavourable – that on the one hand, with the state money we collected through the first treasury coins, and then through the issuance of bonds, we entered the banking system with about 3 billion deposits. At the same time, we have introduced, as has already been said today, a range of various guarantee schemes. We guaranteed the savers the security of their deposits up to EUR 12 billion. We guaranteed the banks to perform on the interbank market so that they could obtain additional funds and put them forward for the economy. We guaranteed an economy that was in debt to banks, of course, according to the jobs they were protecting. We guaranteed even the population that was in debt to banks. At the same time, we also carried out a recapitalisation. We recapitalised the Slovenian export company and each time Banka Slovenije demanded recapitalisation, we also recapitalised banks. Total recapitalisations took place between 2009 and 2011, some EUR 400 million, some over EUR 400 million. The overall impact of aid to the financial system, all of which was paid off and was realistically expected to receive the money back from taxpayers, was around €6.5 billion or €3,000 300 per capita. As a result, credit activity grew even slightly faster during the crisis than in the euro area and increased by a billion and a half to non-financial companies or 8% to the real sector of the economy from 2008 to July 2010. On the basis of this credit activity and development policies implemented in accordance with European Union standards, exports have started to increase rapidly, and economic growth has also resumed. In July 2010, the Bank of Slovenia amended the regulation, which was soon for the successful recapitalisation of the Ljubljana Bank, requiring additional capital adequacy, and with a number of parallel measures, it achieved that credit activity in Slovenia began to fall and fell by last December. It improved for the first time this year in January. In the hope that this improvement may, however, be the beginning of a change, this description would be completed. I would like to go on what has been happening since 2012 and in particular since 2013. First of all, it is quite clear that the bank has carried out the illegal leasing of shareholders. The regulation of the European Union which provides for this will only apply from 1 January. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official It then prohibited the recapitalisation of the NKBM or the owners in order to prevent their expropriation in December 2012 and June 2013. On the basis of unrealistic forecasts, she carried out stress tests, hired Oliver Wyman, without a call for tender, at least there is no information on how this work came about. Then she gave him an unreasonable high prize of 11.2 million euros, and 10 million euros had to be paid by banks, which is comparatively less than they paid in Spain. Then a record write-off of the transferred claims to a bad bank, between 63% and 71%, depending on who the criteria were, Breugel or if we make our own assessment. These claims, however, are essentially insurance and these are good companies with which the loans were secured. Then it is obvious that they benefit from the illegal withdrawal of shares and from the large recapitalisation of banks, which was carried out on the basis of unrealistic stress tests, now buyers of rehabilitated banks at NKBM. We can look at the ratio between 200 million purchases and some estimates of 870 million paid assets into this bank by withdrawing bad claims. So 600 million will get the one who buys the money washed. It is clear that the state will lose justice with shareholders and lose it in district courts and then in high school, not in constitutional courts. It is clear that there was no reason for this decommissioning – without the state not having the right to do so if it were, but not to do so – and then the public debt will be even more than €600 or more million, because the owners will, of course, require a real assessment, which is not just a book, but a liquidation one. Interesting is the discrepancy between the results of the stress tests that have been carried out. A number of institutions carried out them: Oliver Wyman, Roland Berger and various audit houses such as Deloitte & Touche and similar, as well as Banka Slovenije carried them out and this one knows best, has a good research team. And the difference between Roland Berger and Oliver Wyman is 1 billion and a half of what was taken into account. In the same unrealistic assumptions, Roland Berger found a billion and a half lower required recapitalisation, while Banka Slovenije is 2 billion 100 million lower, or other assumptions, and a much deeper or shorter recession, as far as it is available to the public. People in banks, employees, have already noticed that criteria have changed during stress tests. Here is one important date, September 30, 2013, when there was an obvious break into the independence of the Bank of Slovenia, who and how it was discovered can only discover forensic research from abroad. But it's obviously been a break-in. At that time, according to some information, the so-called assessment of the so-called bank hole increased from EUR 2.8 billion to EUR 4.8 billion or an additional two billion, which is of course putting pressure on us now on the interest to be paid by the State and on the smaller expenditure available to us under the Maastricht criteria for normal social reproduction and development policy. Shortening of the economy's credits, as I said, since July 2010. I would say that this is human because they tried to introduce one measure already planned by the European Union or the ECB, but very quickly, when they saw that it had very devastating consequences, they had to take action, change something, improve something, try to adapt. No, no, no. They continue and continue, which suggests a plan, so that loans to non-financial corporations, as we say, fell from a good 21 billion in mid-2010 to a good 11 billion at the end of 2014. Some of these funds have also been transferred to a bad bank, so that the whole economy has not been so deliberated, but it has. And what I would add to Mr Draganje's opinion – so little has been said by the lawyer – he did not try to define himself as an analyst on his own – that, of course, the recapitalisation did not lead to an increase in credit by this January. Perhaps this year's January begins. About a billion credits have fallen or write-offs have increased since transfers to a bad bank until last December. Thus, unlike the recovery carried out in the early 1990s, it did not lead to an increase in credits and then to economic growth, vice versa, economic growth took place despite these activities, such as those of the central banks. Of course, it was made possible by the surplus in the external trade in the balance of payments. Let's go back. We're from what's publicly available, we've collected some data, and I'm going to take them here to the High Council for a little while. Threats related to all these projects have been identified. Pressures on Banka Celje's CEO to apply for state aid by threatening to suspend him. When he noticed this, he resigned and later followed a personal tragedy, no signs of conscience or repentance, whatever you want to call it. In mid-2013, before the Ministry of Finance promised the European Commission or the lower officials an evaluation of the bank's assets at Roland Berger was ordered. The results showed that NLB’s capital was positive, that one billion euro of recapitalisation should be added to capital adequacy, and a new order was given, this time a stricter valuation at Deloitt, with Deloitte writing down at the end of the report that it deviated from accounting standards. The decision to recapitalise was therefore made over the established methods of measuring the results. Decisions were to be issued on 19th, 20th, perhaps on 22 December, because they knew that the Constitutional Court would decide on the detention of enforced deletion, they were rushed and dated on 17 December. It is said that events that are yet to occur have been recorded in the past. That didn't happen by mistake. Time mismatches or document manipulation. The European Commission granted a State aid authorisation to Slovenian banks on 18 December 2013. The Bank of Slovenia made an deletion the day before, referring to a decision of the European Commission issued the following day. The reason for the urgency is once again the Constitutional Court, which discussed the possible detention. Even if he didn't decide to hold back, that doesn't mean that the whole thing wasn't a little fide. The declaration of entry and payment of new NLB shares by the State is dated 18. December. This statement was intended to be supported and then found and it proved to be signed by the Secretary of State instead of the Governor and instead of the Minister of Finance. So it's a transfer of responsibility to subordinates. Who made the deal with whom, why, and where are those glorious promises that we made horribly? The deletion should be based on correspondence between a lower official of the European Union and the Ministry of Finance, pointing out in the letter that the position expressed by an official of the European Union is not necessarily the position of the European Union. Contrary to the Government and Banka Slovenije's assertion that this measure was inevitable and has been requested by the European Commission since 1 August 2013 for any granting of State aid to banks, the Slovenian Association of Small Shareholders has repeatedly pointed out that the European Commission has not requested such a measure from Austria. Data mismatch. Banks have been provided with capital adequacy, which is twice what is required in the European Union. The European Union averages 10% and NKBM 20% and NLB 17%, while Slovenian banks are significantly less exposed to the economy in terms of GDP, in terms of economic growth and in terms of the surpluses generated by this economy in external trade. If you are looking at 2012, this is the latest data, gross accumulation and depreciation plus net business surplus or domestic profits, then you get about 9 billion and 11 billion is still owed to the real economy. So, even if you're simplifying everything, in two years like Romania used to be capable of bringing it all back. And this continental economy, which is usually literally linked to credit financing to a greater extent than the Anglo-Saxon type of economy. This has already been the case since the great crisis there in 1873 and beyond, when, in particular, regulators in Germany decided that the financing of businesses across the stock market was not a reliable and safe way and therefore they relied more heavily on credit banks, on business banks, and that was followed by all those we imitate around them. Then there was an erasion, although Bank Celja had improved the portfolio for the first three quarters and made profits, commitments had also fallen so that they could eventually be deleted. In 2014, the ECB announced a far-reaching decline in capital adequacy to banks in Slovenia, followed by banks in Greece with 10, Cyprus 9, Portugal 6 and Italy with 5 and Spain with only 2 percentage points. So, as a net exporter of highly dispersed exports, with a relatively safe and stable structure of our economy, we have been shown as a patient, as a structurally dependent region, I mean a pure fiction. Next, with the exception of Slovenia, in 2014 the European Central Bank revised these assumptions in all countries where economic developments have actually improved. Thus, in Greece, Cyprus and Spain, she agreed to use fresh data, called dynamic evaluation. In Slovenia alone, where improvement was greatest in these countries, it remained in the use of old statistical and significantly more pessimistic assumptions, which consequently led to worse, unrealistic pessimistic predictions for 2014 as well. Here it is noted that there is complete passivity in representing the interest of the Slovenian financial system and the economy. What do you do? Of course, we will support the conclusions proposed by the High National Assembly, and we are pleased that there has been unification. However, I think that we should find sufficient capacity and energy to re-examine both the value of the transferred assets to the DUTB and the necessary recapitalisations, in order to then reconstruct them, so that minority shareholders and also the owners of bonds and subordinated instruments will be reimbursed, which is theirs in banks, in order to reduce the recapitalisation of banks, in order to transfer part of this to deposits, in order to ensure sufficient return of these assets to the banks by the State and in time reduce public debt. From 2009 to this year, the Slovenian State increased public debt by a good 9 billion, corresponding to an increase or accumulated government deficit. Today, 4 billion and a half are deposits abroad, left to be placed in banks, and they also have deposits abroad, especially in the short term. From that net debtor to abroad, Slovenian banks became a net creditor for around 800 million at the end of last year, between 8 and 9 billion. In the short term, however, business banks have 3 billion more abroad than they have borrowed. They are, therefore, very safe and very much concerned about financing financial entities abroad and not the economy. However, the Central Bank has even EUR 6 billion of net deposits abroad. Thus, the country has 4 billion and a half euro of liquidity reserves placed in different instruments. In this sense, I think, for the first time, that we are safe, and for the second time, that there was no need for this so much recapitalisation and much more to be granted. If you look quite simple, logically, like some farmer, how can you take any assumption, for example, that there will be a great flood in the Ljubljana Cauldron, that there will be a lake on the bar again to water everything, and on this basis you demand the recapitalisation of banks. Something like this has been done. You can make that assumption, and you're making some conclusions about security or about making reserves or anything, but you can't basically blow up the owners of a bank. How does that even come to anyone?Oh, my God! And how can he think that he doesn't even think that there's anything wrong here?Oh, my God! I mean, what's going on here? We're not going to get an answer to that today, that's perfectly clear. But that things are extremely, extremely strange, there's no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u27	Thank you. Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor. Get Mr. Marjan Dolinšek ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u28	Your Honor, thank you for your word. The theme is difficult, interesting, and at the same time our citizens feel that we are playing with millions and billions of people in Parliament, just as the children of pebbles in the sand from one pot to another. Although we are not all experts in the field of finance and banking, we all wonder together whether anyone will ever be responsible for all these bank holes. We all wonder about these 5 billion that we have invested in the rehabilitation of banks, how many scholarships we could grant, how many start-up companies we financed, how many farm women we gave back to the pensions we took from them, even though years and years they worked, how many pensions they could raise and so on. These are the questions that arise all the time when people wonder who is to blame, who is to answer, and who is to be obsolete. We've witnessed spectacular investigations over and over again. I also remember when we discussed the help of Factor Bank and Probank, there were spectacular arrests, continuations, consequences of this, we do not know whether or not there will ever be any results. And so in public there's a feeling that something is hiding, hiding, manipulating, that no one will be responsible for what happened. And what's going on? The people with the finger point to us, Members. Most often they see us, listen to us, and end up saying, "It's your fault this is happening." Therefore, I do not think there is any need for resentment if we have requested this extraordinary meeting, including the responsibility of the Bank of Slovenia, and also the opportunity and opportunity for the competent to explain what has happened, what criteria have been applied and why they have done something that can also remove certain doubts. It is also right for our citizens to know and know who is responsible and responsible for what. Thus we are again on the wallpaper Members, who are responsible for everything and for everything, even for what we have entrusted to some other institutions and responsible people in certain places. Let the boundaries be clear and also clear and our right to ask the Bank of Slovenia to answer the questions raised. I believe that the financial crisis, including the global crisis, has contributed to these gaps in the banking system, but I find that many have come too well through this crisis. Many who lived at our expense are known for spending too much over their borders. I know I'm not, and many citizens don't. There's someone. Now we pay for it and cover it all. Here we must demand clear responsibility and that all those complaints that have been filed, once and for all, come to an end. And it's not enough to lock someone up. People are asking when we're gonna get the money back. Thus, it is also necessary to take responsibility for errors with property, not only with imprisonment. When we talk about the privatisation of banks, I have not heard today that this is our natural or national wealth and our national interest, what we have been listening to for years. On the second occasion, when we talk about other privatisations, we hear it over and over again. Why does the European Commission recommend that we privatise banks and privatise state-owned enterprises? Because they see too well what we have done in recent years, how we manage and run these banks, and how we manage businesses. Privatisation is therefore a search for responsible owners and a stop to Taiwanisation and a stop to corruption. We need to be aware of that. And thank God if those responsible owners are Slovenians, thank God. But we must not be afraid of the arrival of others who have money and want to do what is responsible. When we talked about external institutions reviews, we were also surprised that one institution had given such a report, the other one was different, and the fact is that we can no longer trust ourselves, so we need external institutions to provide us with our picture. I support those recommendations that we have written under the call for an urgent meeting, so I want Banka Slovenije to carry out her task and that the Government also does its job, as we have written in our recommendation. We are all responsible together, but let each one take responsibility in his own field. They say that trust is good, control is even better, and that is why we need a strong Bank of Slovenia, which we will trust to monitor professionally the banking institutions on our behalf. To do this, we need confidence in the Bank of Slovenia so that we can really trust it. We must also carry out our part of the control task on behalf of citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u29	Thank you. Mr Marjan Dolinšek has the floor to prepare Mrs Suzanne Lepi Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u30	Thank you, Madam President. All in attendance, all in attendance! Today we have heard a lot about the question of recapitalisation of banks and the role of Banka Slovenije, as we have already heard on the Finance Committee a few days ago, and I will focus on removing subordinate obligations. All publicly available information indicates that the first decision to delete was taken and then a technical solution to this implementation was found through law and decision. Banka Slovenije was only a technical contractor of this project, which would not be feasible without the active cooperation of the Ministry of Finance and Bank Administrations. This raises the following specific questions. Once again, it is necessary to ask the Ministry of Finance and Banka Slovenije whether the European Commission has directly conditioned the issue of a state aid agreement by deleting all subordinated obligations. If so, why was Austria not placed under the same condition for the rehabilitation of the Hypo Bank? In view of the procedures for the adoption of European acts, the Commission replied to the Ministry of Finance that Austria had forwarded the programme at the end of June and to Slovenia after 1. In August, when the message is supposed to be in effect, it is unacceptable. Slovenia submitted the application later solely on the basis of the Commission's requests that it carry out a thorough review and stress tests. How can subordinated bonds sold in public sales as a savings product and not a capital investment, such as misleading disclosure, be equated with other capital investments and contractually permitted financial arrangements? In order to allow these bonds to be used for a period of time to satisfy regulatory and not equity capital, it is exclusively a matter of regulators and banks, and in no case of bondholders. The entire removal process is based on the Bank of Slovenia decision and on the conclusion that the bank would go bankrupt due to a lack of regulatory capital. In particular, NLB is expected to be mature for bankruptcy due to the disputed estimated negative capital of EUR 312 million, which was neither insolvent nor insolvent, which under all the laws are fundamental reasons for bankruptcy. The Bank of Slovenia is the only one able to trigger bankruptcy on these grounds. Here comes the next question. Would the Bank of Slovenia really be able to propose the bankruptcy of NLB on the basis of a largely subjective assessment that the balance sheet sum of more than EUR 11 billion is missing from the bank EUR 312 million to pay all its liabilities? A solution to the problem. All debates should not be their own agenda. This isn't about the opposition, the coalition. In the final stage, we are just all Members of the Slovenian people. Given that the whole process was carried out under the European dictatorship and that we were the first and only example of an experimental rabbit for a system to be implemented under the Directive by 1. 1. 2016 is, in my opinion, a more important issue of Slovenian sovereignty within the framework of democratically accepted common standards within the framework of Slovenian independence. In this context, the very defeat of Banka Slovenije, which has indeed been a rather clumsy performer of tasks, as a fundamental objective is not meaningful and does not solve the real problem. The material problem itself is not technically difficult to solve. Firstly, the fundamental problem of decommissioning bonds, which can be completely equated with post-war nationalisation and the problem deleted, is solved in two ways. The bond to creditors shall in any event be banks. In view of the amount of the deletion and the high level of capital, banks, other than those in liquidation and the position of creditors, would easily make an out-of-court settlement as implemented by SNS Real in the Netherlands. The second option could be a proposal for a banking law adopted following a rapid procedure whereby subordinated bonds sold in public sales would be excluded from the category of qualifying liabilities of the bank. The issue of the level of recapitalisation in material terms is not so problematic, given that it is an investment that should be returned and recovered when the bank is properly managed. To give an example, the US has invested over $410 billion for the rehabilitation of the banks, but so far it has received all the funds refunded and has earned another 11 billion. I am confident that thinking will also go this way and that something will also be done in this direction on the basis of known facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u31	Thank you. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenka has the floor to prepare Mr Primož Hainz.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished representatives of the Bank of Slovenia and the Ministry of Finance, all of you are warmly welcomed! Today we are already talking about another rehabilitation of the banking system, which I think would not be necessary if we did not have so many state-owned banks, which is the price of our holding at every price at state-owned property, and I certainly regard it as negative. And all of this has now cost us almost €5 billion in tax money with only a second recovery. And of course, we rightly wonder whether this is final and whether this number has not been exaggerated, exaggerated. The reasons for the problems in the banking system are three in particular. The first is that loans were granted on friendly lines, the second is that credit insurance was inadequate and the third is in the irresponsible behaviour of bank management, supervisory boards of banks and also bank regulators, i.e. Banka Slovenije. It is more than obvious that banks have granted loans to companies and also to individuals unable to repay them. This was done on the basis of friendly relationships on the so-called. beautiful eyes and no insurance, as I mentioned. In view of this, we also know that the banks did not have the same criteria for all because most taxpayers or citizens of the Republic of Slovenia could not obtain a favourable loan at favourable interest rates and without adequate insurance. The situation created in the banking sector is thus, in my opinion, the result of incompetence or perhaps even intentional incompetence and the irregular part of certain elites. They pose a major problem, as we say, of unsecured or poorly secured loans. Hundreds of millions have disappeared because of this, but to this day no one has responded, which has already been exposed here. Yes, there have been complaints, a few more than 100 have been filed, but no one has answered yet. And on this point, I also wonder whether the competent authorities for detecting and prosecuting banking crime are doing all they need to do and whether they have all the knowledge necessary to investigate such crimes. If I return to inadequate insurance, banks have taken real estate for insurance, which have often been assessed too high or at unrealistic market values. Banks have taken into insurance movements, which are often almost impossible to sell on the market or not at the values they took. Banks have even taken non-performing stocks of companies into insurance. Stocks of 20 years of age that are absolutely impossible to use or sell on the market. And personally, I don't know the case that bank employees would go to the company before a certain loan was granted and see for themselves how this company breathes. Many times it would have been enough to just walk a little through the production halls, look at the way the production is organised, talk a little bit with the employees in this company and get a real picture of this company and what the real purpose of this company is. In view of the information that has come to the media, however, the question is rightly raised for many to see if the rehabilitation has been carried out transparently. The recapitalisation took place quickly, the removal of subordinated bonds was in a hurry, the transfer of bad claims was delayed and the methodology behind the transfer and recapitalisation of banks was hidden. On several occasions, an unusual valuation of the balance sheet of banks, mainly in the direction of the deterioration of the balance sheet, was exposed. This should give the Bank of Slovenia the legal basis for the removal of subordinates, but despite the many explanations already given on the committee and some of them here today, I am still not sure whether the matter in this area is now completely clear and unequivocal. Banka Slovenije as a regulator should, according to my assessment, be the owner, this is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, especially the right one. The Government should always provide the necessary information to enable it to act on time. Now I'm wondering, have these information actually been given in time? Because any concealment or adaptation of information for the State can be fatal. Finally, everything is going on, given that we have almost all the major state-owned banks at the burden of taxpayers. I also find it worrying that Banka Slovenije has no control, so to speak. As has already been pointed out, we must not forget the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court's judgment on objections made by holders of subordinated bonds for their deletion. This is an infringement of the rights of 100,000 citizens, and in the event of their settlement, this cost, the 600 million euros, will go back to the burden of taxpayers. Banks also have a huge impact on the functioning of the economy in Slovenia. As a result, if banks operate poorly, it also reduces economic growth and affects business failure. This is precisely why I think it is extremely important that we do everything possible to clear up the recovery of banks, and if irregularities in the damage to the budget or taxpayers are detected, these key actors must bear responsibilities. Those who leased the loans, those who gave them, and those who controlled them, must respond. Because of the poor reputation of banks and the fear of many bank employees, the opposite is happening today. Today, banks often find it difficult to lend or therefore require completely unreasonable insurance, but now it should be loans to the population or the economy. It seems to me extremely important that we have a healthy banking system, which is necessary for lending the economy, but must be based on sound foundations, crediting the right ideas, of course with adequate insurance. I think it is important that we clarify the four issues here today in particular. Was the assessment of the capital in banks appropriate? Were careful checks really done independently? Who are the culprits who are responsible for such a large percentage of bad loans in our banks? When can we expect normal lending of the economy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u33	Thank you. Mr Primož Hainz has the floor to prepare Mrs Mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u34	Dear President, colleagues, representatives of the bank, the Ministry! Of course, I apologize because I am not an economist, and of course I will ask some questions that appear to me on my own, given that, of course, I am thinking about things that are bothering us in this banking, financial, credit area. First question. Of course, we have two assessments – Roland Berger and Deloitte – between which the difference is more than a billion and the person comes by himself, not by the dates that some have already mentioned, but by suspicion, this is said to have been ordered. And this doubt is the one to whom none of today’s editorials have actually responded but also all that we have heard on radio and television. It was simply that subordinate holders of hybrid instruments had to be erased because it was some reserve money that was available. There is, of course, another question. On the contrary, whether the European Commission has really given instructions or has not given instructions to the Ministry of Finance to us, because we have somehow seen from the newspaper or from the media that communication noise can also occur. Face the right down, partial write-off, or right off, so complete write-off. Of course, we went to the form or variant of a complete write-off, which was obviously not necessary. The third thing I should mention is, of course, the doubts of some serious economists. Our brilliant economists doubt the credibility of calculating the size of the bank hole and therefore, of course, the question or even some suspicion is asked. Now, of course, the bad bank will give it a cheap gift, sell it, we call it privatisation, show it a profit or, if you want, the option is that those tycoons who have successfully re-analysed their earnings to other different islands will come here and buy what we will somehow cover with the 5 billion we have invested in taxpayers. If, of course, this does not hold all this together, then I must ask, because I have quite a feeling at Banka Slovenije that they say they are regulators, that they are advisors, and then what Banka Slovenije does. I apologize for this simple question, but what it does if it does not directly affect areas with such terrible financial consequences that we also owe our children and, I am afraid, even grandchildren. However, if the bank could not do so, then, of course, it was, excuse me, under a minimum option or the possibility of being obliged to say: The law does not allow us to regulate, to control, to advise or to follow our advice, please ask the Government to form or jointly to formulate a bill. And the bank should choose a different status. This is, of course, very simplistic, and yet I must make this point. People say the radio said again this morning: Everything would be fine in the field of financing or business if they had SDK. The SDK was terminated on purpose, so that the lumpariums would then take place. That's perfectly clear. Workers did not have to pay their wages, but owners or those who were in those functions, such or other, paid their profits. That was on purpose. If I make an analogy with the bank now, then of course I have some suspicion that some kind of same logic is being applied here. Banka Slovenije is unable to do anything, banks give loans without coverage and some individuals make brilliant profits, but most people do as they know and know. And with regard to what Dr. Križanič said, I think that we should absolutely carry out some of the audits or many audits in order to agree, among other things, not only on what the conclusions are, but also on re-auditing these valuations that we have carried out in recent years. And the last. Here, of course, I am most forgiving for the simple question. Not to defend the former Prime Minister. 25 police officers go in and break into or go into some place to name themselves or not to appoint herself as a function. With 5 billion debts, billions more, and so on, I don't repeat, we can't really get to someone who's supposed to be responsible. I have to say, something here doesn't work the way it's supposed to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u35	Thank you. The word has magic. Bojana Mursich. Get Mrs. Marusha Skopac ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Madam President. Representatives of the Government and Bank of Slovenia, Members and Members, nice greeting! Much has already been said by my colleague, Dr. France Križanič, so we will not be duplicating ourselves in our Group of Members. However, I must say that in reading this material and the facts found that such unacceptable behaviours are taking place in our banking system, I am very concerned. It is true that today has probably happened for the first time that somehow the coalition and opposition are all on the same side and we want a mental breakthrough forward and Slovenia something better. I hope that in this way we will hold and gain the confidence of citizens and citizens, by producing some common material more than once. Let me go to this material or recommendation. In Slovenia, debt increases. The most obvious is the fact that debts began to accumulate at the time of the conjuncture. I am asked why we are responsible for such conduct and whether we are truly such bad masters. Any good master should also, at a time when conjunctura is, save some resources, elevate them and have them for bad times. But here, with us, everything in our system stops. Unfortunately, our governing structure was not fit to do this. The debt went up. The crediting of the population and the economy has stopped. However, the taxpayers, who contributed their money to stabilise the banking system, were, through the removal of shares in banks, at the expense of their assets. I think this is the wrong world. They therefore rightly ask us, politicians, and Banka Slovenije for solutions. The resolution of the banking system is necessary, but not at the expense of taxpayers. We urgently need to ensure that the law enforcement authorities clear up the tycoons as soon as possible, find the culprits who have co-decided in banks that have made loans without adequate insurance and have led the banks to be on the verge of financial failure. Perhaps it would be really good for the banks to sell, as has already been mentioned several times today, but we have not done so. But what is required of Slovenia today to sell New KBM is extremely unacceptable, and let me tell you why. The state cleared New KBM's bad claims, recapitalised it, said it, and wrote it for 800 million euros, and now it would sell it for the fights 200 million euros. At the same time, every citizen is appalled, as I am, because we have recapitalised it with our taxpayer's money. Their book value, namely New KBM, is €640 million, so the fair price for selling this bank would be €900 million. For this reason, I really oppose the sale of the New KBM. In addition, it is not possible to overlook the fact that in November 2014 a single control mechanism began to operate, which showed that none of the banks would have any new deficits in 2016. I really don't know what taxpayers would have at home with their assets the way they do in our system. The recovery of the banking system was therefore carried out. The credit potential falls year after year, which is not good. Citizens and citizens would like to spend, but they simply have nothing. We are aware that in the last year we have produced more than we spend, which is causing deflation. So, let's stop squeezing, release credit crunches, the economy and the population, and thus achieve economic growth. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u37	Mrs Marusha Škopac has the floor to prepare Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and distinguished guests! Today we are discussing the role of Banka Slovenije in recapitalising banks and deleting owners of subordinate hybrid instruments. As the famous river says, after battle it's easy to be a general. After the end of the event and with the right distance to be critical of past events, it is quite different than to monitor decisions at the moment when, of course, no one can say with certainty what the future will bring. Since 2007, Banka Slovenije has warned the Ministry of Finance and Administration that credit growth is too high and that there is a risk of lowering the prices of securities and real estate. On the basis of this letter, they advised that the profits of banks should not be distributed for 2007 but be transferred to capital. This would strengthen the capital adequacy of banks. However, in 2007 and 2008 Nova Ljubljanska Banka and Nova banka Maribor paid together for almost 100 million euro dividends. Let us also ask which government has decided to go ahead with the early purchase of EUR 800 million bonds, which has brought too much liquidity to the banks and then directed towards credit. And since good market projects were not enough, projects that later proved completely unwarranted were also happy to be credited. Today to discuss whether the recapitalisation of Slovenian banks could be cheaper is, of course, legitimate and important, because we will be able to learn from all this. Not even in place to point to Banka Slovenije. It stated clearly and loudly that the rehabilitation of banks would be cheaper if they were implemented in 2008 or 2009, as soon as the crisis occurred. At that time, other countries did so, and banks survived the crisis more capital-backed than Slovenian banks. Slovenian banks have entered the crisis strongly undercapitalised. In addition, Slovenian companies have become heavily indebted to the crisis. And worst of all, the two largest state banks that had the largest credit growth in 2005 to 2008 are the most active in the period of the junction. If banks were recapitalised in due time, it would not be necessary to resolve by the State or at least not to that extent. Nor should the owners of subordinated bonds have to be reclassified because the banks would already be privately owned. Therefore, the privatisation procedures of banks should be allocated. The conditions of future state aid are even more acute now, which means that if the State is forced to resuscitate banks, in addition to the resuscitated owners of banks, it will also be necessary to rescind the owners of subordinated bonds as well as the depositors of banks, according to those in the individual bank with deposits above the value of EUR 100,000. And Mr Horvath, when we call on people's responsibility, let us call on those who have brought us into a state of over-indebtedness and capital inadequacy, and not those who have finally taken on the rehabilitation of the banking system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u39	Thank you. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky. Get Mr. Joseph Horvat ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. Hello, everyone! Since I don't have much time left, we imagine a glass of water that's half full of water. The pessimist will say, "You are a schmuck, the glass is half empty. The optimist will say, "It's not so bad. It's half full, and he'll drink it." If we give this same glass to the bankers, one banker will say that there are three quarters to seven eighths of water in it, and the other one will say, "Damn, I don't even see a glass." So, obviously, we had these stress tests with so - called independent counselors. They wandered a little in the fog, but there was panic in the banks. I know that from the whistleblowers who told me that. I listened very well to what the governor said. Now I'm going to quote something from the Bank of Slovenia. I'm sure they'll know where that came from. "If the projected losses by the negative scenario are compared to the June estimates by the method from above, we see that at the level of the entire predicted losses of the same size class." This is Spain, 2012, Oliver Wyman, Report for the National Bank of Spain, where, if you like, the aggregate estimate of the hole was 250 to 270 billion and the maps of 265 billion. Why am I telling you this? To show you that you can do something different. And here somehow I don't buy this, as the governor said, that this difference is part of the story of the pre-optimistic valuation of our banks. If we are now going to read the Bank of Slovenia report on 100 and some pages that I have read in detail, it says: We have warned, warned, warned, banks should, should, should. Of course, it can be smart back, but frankly, but I'm pretty much following the media, and I haven't seen anything, let's say that the ladies are more empathetic, that maybe in 2010 the vice-governor would call a Klemenčič some press conference, and say, "I'm not going anymore, I'm going to step down, I'm going to warn, I'm going to warn, I'm going to warn, and they're kind of buzzing me." Since I'm coming from Maribor, they've cut their hair in Maribor before this haircut. You know how it was. People waited in rows, but he didn't buy a car, he put it in the bank, and then those shares fell. That was, according to your household, a stretch. And what an ex, now certainly a submarine, a financial group around the RCC made good money in one day. If I touch these banks now, as we say in Maribor, finance says today that the APL is demanding a guarantee of about 1.5 billion for bad loans, liabilities to FURS, which are expected to further reduce these 200 million to 100 million. And often forget to say that the New Bank of Maribor has 681 million bonds, both state-owned and from a bad bank guaranteed by the State. I mean, you know, I'd buy a bank that way, too. I have a little more time. There was a hollow event in Maribor where Minister Počvalšek literally stated: "The privatisation in Slovenia is led by a stock exchange house and the government is responsible for it." I hope you heard that in the coalition. The press were there, but unfortunately it wasn't. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u42	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Once again a very nice greeting for everyone! I regret that my esteemed colleague Marush Škopac has just left the hall. I wanted to make her happy and say that we Christian Democrats often claim the names and names of the bank hole drillers. And today I also said that, with the reference to this meeting, we have no intention of decapitating any state institution. We're not gonna stop the privatisations. We're for the privatisation. We also advocate the autonomy of the Bank of Slovenia. We are in favour of having this opportunity to gain more confidence from citizens and citizens as of today's Bank of Slovenia and the National Assembly. Because before, I somehow understood many debaters that banks don't give credit, sit on capital, don't give credit. So, to give credits is not enough capital adequacy of the bank, it can be brilliant, of course, you need confidence. And what we all know needs to be done by our companies, that's a big problem. In this place, I must thank the Bank of Slovenia for the extensive report it has presented to us, where we can also find the following: "The rehabilitation of the banking system in Slovenia has been recognized. In 2008-2011, banks in EU Member States paid more than twice as much money for rehabilitation or capital adequacy as Slovenia did." And now we're where we are. Allow me at this time that I still have, maybe one trip into the past, and I won't go too far. Ladies and gentlemen, on 29 November 2013 we discussed the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Public Finance by an urgent procedure. This law we got overnight, on a piece of paper, A4 format, no more, A4 format, white paper sheet. That was about 14 days after the government of Alenka Bratusek experienced a confidant in this hall. And I remember – I have a magnetogram printed here – discussions that were really cholerous but qualitative at times. Above all, the opposition warned. I remember mags. Andrej Visiak, who said that this is the law that actually gives everything to the government, and if this law is passed, he will undermine parliamentary democracy, the Parliament will go around. This is what the former colleague said: "Intent, for all the recapitalisations of banks that will be required to an extent that we do not know at all what it will be like to empower the Government." That's what this law was talking about in A4 paper format. And the Members asked the representative of Vlademag. Matejo Vraničar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance – because then the government stated that money is not a problem to recapitalise, that we have money, that we have deposits and more – that it should still tell us what this number is and how much money we have. After a few hours of discussion, the secretary of state said we did, I can't quote because I don't have time, but I'll have at least one sentence. So, Secretary of State mag. Mateja Vraničar: "So we remain in what is already specified and the total amount of what is determined under the applicable Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia, if we add together, we reach the number 4.7 billion." November 29th, 4.7 billion. Look at the fragment! On 12 December, the publication of a capital mismatch or a domestic bank hole, which is practically identical, for eight banks. EUR 4 000 778 million was a capital deficit in these eight banks. We can say it's a coincidence. It's not a problem. I can't deal with this at the end of the day. But once again, on 29 November 2013 the secretary of state said: The country has 4.7 billion money. On December 12th, it is estimated that about 14 days later, the observed and publicly published capital inadequacy was virtually the same for 8 banks in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u43	Thank you. The word has magic. Ange Logar. Let's get Mr. Franz Ly ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u44	Thank you, Madam President. I'm afraid I'm going to have to agree with my colleague Krizanič's words when he said we probably won't get any answers today. I am afraid that the inactive involvement of Banka Slovenije representatives in the tax debate is also witnessing that today's debate will somehow not achieve what was the main purpose, and I am increasingly convinced that in the National Assembly and in general we will not lead to any normal conclusion if the National Assembly does not set up an investigative commission on the subject of a bank hole in Slovenia. For starters, I would just like to give you some general framework that we are talking about here today. We are talking about 2 000 500 euros per capita in the Republic of Slovenia, which we had to contribute to because some of the banks responsible were playing with bank money. In any case, this would not have happened if the actions of the responsible and supervisory institutions were as they should have been. The whole story has been told a lot, the consequences are known, and in general the Slovenian public are now somehow confirmed or accepted by this thesis that this and this magnitude holes have also occurred due to the late reaction of the responsible. But where are we today? We're in the pronunciation phase today. We are no longer in the detection phase, and we are no longer in the process of implementing the consequences, but we are in the stage of finding excuses. What we are listening to today, what we have been listening to in the past days, and what we have heard through various press conferences, are excuses for each other. First of all, the Bank of Slovenia is not to blame because it has responded appropriately, reacted in a timely manner and was subject to a regulation sent and delegated by Brussels. Alenka Bratušek and the government of Alenka Bratusek are not guilty of anything because they had no reason not to believe these professional grounds. And of course, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the current government is innocent and has nothing to do with it and has no reason not to trust those responsible for dealing with this bank hole. Now, the irony of the whole story is that those 5 billion still exist there, that the hole still exists and that 600 million euros were wiped out and that 100 thousand Slovenians paid part first by redistributing those shares they bought in NKBM, and then another time, with that money that went into privatisation. The responsible ones, whom I previously counted, argue socially and say that the methodology was imposed from the outside, that they did everything in their power and what was needed to be done, and that the fault was where they did not react in time. This thesis highlights and says Banka Slovenije in her report, saying that since 2009, she has mediated, wanted and demanded higher recapitalisation, but has not been heard. If we look at this chart published by Banka Slovenije in its report, we see that it was not taken into account in 2010 and 2011, then in 2012, 2013, 2014 was taken into account. From this we conclude, free from Banka Slovenije that we have a new culprit for the resulting bank hole, this is the government of Borut Pahor because it did not take into account the recapitalisation that would otherwise have come to the taxpayers significantly less. There were two parties in that government, SD and DeSUS, two thirds of the current coalition. In a way, the Bank of Slovenia has done everything in its power, and the fault lies with the government of Borut Pahor because it did not respond properly and in a timely manner. We also discussed procedures and criteria on the Committee on Finance. There were a lot of big words, the Bank of Slovenia said that they were very open all the time, they always provided enough information, they always answered the press questions, but remember what it was like when this affair with the subordinates broke out the second time. So when Mr Kotnik wrote a letter for one of the news portals or information portals, the Bank of Slovenia turned silent in its first response and said that they would not comment. Then, of course, under the weight of her eyesight, which were increasingly difficult, she gave in and had to react. On the Committee on Finance, where we discussed the report proposed by Nova Slovenije, the Bank of Slovenia also discussed how all methodologies and assessments were made from the outside and how all countries worked and evaluated under the same criteria. But I wonder if all that Banka Slovenije says is true? I am asking quite frankly, also because I am reminded of this by the All-Slovenian Association of Small Shareholders, which today in a letter we received from other Members, warned of at least three statements from that meeting which allegedly do not hold. Indeed, the vice-governor said at that meeting that in carrying out stress tests, the ECB has always used the European Commission's macroeconomic forecasts for all countries equally. Here the VZMD says that the truth is different, that as many as eleven of the eighteen members of the euro area have deviated from the spring forecasts covered by this. And I'd like a comment here from the central bank. Whose words do they hold, the words of the vice-governor, or those words that the Association cites? We have also heard earlier in the implementation and also in the Central Bank's report that the only main and measuring methodology is always to determine this bank hole by bottom up and that it is always imperative to take into account the worst scenario, but, as colleague Tonin has already pointed out, we have the case of Spain. Why was a different methodology used there, why was the combination both? Further, another observation by the All-Slovenian Association of Small Shareholders, to which I also want the central bank's response, which is in relation to the liquidation value of banks. The liquidation value of banks was the term used by Banka Slovenije and those responsible from the current government as an excuse for the deletion of small shareholders and bondholders or subordinates. In addition, the VZMD states that the liquidation value of banks based on extraordinary measures and on the removal of shareholders and shareholders was not produced under the ZBan-1L and therefore cannot be the legal basis for extraordinary measures. I would like the Bank of Slovenia to be defined to these words and these readings. The question raised is whether the Bank of Slovenia responded in time. If you have read in detail the report prepared by Banka Slovenije, you will find that Banka Slovenije has reacted quite leniently to the growing bank hole, all the time claiming that the situation in the high-level banking system is that we have safe banks, that there is nothing to be afraid of, but then we also find that the first serious impulses were essentially mediated from Brussels home rather than Banka Slovenije itself started to work actively. This chart, which they themselves publish, also attaches to where these scissors have spread significantly between the capital adequacy of our banks and banks at EU level from 2008 to 2012. If they were spreading, it means that something was wrong with the supervisory authority, that the supervisory authority did not respond adequately and that it did not use all the levers available to it. I therefore wonder whether the Bank of Slovenia has done everything in its power. Of course, she says that she has done everything that makes sense, for anyone who feels guilty or thinks that she is unfairly pointing to him says that there is nothing to blame. In Slovenia alone, we have led this story to absurdity that everyone who is truly responsible will blame someone else, Brussels or someone external, and they will never find their own faults. Then we have this table on how many measures have been taken or transmitted to Slovenian banks, which also excuses or corrects Banka Slovenije's activity. At the time these scissors spread, from 2009 to 2012, Banka Slovenije forwarded 565 measures. 565 measures, yet we have €5 billion in holes. There are two possible explanations. Whether these measures were not the right ones, that is, the Bank of Slovenia is to blame, or whether they were inadequate administrations and inadequate supervisory councils of these banks to which the measures were proposed. But here we have to be careful again. In 2009, the largest bank, which also had the biggest hole, was president of the Vice-Governor's Supervisory Board. In the next period, that is to say, in the coming years, Mr Simoneti, this is the one that the Government has called today or recently as the non-executed director of the bad bank, that is, the bank that deals with those credits that have been created there. And we're back in the vicious circle, when no one's guilty when no one's responsible, but on important key functions, they're always "rolling" one and the same people. As far as the government is concerned. Mr Dragonja said that he was also in the previous government, that is, in the government that made this deletion, that the government did not object to the debate on this, namely the responsible culprits for the bank hole. Look, this one's strong. We have 5 billion holes, and the government is not opposed to the debate. Let me warn you what you wrote in your coalition contract. You write: "In order to ensure a return of confidence in financial institutions, supervisory institutions and the rule of law institutions, it is necessary to define responsibility for the resulting bank hole and to demand compensation and material liability". See, according to the spirit and will of the coalition treaty, the government should not object, but should encourage a debate on the bank hole in the National Assembly. The government should encourage the establishment of an investigative commission to assist the Government, which could play an important role in identifying those responsible for the bank hole. Now here is a word about these letters, which are now being sent home from Brussels and Frankfurt to allegedly protect the integrity of the Bank of Slovenia. You know, with integrity and with these things, you have to protect them hard, you have to create them with your work, and you can destroy them very easily with your inadequate work. Integrity and independence are primarily a matter of function itself. Mr Cerar, given that Mr Dombrovskis, Vice-President of the European Union wrote to him, is certainly angry that Brussels is so pressing on the Slovenian government, especially given the knowledge of the position of Mr Cerar when he said before the elections that his party would not remove the Brussels dictatorship and that it is not fair or wrong to listen to everything Brussels tells us. In this respect, I give him the right, I think it is extremely inappropriate for the Vice-President of the European Commission to write to the President of the Government, who in principle has nothing to do with the central bank, since the Central Bank is an independent institution to protect the integrity of the Bank of Slovenia. And go ahead. Those who refer to the letters do not know if you have read them, I think you should read this letter from Mr Draghi, who also talked about these pressures and about this change in banking legislation. There's something you need to know. The Central Bank at European level and the European Commission have a way of using the term Mr Cerar, hand to elbows in marmalade, concerning the resolution of the banking system. The evidence is that it constantly changes the rules under which it operates, as have representatives of the Government and the Central Bank already communicated several times. If the rules are good and produce results, the rules shall stand and remain. However, if they need to be constantly changed, to establish a legal order or a vague state, something means something. And I assure you that, for example, the European Central Bank is very afraid of deciding, say, the Constitutional Court, whether or not the deletion of subordinate instruments is established. I guarantee you that he is very afraid, and that is why, even in more important measures, whenever the case is brought before a constitutional court in Germany, he always waits for these measures until the Constitutional Court decides. Not to represent Brussels and these letters as dry gold. Especially given the contents of these letters. Look, I think it is necessary to highlight some of the words that you will find in Mr Draghi's letter, which says: "The ECB points out that any violation of the law or constitution in itself does not in itself constitute a worse breach." Can you imagine that statement? We once had a statement in Slovenia that every pig is not yet punishable. That's a terrible statement. That's inappropriate. But this is where the ECB goes a step further. The ECB points out that any violation of the law or constitution in itself does not constitute a serious breach. What's worse than breaking the Constitution? What's worse? And then he goes on to say, "This should not be determined by the relevant national legislator as to what constitutes a worse breach." The ECB tells us that the violation of the Constitution is not a serious breach and that we must not put it in our law. I think we should all, especially the Prime Minister of the Government, who is a lawyer, go hair up. This way to work and make this an argument, let us shorten this debate, forgive me, I think the matter is becoming increasingly problematic and I wonder how I should believe the European Central Bank and its pure and fair purpose if it tells me that the violation of the Constitution is not necessarily a serious breach. To conclude only with regard to the deletion of subordinates. There's been a lot of talk. They say that it was necessary to erase the bank hole, but look what could happen to us. It could happen to us that the filling of the bank hole would be even more expensive for 600 million Euros for the reasons that the responsible have stated that they have justified the deletion. Another 600 million plus interest is more expensive. That is why I expect the Constitutional Court to declare this deletion or part of this deletion a non-constitutional one so that all the main actors who have been in that story and who are still today will immediately step down. Since the whole argument was then unconstitutional, even though the European Central Bank assures me that every violation of the Constitution in itself does not constitute a serious breach. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u45	Thank you. The text shall be delivered by a representative of the proposer, Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u46	Stoic tolerance of criticism is a beautiful property, but nevertheless I would urge the representatives of the Bank of Slovenia and also the Government to engage somewhat in debates, because it looks more or less like monologue and one-way communication. I am sure that the Members did not refer this meeting to convince each other, but to obtain further explanations from the competent authorities. I think we've been talking for a few hours now, and it would be right for us to respond to something in the Bank of Slovenia or in the Government, that communication is running a little bit, and to at least tell us where we are shooting past or what things we're right about. Because if someone's even sitting quietly, saying nothing, and we're barking at nothing here, then I'm asking myself about the purpose of this session. This meeting only makes sense under the assumption that there will be an exchange of views between us, that Banka Slovenije will try to explain certain things, which will also make Members and people better understand only the rehabilitation of the banking system. However, I would have asked the Governor to respond to all the many questions raised so far in the debate, starting with whether the rehabilitation was timely, untimely, whether this made the rehabilitation much more expensive, what had happened to the regulator, that at some point he was saying that everything was under control, and at another point things were chaotic and uncontrollable. The second question, which has been raised several times today, is stress test scenarios. I would expect some answers as to why there are individual differences between countries, in specific cases, we do not think about the case, we have the case of Spain, as well as the differences that have occurred in countries in 2014. If I am even a little more specific about these things, then I would say that the Bank of Slovenia also comments a little bit on the allegations when it was always argued that the input parameters of the European institutions, including the European Commission, should be taken into account in stress tests. For example, if we read their material, namely the Report on a Careful Review of the Banking System and Measures, they say, on the one hand, that the European Commission's 2014 forecast for Slovenia was negative 1%, and then you go five pages forward, on page 5, and you find that the macroeconomic scenario for stress test, for example in the 2014 baseline scenario, took into account the decline in GDP by minus 1.5%. This also needs commenting on why things like this have become more acute in this way. About the methodology. I am confident that there will be eternal differences between us, Members who want to know everything, and representatives of the central bank who are scrupulously sticking to bank secrecy. But we probably all agree that if we have paid something, then we also have the right to know how a certain thing has been done. If it can't be our way, then I think Banka Slovenije can go at least so far as to order the execution of these stress tests and the assessment of the assets of banks and can't tell us how this thing worked on specific cases, because it's bank secrecy, then it can give us some fictional examples to see how a particular thing was done technically. I'm sure that would solve some sort of problem as well. I would therefore ask the representatives of the Bank of Slovenia to participate somewhat in the debate and to see this debate revived.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u47	Thank you. A representative of the Government, Secretary of State of Method Dragonja, Ministry of Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like to provide some answers to the questions raised both by the groups of Members and Members of Parliament during the discussion. One key issue has been raised several times, namely whether the Republic of Slovenia has given too much to remedy banks. It is said whether this capital inadequacy of banks has, in fact, been overly critical or too profound to say so. The answer to this question clearly requires a very good knowledge of all these methodologies and of all that has already been explained in the course of the opening appearances and also several times on the committees. However, I would like, in comparison, to direct all Members and Members in this aspect of the thinking, as well as how many other countries in the European Union have put in place to rehabilitate their banks. Did we give disproportionately large, on average, or did we give disproportionately little? In such or other forms, the banking crisis has been dealt with by virtually all European countries, some even more significantly than we have. Now I don't have numbers with me, but a very general number is if we measure this as a percentage of gross social product, that Slovenia has invested in the rehabilitation of its banking system somewhere on the average of European countries. More have been given by countries such as Ireland, Iceland, Greece, Cyprus. We're a little above the Spanish level. But then there are countries that are better than us. I think that this comparison is in itself, independent of all these specific issues, a good point of reference, where we can assess what our weaknesses were in the banking system and how much we had to devote to re-establishing the normal functioning of the banking system. So we are somewhere on the average of the European Union countries. Secondly, I think it is very important to stress that the pressure on bank recovery was greatly increased at the time of the financial crisis in Cyprus, which was in spring 2013. In fact, this problem of Cyprus indicated that it would be able to trigger the domino effect, and it was estimated that Slovenia would be next in line to ask for financial assistance from the rescue fund and that it would have to invite the troika. Thus, in some chronology of events, it is also necessary to look at the situation in international financial markets and how this was reflected in Slovenia. In this light, the European Commission then issued one of the recommendations to the Republic of Slovenia – I think it was given in May or June 2013 – in which the European Commission explicitly called on Slovenia to carry out legitimate reviews of the quality of bank assets and take measures to remedy its banks. But the first condition was, in fact, a comprehensive review of banking assets and a finding of problems in the banking system, because, in fact, the first assessments made in the light of the tightening of international financial markets were not sufficiently reliable. This led to the demand that new consultants were brought in, that then the quality reviews of bank assets were carried out in accordance with additional, more stringent criteria and that Slovenia should have in fact completed these checks and also take into account the European Commission's communication on granting State aid to the banking system, which, as regards the burden-sharing among the various participants in the resolution of banks, increased substantially on 1 August. Both the Commission on Public Finance Control and the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy gave detailed explanations of how the system of State aid approval has expired. Here I would particularly like to provide an additional explanation on Mr Dolinsk's questions, whether the European Commission has expressly conditioned its consent by deleting subordinate financial instruments. The answer is yes, since the communication was published on 1 August 2013, it is an internal act or act of the European Commission which lays down the rules by which it approves State aid. This Communication refers to State aid to support measures in favour of banks in the context of the financial crisis. In fact, the European acquis in this part is a European acquis, which is not necessarily summarised in national legislation, because it must be applied only by those Member States that apply for State aid. We have already transferred the competence to the European Commission by means of an association agreement, which this National Assembly has also voted on. In this segment, as regards the approval of State aid and the adoption of measures for the rehabilitation of banks, Slovenia is in fact no longer sovereign in this process because it has fully transferred its competence to the European Commission. Furthermore, interpretations or questions related to whether Slovenia would have submitted its full role and requirements before 1 August 2013, or if individual banks had made a request for financial assistance through the Ministry of Finance, could still be dealt with in accordance with the rules applicable until 1 August. In principle, yes. In particular, the differences between the first role played in early 2013 and the findings following the reassessments carried out on the bank assets were so large that the European Commission requested that the principles already in force from 1 August 2013 be applied. Even those individual cases or those banks that were still dealt with in accordance with the principles that were in force until 1 August 2013 could, after milder measures and with less costly recapitalisations at that time, obtain the consent of the European Commission, but it must be explicitly pointed out that the problem that occurred at the beginning of March with the publication of new disclosures on the financial crisis in one of the major banks in our immediate neighbourhood, which in this regard has been repeatedly cited as an example for our banks, that these latest discoveries have shown that in the Hypo Alpe Adria system there are additional large losses or potential losses and capital deficits of EUR 6 and 7 billion. That the measures carried out under the lighter rules were not sufficient, were not sufficiently effective and that there were also additional risks, the additional assessments which have now brought into a rather awkward situation all those involved in the further regulation of this situation and will, inter alia, require new principles for the resolution of financial institutions, and in this case also the contributions of creditors, not only the contributions of owners or investors to subordinate financial instruments. By proposing or requesting that the discussion also lead in terms of the dynamics it was, and of the broader international dimensions in which the ability of Slovenian banks was assessed at that time to respond to the shocks in the economic environment in which they were operating and therefore to be properly trained. It follows from this that the measures have been implemented adequately, that they have been sufficiently cost-effective and balanced, by ensuring to banks that they have stabilised their business further and that confidence in the banking system has been restored. However, trust is largely due to the fact that deposits have started to rise again, which have started to decline significantly since the start of the Cyprus financial crisis and have declined significantly in 2013 and, following the measures implemented in 2014, have risen again and are now at a higher level than before these most critical moments. Finally, the response to the implementation of the measures was carried out in a timely manner. More than once, the thesis is that if they had been implemented earlier, measures would have been cheaper, they would not have demanded so much tax money. Maybe it looked like that 14 days ago. Today it doesn't look like that anymore. However, it must be said that there was no political unity in the governments at the time, that we were before the political crisis, and that the various political parties in their programmes have made it clear that they will no longer devote the euro to recapitalising banks or to rescue banks. And if we went to look at the political parties' programmes that were then either in position or in opposition today, virtually none of the political parties made it clear that they would continue to participate or support the resolution of the banking system as a whole. Slovenia then led to the fact that the international development of the situation had to be carried out, and the government, which in the spring of 2013, then took action to ensure that these activities had been carried out, recognized this and conceived the measures in such a way that they had achieved their purpose and then ensured the resolution of the banking system to a sufficient extent, which allowed Slovenia to virtually eliminate these distortions and that it could gradually restore the confidence of both investors in banks, as well as gradually establish the conditions for banks to resume their credit activity. These confidence-return processes just take a little longer, but they need to be viewed with some degree of prudence, and if this is to be ensured, I think that, above all, it is necessary to focus in advance on ensuring the efficient functioning of banks in the future, that all practices in the banking system that represent responsible and effective risk management that banks face in their work must be implemented. That would be a few more explanations. Perhaps those Members who did not take part in the work of the committees did not have the opportunity to hear these additional points. However, I think that this will further lighten something and allow you to better assess the situation and to make it easier to draw up your opinion and then, with a calm conscience, also support the conclusions proposed by the proposer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u49	Thank you. Dr. Boštjan Jazbec, Governor of Banka Slovenije, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u50	Thank you. I agree with both Mr Tonin and Mr Logar, that it would probably make sense to say something in between, but from 9 hours of debate, which requires the Bank of Slovenia to explain and explain the methodology, you have only spent 1 hour on the Bank of Slovenia. So 8 hours is your debate, 1 hour is our answer. I understand that we have the procedural right to answer all the questions at the end, and we have simply decided to prepare as carefully as possible the answers to your questions and concerns at the end of the whole debate. In addition, I would also like to point out what Ambassador Logar said if I may quote him from Tuesday's meeting: "... that this is true, also this material which the Bank of Slovenia has provided for today's debate. I guarantee you that there is no person in this room to read this material, three-quarters of this material sucks." Whatever Banka Slovenije is preparing, you have doubts, which is why we are simply trying to prepare ourselves as much as possible to give a reasonable answer to all your questions and concerns. In addition, the Bank of Slovenia did not itself propose to prepare this report, but at its meeting on 30 January you requested the Bank of Slovenia to prepare a report. We have prepared this report. If we wanted to do this to be different, you as Members of this matter would probably seduce someone else to prepare a report on the role of the Bank of Slovenia in this. On the constitutionality of what Banka Slovenije has done, however, I assure you that everything Banka Slovenije has done has been done in accordance with the applicable legislation you have adopted in this National Assembly, so if I may, we will wait procedurally until the end and answer all your questions and concerns at the end when we collect all your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u51	Thank you. Mag. Ange Logar, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Madam President. There you have that pile of material that I referred to, and so side-facing that you can see, for the first time, that the papers are purely fresh, that they weren't read, and for the second time, that they're print articles. If this is, so is the turn of the press articles that Banka Slovenije offers to Members to explain its role in filling the bank hole, then I am even more confident that the Commission of Inquiry is the only option that we will get to the bottom of the matter and that Banka Slovenije will also have enough time to answer each of the questions raised properly. So that it won't be limited to 60 minutes in time, but that it will be able to speak as much as it wants. But I hope she doesn't read the press articles at the time.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u53	Thank you. Dr. Boštjan Jazbec wanted the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u54	Ambassador Logar, of the two-twenty annexes, the press articles are only an annex of forty-nine. All the rest are annexes that confirm and substantiate what is stated in the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u55	The text was requested by a representative of the proposer, Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u56	I don't have a replica, but as a proponent, I'd like to discuss it. Thank you, Governor, for your response. You must not conclude everything after one Member. If one Member says that he failed to read the material, that does not mean that no one has read it. However, I think that we have talked a lot about your work, certain things have also been on the committee, where you have not been, commended, but I think that most Members have read your report, which is written on about 100 pages, but all the rest are annexes. But that thing was able to read and learn from it. Of course, further clarifications are needed. Well, if you have decided to answer in the end, I understand you, but you will probably also reduce the debate further by answering a number of questions yourself. Because if you follow the debate closely, sometimes Members also repeat each other what things we point out several times. And if you answer immediately, then perhaps one that is still on the list for discussion prevents him from repeating one and the same thing. Let me say a few words about the legal basis. I believe that the Banking Act, which was adopted in November 2013, is a fundamental and fundamental amendment to the resolution of the banking system. This is the substance or basic basis on which the last rehabilitation of the Slovenian banking system was carried out. This law was based on a Communication from the European Commission entitled Communication from the Commission on the application of State aid rules to support measures in favour of banks in the context of the financial crisis from 1 August 2013. The difference between us, i.e. between some parliamentary groups, and the Bank of Slovenia and the Government, on the other hand, is that some of us, at the time of the adoption of this law, have claimed that this communication is non-binding because, in our understanding, only a directive and a regulation are legally binding in the legal order of the European Union. But that's our different view, yours and ours, and we're not gonna make it to the end. This final decision will obviously be decided by the Constitutional Court, which also asked the European institutions about what matter. But even if we say that your word is true and that we agree that what you say is true and that this thing was binding for Slovenia in the process of repairing the banking system, then it is also necessary to clarify certain things that may be misinterpreted in public, in particular the former President of the Government and the former Minister of Finance have repeatedly reiterated that, in order to grant State aid, this ugly Europe or the European Commission has demanded that we be divulged by shareholders and bondholders. If you read this message correctly, at least I don't understand it. If you think I'm reading things wrong, please correct me. Since Article 15 does not speak of complete decommissioning or write - down, it does speak of a just division of burdens. Well, that's an important difference for my grades. Of course, then all things get complicated when we come to this, because of course you're arguing that if the thing is negative, then there's nothing to divide the burden fairly, but then we're back on methodology and stress tests and we're back in the same circle. You may now understand that we do not want to put anyone in an awkward position, but just to explain clearly and loudly and to say that your position is like this, ours is like that, in the end will be decided by this and the result as it will be, we will all have to take such a result. This is, for example, one of the reasons why I encourage all of you to say a word more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u57	Thank you. Dr. Boštjan Jazbec, Governor of Banka Slovenije, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u58	Look, we are gathering the entire debate of all Members and we want to answer all the questions and that is why we are doing this. And in the meantime, I'm going to say again what I said to the intros and, obviously, as you yourself have found out, is a problem. On the one hand, this is a problem of trust in the procedures that have been carried out and, on the other hand, the legal and substantive problem of eliminating subordinates. First, the economic situation in Europe and the world was incomparable to everything that has happened since the last major global economic crisis in the beginning of the previous century. In Slovenia, this economic situation has probably been further contributed by a different environment, which some of you have illustrated through the whole process of privatisation and transition. Yes, we can confirm that this situation was exceptional. As I have already said several times, by October 2008, countries in the European Union have already tried to mitigate the economic crisis in a way that allowed all countries to recapitalise banks by at least the end of 2010, with the exception of State aid rules in these countries. And if you look at page 28 in our report, all European countries have largely recapitalised their banks, both private and state, in 2008-2011, and have responded to all the problems of the financial crisis, particularly the banking crisis. In Slovenia, the percentage of State aid was lower compared to other countries, which means that the obvious response we are responding to in our report that Slovenia has responded too late to the resolution of the banking crisis is true. Second thing. Banka Slovenije is a supervisor who determines the capital adequacy of banks operating in the Republic of Slovenia, these are domestic banks and these are foreign banks. All the banks. We do not classify by ownership, they are all banks operating in Slovenia. And what happened, and what we find in our report, is that banks that had majority foreign ownership reacted differently in the crisis than banks that owned most of Slovenia, such as private banks, these were two banks, Probank and Factor Bank. and the majority state bank. In doing so, the Bank of Slovenia – and this is also recorded in the report – demanded additional recapitalisation of Slovenian banks, which did not take place mainly in 2010 and 2011. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not wish to provide additional capital to these banks. And what happened? These banks had to meet capital requirements by starting to transform their balance sheets so that they could simply reclassify worse loans and form more reservations themselves, and the final result was probably less credit growth, which is not the fault of the Bank of Slovenia, but someone who simply did not want to recapitalise those banks. Ambassador Križanič is not here at the moment, he was a finance minister at the time and probably has the most answers to why the then government in the Republic of Slovenia, as already mentioned, did not react to these things. The third key issue that I can draw from your discussions is the issue of deletion. The removal of subordinates was a consequence, not a cause of capital requirements. And I hope you understand that there are two questions here. One is the legal issue that is being addressed today mainly in the Constitutional Court and the other is the substantive question. The content issue is related to the way in which the capital deficit is assessed in Slovenian banks. The entire schedule of requirements for Slovenia to carry out a careful review of Slovenian banks was presented both at a press conference and at a meeting of the Commission on Public Finance Supervision and has been running since 2009 and 2010, respectively, when the first warnings on macroeconomic imbalances began, and in particular at the end of 2012, when the European Commission simply requested Slovenia to carry out a careful review of Slovenian banks. On 17 July 2013, when I became Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, this requirement was more than obvious. Why? Because the situation in the Slovenian banking system and the Slovenian economy has deteriorated from week to week. And what did we do? It was also a matter of public tendering for all independent operators of due diligence. We did this legally with a secret invitation to tender. Why? Because we were simply in time trouble, mainly because of all the problems that happened in Slovenia at the time in 2013. This is legally irrefutable and, I understand, perfectly legal. In addition, the issue of banking or financial stability was a matter of concern. Now we get to the methodology. Methodology has been published and published for over a year. In particular, if you look at Table 8 in the methodology published on the Bank of Slovenia website, almost 30 billion assets of Slovenian banks were reviewed nominally at the end of 2012. This averages about 65 to 70 % of the assets of Slovenian banks. What happened first? First, independent companies Deloitte and Ernst & Young carried out asset quality reviews. The asset quality reviews first classified the claims on those operating loans and on non-active loans. Then within this they classified companies into those engaged in real estate activities and those dealing with all others. Finally, they classified the restructuring claims, i.e. those where the loan was being renewed, among the bad loans. All of this is explained precisely on several pages in the methodology and the total volume covered once again on page 35 4 thousand 253 credit maps, including for small and medium-sized enterprises 972 credit maps, for large enterprises of thousands of 38 credit maps, for real estate brokers of 823 credit maps, for mortgage loans of 855 credit maps and for consumer credits of 565 credit maps. These credit maps were reviewed physically by Deloitte and Ernst & Young. On the basis of these assessments and the classification of claims there was a finding of negative capital in six Slovenian banks: NLB, NKBM, Abank, Bank Celje and both banks in liquidation. As the bank cannot deal with negative capital, this was the basis for either the start of the bankruptcy or, on the other hand, the recapitalisation request. In order for the recapitalisation to take place, these banks had to be put into stress tests for the period until the end of 2015, which Oliver Wyman did for all banks in principle from the bottom up. The bottom-up principle is the official methodology used in all the stress tests carried out by the Eurosystem. For calibration and in particular for ventilation of these results, and in particular for any methodological concerns, it was also necessary to carry out the stress from above down, for which we or the banks hired Roland Berger, who only helped to rewind the results from below. How were stress tests performed? Stress tests were carried out on the basis of two scenarios: favourable and unfavourable. Mr Shircelj asked about the assumptions for these scenarios. On page 64 of the report, the table shows precisely the assumptions for the next three years in the movement of private consumption, gross investment, contribution to net exports, employment, EURIBOR, required return on 10 annual government bonds, harmonised price index, housing prices, current balance of payments and public debt. This is in a report that we sent to the National Assembly on Tuesday 3 March and is published on the website Banka Slovenije. But more. This is also published in the methodology report, which has been published for more than a year on the Bank of Slovenia’s website, on page 17. The same data, which means that the data on which input data entered the methodological part of the stress tests, I hope they are answered. Why stress scenarios? Scenarios are not a competition in predicting the future, but are scenarios that simply require banks to survive these scenarios so that they can normally do their job. Those of you who today claim that in the second half of 2013 knew that the situation, without anything happening in the Slovenian banking system and in the Slovenian economy in 2014, would improve, please raise your hand to clarify these things, the situation 2013 and the situation today. Today's situation is largely due to what we did at the end of 2013 and not vice versa. It is repeatedly asked why we have not done these burden tests and asset quality reviews today when the situation is much better, but it is forgotten that today's situation is due to what we have done in 2013. More than that, we will also be doing stress tests and asset quality reviews this year because the European Central Bank – and we, Banka Slovenije and Slovenia – will be in the euro area – stress tests and asset quality reviews will work on an annual basis, every year. If you look at today's assumptions, the assumptions for the baseline scenario are always taken from the European Commission's forecast. For 2013, these spring 2013 forecasts were corrected for actual data and for stress tests or for a careful review of 2014 and for the autumn forecasts of the European Commission. However, the European Central Bank or the European Financial Stability Committee – the European Systemic Risk Board – is always preparing assumptions for an adverse scenario, which are checked on the basis of independent assessors in all European Union countries and corrected in accordance with its methodology. Why were these inputs different for Slovenia from Austria and Italy? Because in 2013 Slovenia was in a worse economic situation than Italy, Austria and all other countries, and because we are in a better position than everyone else today, it is to be expected, and we will also confirm that in this year's stress tests this data will be better than in other countries. Banka Slovenije could not have affected these things. And the allegations that Banka Slovenije manipulated the data in a way that could be deleted are unfounded and I must strongly reject them. Why? Because Banka Slovenije did not physically receive data from banks that entered the asset quality reviews because the asset quality reviewers did so, namely Deloitte and Ernst & Young. If there are concerns about these matters, then it is best to ask these companies whether the Bank of Slovenia has manipulated or prepared these companies in any way to calculate exactly such data so that all holders of subordinated bonds could be deleted on this basis. And this is where we get to this economic content of the deletion. As I have already said, asset quality reviews have shown that six Slovenian banks had a negative review. Once I made a comparison between tests or stress tests, and I used a comparison of the general physician and the specialist. I hope you'll allow me to take this opportunity to apologize to the Association of Family Medicine Doctors, who sent me a letter of protest, that I used them carelessly in my comparison. Because I said that when you go to a general doctor with a headache, he probably prescribes aspirin when you go the second or third time he sends you to a specialist who can figure out a bigger problem in your head. And in doing so, I hope that this apology will be accepted, I was just thinking of an easier illustration of what is the difference between normal checks and careful examinations. And what we did in 2013 was a careful review. Banks, Nova Ljubljanska Banka and all other banks that are participating companies must publish their data every quarter under the Company Act. The new Ljubljana Bank is 30. 9. publish the data on the basis of its valuations of the value of its assets. Banka Slovenije, or in this case Deloitte, which carried out a careful review, found that, once again, by classifying the existing loans, by classifying the real estate companies and, in particular, by classifying the restructured ones, i.e. those revolving loans among bad loans, it simply found different data. In these matters, Banka Slovenije had nothing physically and all these observations on Banka Slovenije are completely unfounded. In the end, one more question. Why recapitalisation, or why such a major problem of recapitalisation or state aid issues, and why are we now talking about privatisation? In order to enable the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to use the taxpayer's money to recapitalise banks that had a capital deficit, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had to undertake, by virtue of State aid rules, that this was a single and non-repetitive measure, which means that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to prevent the bankruptcy of these banks, was able to use the taxpayer's money to recapitalise these banks, undertook to sell these banks. This is based on State aid rules. One last thing. New credits in Slovenia do not depend on Banka Slovenije. On 3 January, fourteen days after we recapitalised banks in Slovenia on 18 December 2013, I said that it was only necessary, but not enough, for the recovery of credit growth and economic growth. There they have all the leverage on how Slovenian banks, their owners, work. In Slovenia, in 60% of the banking system is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and all other owners of banks operating in the Republic of Slovenia. In these matters, Banka Slovenije merely monitors whether everything is in accordance with regulatory and other legal provisions and does not lead the business policy of business banks in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Ly has the floor. Get Marjana Kotnik Poropat ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u60	Dear President, thank you for the word I've been waiting for for a long time. But whoever's waiting, waits. It's okay. Today is Friday 13th, the subject is real, very important, responsible. In any case, there is only one error in the whole matter, namely that this topic should have been dealt with several years ago. That's the way it is. I will also immediately tell you whether the recapitalisation was carried out in due time. I don't think so. That's why I said that before. That's why we have the price we have, like, six billion circuses somewhere. That's it. The banking system that started to bleed has been bleeding for a long time, and the wound has only healed now. Why? Who's the culprit here? Is Banka Slovenije here or someone else? Are the governments of that time? I don't know. Let each of you think about it and see if it is. But the fact is that a hole does not arise in one year because we know that lending is just a long process, usually a 5, 7, 10 or 15 years old, and banks are likely also because of poor credits, poor investment, they may have had to make reserves, and sometimes they've hidden something. It may have been very difficult for Banka Slovenije or any government to react in a timely manner. We have heard that there was once not enough political will to remedy the situation by public means, that is to say, the banking system. That's the way it is. We are here and thank God that we have dealt with things and that the situation has improved significantly. This is also evident at every step, including in terms of accessibility to financial markets. The price of capital also gives clear signs that a number of things have also been done well. But the price may be too high. Could a recapitalisation be carried out with State aid in such a way as to avoid the deletion of subordinated obligations? As we heard, no. The fact is that when it is necessary to cover a loss, whether it is a bank or an economic company, for the first time, the loss is definitely covered in the capital burden. And if there is not enough capital, capital inadequacy occurs, then of course there is the owner's responsibility, whether he will recapitalise or not, or there are known procedures. It's over. This is a real bankruptcy and liquidation that is still available. That's when politics decided to rehabilitate the banking system in a way that it was. It is extremely important to me that this money has somehow gone up and has not been found in the economic sphere to put our economy at a higher technological level, that is to say in a higher degree of competitiveness, then today would be much easier to discuss here, at least I, and much easier to accept this topic in the way it actually is. But I would certainly like to say the following. Much has been said about whether the recapitalisation was to the right extent. Maybe, maybe not. The studies just show that yes, but then there was something said about the scenarios. I couldn't agree more. Scenarios are both possible and different. What will be the reality? My opinion is that if economic growth lasts at least at this level, as it is, then recapitalisation may even prove excessive. Most importantly, banks get a socially responsible owner because this situation in which the banking system has come is undoubtedly the result of the failure of management, management and control mechanisms in some way. I think that we should no longer afford it in the future, because we know that the economy is already exhausted and that another such shock would certainly not bear. I therefore hope, as I have already said, that this long debate will also have positive consequences in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor. Get Dr. Bojan Dobovšek ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Madam President! I will also say that I am not an expert on bank operations, so my debate will be more lax. I would like to draw attention to some things and to some events that have taken place in recent years or months. In short, my view of it. But I would like to say one more opinion, because I cannot agree with the proposaler who said that the Government and Banka Slovenije, the distinguished Governor, should answer our views, our questions and our views, that we should not discuss it. Look, when I prepare for the debate, I'm just going to prepare these things that I think I have to say. Then, of course, I will try not to repeat myself, but it can happen to me, so I think we are in this House just to say our views on some things and then see where we are. So today I have come forward with or prepared for this debate because of the questions that come to us Members of the National Assembly as well as to citizens in relation to this rehabilitation of banks and all these events, and of course also because they are asking us and our constituents, our citizens are demanding answers and, of course, they are expecting action. That is why all members of this National Assembly have decided to sign this request to convene today's extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, in which we will take note of the facts that have led to the situation in which our banking system is today, or to take note of the reasons that have led to large bank holes and to the changing data on the amounts needed for the recapitalisation of banks and the write-off of subordinated bonds, or to the declassification of bondholders. By addressing the issue of recapitalisation of banks and removals of owners of subordinated hybrid financial instruments, we would therefore like to come up with an answer in this National Assembly regarding alleged, repeated, alleged irregularities in the recapitalisation of banks. Above all, we want to answer the question whether the calculation of the bank's negative capital has been prepared with a view to decommissioning the owners of subordinated bonds. I'm talking about assuming it's an assumption and I just want to talk about it or get an answer. I also point out that the estimated value of this bank hole, from two billion 800 to four billion 800 million euros, was changed on 30 September 2013. This, of course, increased the value of this bank hole and it was necessary to provide an additional EUR 2 billion to recapitalise banks. That's a lot of money. I'm asking if this might have been done in order to dispel these owners of subordinate bonds. It would also raise the issue of the supervision of the Bank of Slovenia, which is not regulated as it should be or as expected to be regulated. Actually, there was something already said about it today, and I'll say it again. The Court of Auditors is expected to revise the Bank of Slovenia in 2012, but it was found that the revision of the Bank of Slovenia, which would be carried out by the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, is not possible because it is contrary to the international requirement for the independence of the Bank of Slovenia. This is said to be an international requirement for the independence of the Bank of Slovenia. Of course, I don't think that's appropriate, especially as long as we recapitalise bank holes with taxpayers' money. I think we must also provide supervision of banks and also of the Bank of Slovenia for such a long time. Regarding this bank hole, Mr Dragonja said that this rehabilitation of banks in our country was somehow in proportion or on average European countries. Then it was also said that more had been given by Ireland, Iceland, Greece and Cyprus, and so on I agree and understand this data, but because I say that it happened that we had to recapitalise two billion to increase it later, it's a little bit of a getaway. Or maybe I'll get that answer, but if the well-respected governor has already said that, I've overheard, but I'm sorry. I would also like to comment on the sale of the New Bank of Maribor. We recapitalised Maribor's New Bank of Credit with EUR 800 million, and now we're going to sell this bank for, I'll say, a shameful EUR 200 million. It is true, as the well-respected governor said just before, that our government committed itself to recapitalising these banks by recapitalising them with tax money, then selling them. But I think we still have to demand that the price is right. What's the right price, I'd hardly say, but I think it should be assessed by the profession, and I think 200 million for New KBM is really too little. I'd like to finish this and thank you for your attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Dr Bojan Dobovšek has the word to prepare Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u64	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, all those who follow this session! The key problems have already been exposed, and I would like to highlight what we have not yet discussed in some way today. The transparency of the work of both banks and the Bank of Slovenia is crucial, however, and to identify the responsibility of all those involved. The economic crisis in which I represent the view that this is due to financial crime is primarily due to deregulation in the global markets, which has allowed banks to go to new businesses and new financial products in all areas, and, on the other hand, there has been a reregulation of the entire sector in those segments that have had no key effects. So we've allowed banks to do what they're not supposed to do and reregulation all the other sectors, and this has led to a bank hole in this legal void. Instead of being financed by banks, the economy has used these loans that it has received for speculative investments, but the key problem that has not yet been sufficiently exposed today is that banks have invested in financial transactions rather than in the investment in the economy that it needs. And that's the key to the problem. It was also found by Banka Slovenije. There were 18 models presented that somehow led the banks to this bank hole from which they could not see the way out. The key problem is whether these 18 models, which have been identified – this is property, it is derivative financial products – can be repeated in the future and whether regulation will regulate this in such a way that we will no longer do so in the future. So this is a crucial moment for me, this preventive moment that these derivatives will not come to pass. The problem with Slovenia is the fact that banks have a lot of money, the economy says that this money can't come to, and I'm afraid that banks will re-enter the financial markets, to invest in these financial markets, by inventing new financial products like Milton Friedman's school, which has brought us into the situation we are in. I still represent the view that these new financial products are, on the one hand, a crime. Of course, it is the defence of those who have done so that they find it difficult to prove slander, but I think it is the role of the regulator to prevent such behaviour. A key point in this is that banks can go after profits in the financial market instead of financing the economy. The economy also found, on the one hand, that it was easier than producing certain goods and selling these goods to earn in the financial markets and that the credits it had received for the development of the economy rather focused on financial products. It's on the regulator to stop it. Who's gonna control the regulators? Of course, it's the Court of Auditors, and then we're like Parliament. And that is why this meeting has taken place today, and that is why the Parliament will be the one to oversee the supervisors on the basis of these replies. The original sin is still in banks and it is the regulator who will have to make sure that it does not happen again. I am afraid that the establishment of a bad bank and everything that followed it was an idea that was being pursued, that we would never find out, what went wrong in those banks, and that the bad bank would cover up the operation that was in the bad banks. What can we do next? I believe that we must approach the evolutionary system of prosecution of such crime, not only in return; that we must introduce mechanisms to prevent such financial machinations; that we must, on the one hand, reward those who will act transparently; that we should approach the Scandinavian model of resolution, which means, not only with criminal sanctions, but with administrative sanctions, which means licensing, and that means that we should prevent those who have been in the control councils and other authorities who should ensure that they do not continue to occupy such or similar services, and that, on the other hand, we look again at the harm that has been done to people, that they are being reimbursed and that we are working transparently. So much for starters, and then if you need any answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor. Get Mr. Tomaž Gantar ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u66	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Dear guests, guests, colleagues and colleagues! Practice has proved something wrong with us. Instead of banks supporting citizens, craftsmen, economists, we have seen the opposite in the last five years. Citizens, craftsmen, economists support banks. Sometimes 100 million, sometimes 200 million, sometimes a billion or so. And then we're amazed at how Slovenia swallows all this with a little bit of smaller or a little bit bigger smoke. Then we listen many times, and today it has been somehow indicated that it is Europe's fault, that the European Central Bank – especially for the last period or their correspondence – is responsible for some time for one or another Janša's government, and people will feel that after this meeting today: Ah, Members have debated, they may have accepted something, but they are always guilty. When I listened to Mr Draganjo and Mr Jazbec like that, they said that things were being handled in a comprehensive manner, successfully, we accepted as we had to, and the Members doubted something, but they doubt something we said there were no doubts at all. Something like that. According to what we all signed, the governor was trying to say that there is no doubt about it, because in that sense it is type-tops. That is why I very much like the fact that all Members have signed the request for this meeting of the National Assembly. That he is not here, and I will allow myself to say, the unfaithful Tomaž one or the other, but here we are all ninety Members who doubt that everything in the banking system is type-topic, that probably, as I said before, practice shows that something with our banking system is wrong. This debate on banks over the last five years reminds me of a very similar issue that has been affecting the judiciary, where we have long closed our eyes, that all types-tops, the system works, those who are bad are always in prison, are good those who don't go to jail and so on, and then this ugly Europe tells us something is wrong with your justice. And I believe that Europe will say more recently that there is something wrong with our banking system as well. If we don't believe in the European Union, I really hope that we believe our citizens who are asking what they have out of these recapitalisations, when they want some credit, let this be a credit for the car, especially what the ordinary citizen of my age might want, that is, a simple house, and when he goes to ask for credit, they will, of course, measure you long and hard, how much you are able to pay back in any time. Most of my colleagues who decide to build a house ask themselves why they want credit in a bank. If you want a hundred thousand euros of credit, little depends on banks and little on the ability to pay, you add at least one third or half of it in the next twenty or thirty years. There are craftsmen and economists here. Last time I attended the meeting of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, where they awarded prizes. The government was President of the Government, and I think one or two ministers. Now, I apologize if I've missed another Member, but there weren't many of us, so I won't say I was alone. But then what were the debates among these successful economists? Give us lower taxes, give us lower red tape, let the banks support us, and leave us politically alone. Let the banks give us the money. Then we have smaller economists, including the environment from which I come, and I also meet with some who are slightly larger directors, so that I will not even tell the directors of state-owned enterprises, where whenever a debate is put on the bank or banking system, after the third or fourth sentence, there is also a curse in between. Then we know that this is probably not positive about our banking system. But apparently some want to show that it's all types-tops. I'm even sure that the other Janša government fell because of the banking system. It started talking about privatisation, it started talking about a bad bank, about a banking system, some of the interests that were not comfortable, and it happened what happened. Then came the new government, and this new government passed the Banking Act, called Zban-1L, and the SD Members voted in favour of this law. The Ambassadors of Desus voted in favour of this law. Members of Positive Slovenia, some 10 or 12% of those Members are now in another party, voted in favour of the law. And we know what we did with that marriage, the problem of the subordinates. One thing that will probably not only cost us dearly is going to hurt our head. Maybe a little more on that. When we talk about the banking system, we're talking about the current banking system. Sorry, I had to go out for an hour, but there was no talk of the role of governor, former governor, management of banks and supervisory boards of bank management. How many ex-bankers are in criminal proceedings? How many are convicted and the politics is silent? I hope that from now on, we will be as cooperative in this area as we are today. Above all, we will not only speak in the future, but also, if necessary, through legislative moments. And everyone else. That is why I will return here to the words of Mrs Kotnik Poropat, what we have done and how the problems in the field of subordinates are. Here I have a third vote on the law and the veto vote on the law. And Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Popot voted in favour of this law. Today, he talks about how subordinates are a problem. But some, I must say, have voted against the law at the time. And I have problems today perhaps to discuss with at this point, and Mrs Kotnik Poropat a year ago, people will forget a little bit about it, magnetograms will disappear as soon as possible, and now we have a problem. No, no, no. At that time, we had it when we adopted, respected, and respected marriages. There are quite a few Members from that mandate still in the National Assembly. Once one came into my office with this problem, I had the same list and I said, "Get to it, get to it, get to it." I think there were 55 for once and 54 for once. And I said, Go to these Members and ask them why they pressed the key for, even though some of them were warned to press the key against. In short, the Constitutional Court will decide sooner than before. I will not say how it will be decided, but if it is decided as they say it will be, 600 million will be a severe headache for the Slovenian Government and for the Slovenian banking system. Then maybe something about stress tests. There is a lot of talk about methodology, one methodology, another methodology, which is true, which is from the bottom up, from the top down, and so on. The difference is a billion and a half. The difference is for one TEC. Therefore, I really hope that those of you who signed the investigator for TES 6 will also sign the investigation initiative on the banking system. In just one stress test, there was a difference of one and a half billion. Tssst. Based on this, there were two audit houses, Roland Berger and Deloitte, only within the NLB, the difference was 1.1 billion. And today I really hope that we can get an answer, after a date or hours – because we know what it was like in the media, whether it was December 18, 19 or 23, when something was signed, who signed something – that we will know what was signed before, because it also has a basis for having subordinates. Not just a billion and 100 differences in NLB and a billion and a half in the banking system. Another 600 million euros hanging in the Constitutional Court. 1.5 billion plus this difference plus 600 million, we have almost 2 TEŠ or one other block of nuclear power in Krk, if you want or want, the one we see once in the future. Today, we listen to 90 unfaithful Tomasz in the National Assembly, and the banking system is type-top. In short, there are many questions that the governor has tried to answer, but we know what it is like to answer them. Even when New Credit Bank Maribor was recapitalised when they had to, I think Post Offices Slovenia and Eles Gen Energy gave the bad 50 million when overnight from AUKN came befel to give. If we sold the New Maribor Credit Bank for 1 euro at the time, we'd save it. But now we've recapitalised it and we're worried about whether we're going to sell it for 300 million or 200 million, or whether it's still better that we sell it for 1 euro and maybe give another old sin to someone else to manage or rehabilitate it, than maybe at the end of 2015 we'll say we're going to put another 200 million into recapitalisation because it's our bank. With this bank of ours, I have nothing to do with it. He doesn't have an ordinary citizen to help himself. He doesn't have a craftsman to help himself. It is obviously in the interest of some to have these 200 million circulating within the banking system. Before that, my colleague Susanna said well that the bank's problem was state-owned. But not now to talk about whether a foreigner will buy or a domestic, the problem is state property, which some exploit and defend very strongly in the interests of national interest. A common citizen, a common craftsman, and a common economist of this national interest has absolutely nothing but some dedicated elite of bankers and possessed tycoons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Gantar has the floor to prepare Mr Marko Ferluga.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Governor, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I guess I'm an extra part of the unbeliever Tomaze. That's just the way it is. Basically, I did not agree with conspiracy theory, and it would be difficult for someone to convince me that there are coincidences when we talk about politics, but also, of course, when we talk about capital, especially capital at a level that we are also talking about this time. In the face of such open questions, which have already been discussed in a number of ways, I still have further doubts about the fact that there are no relatively simple, clear and convincing answers to them. I also have additional doubts about the fact that Mr State Secretary has mentioned that things need to be looked at and understood in the context of the time in which they were discussed. I understand this in a way that this was the time when Slovenia, which was more sensitive than today, of course very quickly agreed to the conditions, which at any given time might not have been necessary to be very generous in agreeing to any dictatorship that came at any request that appeared. However, today we are very critical of Greece, which is also struggling in difficult situations to win and have some better starting points. But let me go back to these questions. One question that is somehow being thrown away all the time is, nevertheless, the responsibility for the creation of a bank hole. Mass credit was mentioned and I still don't see the main ones responsible here, that was a lot of talk. And I don't mean any witch hunt with that. Of course, there may also be a risk for each banker, a business decision that can also be missed at a given time, which turns out to be a later one. But this was about a number of decisions that were, at least the ones I know, really gone. If I think that I, as a private person without all the security guards with difficulty, get, for example, 5,000 Euros of credit, but that millions have gone to guarantees that are not worth, of course, a tenth of what was worth the credit, of course, there are questions that it is probably not just a mistake, but that there is also a thing behind which the police or someone else should investigate. Here we simply run into a dead end and do not take a step forward. I think as a society, we would be obliged to do this in front of people, given that we were all in charge of a lot of money. The next thing that runs away is the issue of the liquidation value of the bank's assets. According to many, this value has been assessed extremely low. The independent audit house itself warned that it was working outside the standards. So it's probably a passing by, where you drive past and over your thumb, that it's only worth so much, and just by chance the property is always undervalued, not overvalued. In this way, there was a need for increased recapitalisation, and in this way, the door was finally opened to erase these shares. Here's the question. On the one hand, we needed significantly more money to recapitalise, we needed loans that we paid substantially more, even at a given time. This, of course, has further consequences in the long run, and we can look at who, after all, can ultimately benefit from everything that has happened. I heard yesterday about a potential buyer of NKBM. A bank that may have been properly recapitalized, maybe more than some people think, I don't know, I don't judge, I don't know enough, but I do. The buyer is supposed to be a fund that was said to be primarily engaged in buying companies in difficulties that the restructuring and, of course, more expensive to sell. Of course, these banks wouldn't go shopping. If they buy it, if the price is right, it is worth it at a low price and then, of course, sell it. What's really going to happen, I'm not going to speculate, we're just going to see. Time will bring it. However, another consequence of the lack of capital in banks and the assessment of these companies is, of course, all that was transferred to a bad bank, to the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. Which means that companies, those that have been transferred, will continue to sell at a low price or, if it is slightly higher than those identified there, it will already be an extraordinary success for the Bank's Claims Management Company. Until we sell everything in order and then it is likely that the mission to be carried out in Slovenia will also be slowly completed. I'm scared or I just don't expect any more answers to questions. Here we can hide behind the secrecy of banking data and many other things. However, the fact is that we will probably remain bitterly concerned about all of us and many citizens, that, despite all of this, this process has been carried out in an imprudent way and also in the detriment of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, regardless of the time in which it was done, but with all the secrets that we are going on about it, I think there is almost no other conclusion at the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Marko Ferruga has the floor. Get ready, Andrey Chuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye, everybody! First, the question of what is the basic task of Banka Slovenije must be resolved. It is a naked fact that Banka Slovenije is the regulator of banking. If we look at the report of Banka Slovenije, which was also sent to all Members of Parliament, we see from it that Banka Slovenije has been sending signals to the banking system and banks since 2007 that they must act to put in place measures. I think by 2014 there were 34 and 35 measures, if I am not mistaken, depending on what is written. Clearly, we are all generals in the present situation after the battle, we all know what we should have done before, and the fact is that no one had a glass bullet to see what would happen to the economy and everything that was happening in the world itself. It was a decision to make. Certain decisions were clearly good, as they were probably not, but those matters, which the Bank of Slovenia somehow triggered and signalled to banks, should be adequate, at least in the context and the time state in which it was. When we talk about whether recovery could be cheaper, better, faster, it is a matter of debate. The facts are that it was necessary to deal with this and to resolve the banking system so that the economy could function. Who should have done it, when should we have done it, whether it was the government, whether it was the Ministry of Finance, whether it was the banks themselves, are the questions, but it is clear that the responsibility to which the Bank of Slovenia is responsible and where the legal basis operates. Don't make any mistake. It is clear that in the SMC we support and agree with this debate today and certainly want to find some protectors or some variants so that this will not happen again in the future. But in all these speeches, we may forget that no law, no regulation will help us in how the banks operate, that is, in the very responsible management of the banks. This has already been mentioned by my colleagues before me, and if I relate to this, we will avoid talking about the responsibility of the management of banks and of the supervisory boards. Let's make this a criminal act, make it material. I think the heart of the problem is in the bad leadership of banks and control councils. Why am I saying this? The Bank of Slovenia report itself stated that banks in the administration of the country are very poorly managed. Here is the most ironic fact that we actually have on the other side of the bank, whose owners are foreigners, but it is even more funny that there is also a large majority of Slovenian employees working well, while banks owned by the country are very poorly run. The debate on this privatisation may begin again, whether it makes sense or not, but all the facts also shown by the Bank of Slovenia report show that unfortunately all of these banks, which were owned by the majority state, have been very poorly managed. There are probably still a lot of things to discuss and find, and perhaps all of us in the National Assembly are interested in making this matter clear once and for all, as far as the responsibility of all these banks is concerned. However, if the State aid provided for by the law has already been granted, it clearly follows that the owner must lead the recapitalisation under the law. Who were the owners of the state banks is already clearly stated, it is said that the state itself. In fact, it must be said that it is the country which should be responsible for the management and management of these matters. Here I would like to say that we Slovenians are very interesting in that we just like to criticise and we don't want things to change, but I think we have a lot of opportunity at this stage to start thinking that the next steps that are going to be taken now are those that will prevent any of these wrong uses that have been done with these banks. Let me get this straight. As far as SMC is concerned, I believe that Banka Slovenije has sufficient reputation and that it enjoys all our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Chus has the floor to prepare Mrs Urska Ban. Here you go, Mr. Chush.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Where do we start when we talk about the Slovenian banking system? Based on the varied activities and actions that have taken place in the Slovenian banking system over the past few years, there are probably words that, say, are immediately thought of by the average person who monitors the media and developments in politics, crime, mafia, gang, thieves, bandits, indebtedness. And unfortunately, these are some of the contemporaries that, of course, everyone thinks about when they talk about our banking system. I am not exactly the biggest financial expert myself, but in view of this, forgive perhaps a slightly harsher expression, what kind of crap has been happening in the banking system in recent years, it seems to me that it is the responsibility of each of us to have little knowledge of the situation in the Slovenian banking system, about history and how to take an active approach to solving this problem. That is why, of course, I also absolutely support any debate on the subject of the Slovenian banking system, but, of course, some concrete solutions. Finally, we must agree that even if we talk a lot and debate in the National Assembly, there will be no results unless we make a clear commitment that people will respond to the return of money and that those who commit and support it will go to jail. I think then our purpose will be realized. That is why, of course, I also support the efforts of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, which has taken the initiative to set up an investigative commission on the subject of our banking system. When we talk today about the rehabilitation of our banking system, we cannot avoid discussing the indebtedness of the Republic of Slovenia. Today, there have been many debates that have gone in the direction of over-indebted ourselves not to be in charge of any reforms or concrete measures, but, above all, to maintain the current status of some hopeless policy, without the planned necessary reforms, and the biggest failure of such policies is, in my opinion, mainly the young generation. At the time of the government of Alenka Bratušek was one of the main political goals or success in reducing the cost of debt. But the cost of borrowing or interest rates did not fall at the expense of the government’s efficiency, but mainly to improve the situation in the economy, not in Slovenia, but in Europe. Europe has started to recover and, of course, the banks have also been more favoured. Nevertheless, at the time of Alenka Bratusek, we owed interest at the level of Botswana and Chile. If this is what we had in mind for success, then it clearly shows where our policy came from. Certainly not where we fought when we conquered. I also share the conviction of many MEPs and members of the National Assembly that the rehabilitation of the banking system in Slovenia has been carried out according to overly strict estimates, which did not have real foundations, and therefore public debt is now greater than it should be. We can rightly ask ourselves why we overcapitalized or invested money in banks at some stage. I hope it's not for the reserves or for the indiscretions of the future. I am also sure that we have invested too much money in banks because of the overly high capital adequacy of Slovenian banks compared to other banks in the European Union. We haven't fixed the bank in Slovenia for the first time. For the first time, between 1993 and 1997, the purpose of the bank’s rehabilitation was also to adopt a decision or commitment to privatise the banking system by 2001. Unfortunately, we have done nothing in this area. The political elite, strongly involved in all social life times, has kept it and, of course, there are about 5 or 10 people, I will not name them, why they should be called, who would continue to rob the Slovenian people and laugh in our face. And if we decide again today to privatise the banking system, we do not need to have ideology or different views because they say that history is the best teacher. It's only a matter of time before these rabbles happen again. My colleague Lisec had previously pointed out that one member of the coalition had earlier been humbling herself about what had happened to the subordinates, and before that one year and a half ago she had supported the law that made it possible. Unfortunately, politics in Slovenia is often such, extremely shortsighted. People will forget what we're talking about here or how we vote, right? The second wave of the rehabilitation of the Slovenian banking system cost us €5 billion, and it is very likely that we will have to add at least €600 million to it, when several Members who are still sitting in the National Assembly today supported the current banking law and robbed thousands of Slovenes and Slovenes overnight. It is a political responsibility, everyone has voted consciously and everyone has been taught what to talk about. The Council of State also voted veto, there were no concerns, everything is fine, let's vote in favour. Finally, we will see that one official did not know or could not properly translate English into Slovenian. That's, I don't know, I'd rather be quiet, you won't have to take me out. The share of state ownership in Slovenian banks is, in my opinion, the structural problem of Slovenia and will have to be solved. If everything was going as it should be, and everyone would stick to some of the conclusions that all parties support at the declaration level in Slovenia and in the National Assembly, the so-called mafia would no longer be able to rob us for an additional EUR 5 billion after 2001. I also agree that in these five billion it is not just crime, there are also cases where entrepreneurs have gotten into trouble and so on, but probably in these five billion there is a lot of money that has been stolen or some have put in their pocket. Today, when we talk about what we could do with five billion euros, I remember what the discussions were like for the budget rebalancing. I think we could build a third axle without a problem. We don't need to talk about where the emergency center is, where we're gonna stop emergency medical care. The second track could be today, but not because five to ten people have kidnapped not only the bank, but also part of a policy that advocates it or just gets to know it, but does nothing. After the rehabilitation of the banks in 2014, we have long and wide heard that we have one of the healthiest banks in the European Union. And look at him, a fraction of what happened on stress tests. Our banks, NLB and NKBM are down. Not everything is as good as some of them were saying at the time. I am pleased that this awareness is growing or that everyone else is aware of it. The five billion-dollar bank hole probably didn't make it overnight. Some people have probably known about this for more than a while, so it is reasonable and reasonable to suspect that the competent authorities have not done this because they should, namely, send people to sit, ask people to return the money. But no, there's no problem. I am pleased, however, at the unity of today's meeting, when all the parliamentary groups joined and signed for the convening of an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Since no one has ever been responsible for these mafia acts and activities, it seems to me that there are also many figs in his pocket. I'm afraid I can't get rid of it. Finally, there was a lot of talk about privatisation. Privatisation is necessary because, in my personal opinion, politics has nothing to do with the economy, a school of twenty-five years or a history well shows that politics has not been the most successful in the economy or that we have always paid for the mistakes of economists or politicians. That is why I am pushing for an early exit from the economy. It is time to step into the 21st century. The last time we listened to the family code was to enter the 21st century. I'm for this, let's go to the 21st century, get the state out of the economy. Let us leave the society of countries such as Syria, Ethiopia, Costa Rica, Sri Lanka and so on. I think we need to focus on the path of development, including privatisation. As for the sale of the New KBM, I also remember the time when people stood in line to purchase shares of this bank, when they jumped from 27 euros to 44 at the same time and ended up liquidating these shares or this securities because it was worthless. It was another stretch, another theft that no one was responsible for. These practices are repeated from year to year. Last time a fellow on Ptuj said to me: "Look, Andrei, you're in the National Assembly, talking about privatisation, tell them that for me we can sell New KBM for one batch and one beer." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u73	Thank you very much. He asked the Mag for a word. Matthew Tonin, proposer's representative.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u74	Anyone who does is also wrong. Most likely no one imagines that he is infallible, and just as we can be misleading, the Bank of Slovenia can be misleading. I would like to ask the Governor if, at the end of the day, when he will answer the questions he has said more broadly, he can also comment on what the mechanisms for managing possible errors have been in fact in all this process of resolution of the banking system. What were the management mechanisms, I'll say, with errors in valuations of assets and bank capital? The most famous example is certainly the case of Letrica, and there are other things that could be found. Since people are monitoring, of course, some people have turned to me during this time by e-mail, which I have published on the website of the National Assembly. Such meetings are also an opportunity for people through us to ask certain questions to the governor himself, because otherwise they cannot access him. I would ask the Governor further if he could comment a little on the presentation of these conflicting facts that were sent to us today at the All-Slovenian Association of Small Shareholders. If you don't have this letter, I can hand it over to you. Here in the association they wrote in ten points certain things that would require certain answers to clarify all things. The next question that has been referred is also if the Governor can tell or explain why even today in the AIPES it does not show that Factor Bank and Probank are in liquidation, but today's AJPES shows that these are functioning banks. It is probably a legal dilemma or a legal issue, and this too would be worth explaining.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mrs Urska Ban has the floor to prepare the mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I'm going to try to give you some of my views on today's subject. I will probably repeat myself in some part, given that we have been discussing this matter all day. During the last month or two, the general opinion or doubts arose in the Bank of Slovenia, namely that Banka Slovenije hides the methodology for calculating the bank hole in the process of a comprehensive review of Slovenian banks in 2013, to falsify documents to manipulate data, and a variety of such and similar readings were organized by different experts in such or different combinations. To put it simplisticly, we have heard several times this month that the calculation of the bank hole has been adjusted so long that it has been charged just enough to delete subordinate bonds, and we all know that it is not that easy. Let us not forget that various experts also estimated bank recovery costs to €14 million in 2013. Nevertheless, I think so, and in the SMC we also supported this fact that we are also having this broad debate today at the parliamentary session. The initiative put forward by Members to present the methodology in detail by Banka Slovenije and to disclose the implementation of a careful review of banks. In 2014, we discussed this on at least two parliamentary committees, both on the Committee on Finance and on the Commission on Public Finance Supervision, where I also participated. Here the discussion touched on all the professional elements, foundations and methodology, as the capital mismatch of banks was found in the processes that took place in Slovenia, on the one hand, as well as in the process of granting state aid to the European Commission. I can make my own grade here. As I understood all the explanations and answers given both by the Government and the Bank of Slovenia that the measures have been implemented in a comprehensive manner and in accordance with the legal basis, in particular in the sense that what we have been talking about over the past month would not be repeated again. At the aforementioned committees and also at the meeting of the National Assembly, which has already confirmed the recommendations of the connection to the identification of the bank hole, we have instructed Members, by adopting the decision of the Bank of Slovenia, to report all the doubts mentioned above to us in detail and to provide clarifications. The Bank of Slovenia has been explaining this very correctly for a month. It has prepared and has already provided us with a very comprehensive report, and today it answers all our questions. Nevertheless, I feel that on one side of Banka Slovenije we constantly insist that she explain all the evidence on her own account, whatever she then explains to us, whether we don't believe it or not, we don't want to believe it or anything else. We listen to the evidence that once the Bank of Slovenia has prepared too much material and is deliberately blurring the situation, it says and publishes nothing again. It is difficult for me to understand what else Banka Slovenije should do in order to complete this cycle, or who is the last point that will give the final answers and we will all eventually be able to believe it. In this light, I think it makes sense for the Government to draw up legislative bases for the implementation of independent controls on the implementation of major state strategic and infrastructure projects, including, for sure, all measures with the so-called resolution of the banking system. This law will provide a sufficiently high-quality basis so that an independent investigation can be carried out in this part and all elements related to possible suspected irregularities, non-economic or other risks related to bank recovery alone can be assessed. This marriage is due to come to Parliament within one month. Just a few more thoughts from me. On Banka Slovenije's website we can find a detailed report on the comprehensive review of Slovenia's banking assets 2013. This report shall contain explanations of the results and description of the methodology and of all the procedures used. The Bank of Slovenia also explained this to us in the material we received on the basis of a decision adopted in the National Assembly 30. 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Which is not public – and since it prescribes the law, probably never will – are the input data and individual results of a careful review of the bank asset. It is therefore individual data, including personal data, from loan maps. However, in aggregate form, these data have already been published in a detailed report, which I mentioned earlier. When reviewing the assets of banks, the measures prescribed by the European Commission were applied everywhere. For Slovenia, these measures represented a very large share of bad loans in banks. This has a negative impact on the capital of banks, which also affects the valuation of insurance. It will trigger more use of valuations at liquidation values which are lower than they would have been if these were to be used for good loans. But like I said, this methodology applies to everything equally. The negative impact of a large proportion of bad loans is then reflected in the stress testing process. The burden test should assess the sensitivity of the transfer of macroeconomic variables to the quality of loans and the value of insurance. This sensitivity is greater in countries that had a higher increase in bad loans, and this was also the case with Slovenia, because we did not take action to restructure the economy financially between 2009 and 2013. From 2009 to 2013, they could resolve the issue of their banks themselves, and then, in the process of eliminating excessive macroeconomic imbalances, the European Commission led it and here Slovenia lost the option of self-sufficient decision-making as well as equal negotiation. For today's debate, I also believe that the comprehensive review of 2014 carried out in a uniform methodology for all 13 banks has shown that NLB and NKBM are not overcapitalised. This means that any other valuation of assets in 2013 could not mean a smaller need for capital and subordinated bonds could not be exempted from haircuts. It is clear from the European Commission's proposal for a Bank Rescue Directive that we, or the whole euro area, should stop saving banks with tax money. This means that the burden of bank resolution must be borne first by owners, then by bond holders and ultimately by large depositors. State aid is prohibited and can only be used in exceptional circumstances. These provisions will, however, become fully applicable in 2018 and the principles of the Directive must be respected in the interim period. The removal of bonds is therefore a normal tool for bank resolution that protects taxpayers from the burden. Recommendation of the European Commission on the use of State aid with 1. 8. 2013 follow these principles and here this write-off of subordinated bonds is also mentioned as an instrument for sharing the burden of bank resolution. This communication, which has already been mentioned several times today, and which the European Commission uses when deciding on the admissibility of State aid, contains all these criteria. If Slovenia did not grant State aid, then we would not have to take this message into account. However, since Slovenia granted State aid, it had to take into account all the provisions of this Communication, as I have already said, from August 2013 and, inter alia, all its points, including those relating to subordinated capital instruments. Maybe there's just something positive for the end. What, though, did the recapitalisation of banks bring us? The resolution of the banking system in 2013 has contributed and helped the depositors themselves in banks that have saved in these banks, and without these measures all their deposits would be compromised. Past losses have been covered, confidence in the banking system has been established as a whole and the normal operation of banks has been enabled to eliminate all other negative effects associated with the slow response of economic policy makers to the crisis situation. The weighted national bond interest rate fell from 4.58 % before the measures were implemented in 2014 to 2.67 % and continued to fall and has already reached record low levels. It is possible or detected to return stability to the Slovenian banking system. In 2014, deposits in banks began to rise again and this trend continues this year. As a result of the fall in interest rates on government bonds, interest rates on loans to the economy and households also fall. Company access to bank loans has been facilitated, and this has also somehow created a condition for economic growth. So the positive effects of this recapitalisation are clear and visible today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich, let Mr. Jan Mahnic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. All in attendance have a very nice greeting! I will begin by asking what happened before 2013 in Banka Slovenije, an institution whose entrance is decorated by the statues of Atlas. Who are they? For the sake of the builders, the redesigned image of the ancient Greek divine Atlas as a sign of virtue. Did the enormous burden on the shoulders of citizens and citizens fall because Slovenia simply lost its battle with more modern, more open, more competitive, more organised and more competitive economies and therefore had to put an even greater burden on bank recovery after defeat? Perhaps we have taken on the burden of naivety, ignorance, perhaps methodology, perhaps because someone in exchange for well-paid services has followed instructions from the European Financial Summit. I sincerely hope that in the near future we will receive as many satisfying answers as possible. If I return to the causes of the situation with specific cases. Prohibition of the granting of loans for the purchase of own shares, i.e. assists in recapitalisations that would not have been successful if there had been no prohibition of conduct. The Probank case, where this bank is expected to offer several investors participating in the recapitalisation of the bank a loan to buy shares while at the same time promising them that the bank will buy these shares at such a price so that there will be no difficulty in repaying the loan. In this way, the bank ensured its apparent capital adequacy. The bank landed in liquidation today. In December 2013, the country invested 176 million euros in money, 160 million and 16 million euros in bonds in the Republic of Slovenia. The second is the story of the NLB. Not only did the bank of the subordinated bond sell at the windows, including to complete financial non-perceptors who were not aware of the risk, the bank also demonstrated that employees had convinced that they would trade their deposits for subordinated bonds. Interestingly, the bank has convinced people that deposits for which the bank has paid them less have been traded for subordinated bonds for which the bank has paid more. To put it bluntly, we should be sounding all the alarms as to how much the bank needs capital. And that was in 2010. Slovenian banks have had difficulties with capital since 2008. First, friendly companies had to be persuaded to buy shares and then lend them a loan. Then it was necessary to make subordinated bonds, not because there were problems with capital, but by explaining that it was necessary to become a modern bank. This also means modern innovative ways of ensuring capital adequacy and therefore subordinated bonds. CoCo bonds were to be issued in 2012. Of course, the bonds have converted into capital. The well - known analysts then warned: If we pour pure wine, it is sand in our eyes. The NLB has serious problems that need to be addressed seriously, but not with some hybrid instruments to patch a hole in a hole from year to year. The following comment was very important: CoCo bonds are an extremely problematic instrument, its only advantage being recognised by the European regulator. In the short term, it saves NLB and the continuation is not promising. And where was she all this time with her Bank of Slovenia activities as a roof regulator? This was written by the media, economists and analysts, but when individual journalists addressed the question to the Bank of Slovenia and demanded answers regarding warnings about the illegal practices of banks, including the financing of their own recapitalisations and other systemic risks, it was polite to say that the same regulator was moving in the direction of how difficult it was to detect this, but to find out. In 2012, it was even noted that it was not a systemic practice and that virtually no irregularities were detected. A few words on the basic indicators for the Slovenian banking system in the last eight years. Before that, however, important events took place. Firstly, in 2006, the introduction of international accounting standards. In 2007 take over the euro and implement the principle of fair market value. In 2008, Lehmans Brothers Bank failed. Now to the point. Two important indicators related to that period and also to the years following that. The first is the increase in lending as a percentage. In 2006, 28% of growth, in 2007 41%, in 2008 19% and in 2009 was a significant drop to 0.1 and then from year to year, in 2013 the decline was negative 21%. Another category, which has already been mentioned several times in some respects. Percentage of bad loans. In 2006, 2.8% share of bad loans in the Slovenian banking system. In 2007 3.1%; in 2008 2.9%; in 2009 almost 100% increase, 4.8%; and in 2010 almost 100%, 8%. This percentage increased significantly and reached almost a dizzying 30% in 2013. And here is the immediate question of whether it was not necessary to act against managers or managers in banks. Next question. Did the Bank of Slovenia even have a legal basis as a regulator of the banking system to act substantially before then? If we look at the current Banking Act, this is specifically mentioned in Articles 222 and 217. Only in graves, article 222 speaks of the purpose and scope of control of banks. Just for a little while. "Bank of Slovenia exercises control over the bank in order to verify whether the bank operates in accordance with the rules on risk management and other rules" and so on. More significant and interesting to us is the 217th Article, which discusses the competence of the Bank of Slovenia to control banks. I will touch the fourth paragraph, which says: "To achieve the purpose of control of the bank, the Bank of Slovenia is responsible and also responsible for the supervision of the members of the bank's administration to the extent set out in Articles 68 and 70 of this Act", and then, secondly and so forth, I would not speak in detail, but still touch myself. Article 68, or 70, of this Law. Why am I exposing this? In particular, because the second paragraph of Article 68 makes it very clear: "Breaking the obligation referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article" which relates to the functioning of the administration "has a characteristic of a worse infringement" and, firstly, "if this breach endangers the liquidity or capital adequacy of the bank". I think any of the words below are superfluous. If I continued, I would touch another control segment, and these are the auditors. As is known, we have internal auditors within the banks, who are generally directly responsible to the administration and the supervisory boards. They have clearly defined objectives, responsibilities, integration into the most vital processes of the banking system, reporting obligation, direct access to all managers and management. What have they been doing in state-owned banks all these years to prevent a situation that they knew was off-limits? In addition to internal auditors, we have and have in the past had external auditors who have been and are still carrying out audit annual reports as external, independent auditors to the annual business outcome report. This also raises the question of what is the responsibility of auditors to create a bank hole that resulted in the recapitalisation of banks. Their principled views, in my opinion, do not have a specific valid excuse because they refer mainly to two, in their opinion, separate things. Firstly, when auditing financial statements, the auditor shall only verify that the balance sheet data are true and fair and shall not affect the choice of accounting policy and so on. Second, in the evaluation system, they say that there are problems because there may be differences between assessments. Weaknesses are a time problem. They are similar for businesses, because it depends on how much time they have to pay their debts. What can we say? First of all, I will not comment on their tariffs, let alone their responsibilities. However, the question arises why there is a Slovenian Institute for Auditing and in particular the Agency for Public Auditing. Whatever we're doing, they're all stuck on taxpayers. And in the recent statement made by the Chief Prosecutor on the working body of the Committee on the Financial and Monetary System that, if this happens, the first judgement will not come within ten years, we can no longer be convinced of the Bank of Slovenia's good functioning in the past as the main and independent regulator of the banking system in the Republic of Slovenia. I want all such activities related to the previous operation of the Bank of Slovenia to be objectively reported to the representatives of the European Central Bank, because we have members of certain rights and obligations and thus do not diminish the independence of this institution in any way. I can say, however, that in the first place, the Governor must be responsible for the reputation of the Bank of Slovenia with his team and his employees. To conclude, the key question that is repeated over and over again is this: Why has the Bank of Slovenia failed to observe or file procedures against managers due to suspicion of abuse of positions and similar definitions of other crime signs? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u79	The drafter of mags has the floor. Matthew Tonin, prepare Jean Mahnič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u80	The speaker reminded me of the famous Coco bonds, if you remember them. These Coco bonds were then transformed into capital after a while. In a way, it was about recapitalising banks with state money. At that time, if I recall, we had no or no request or request for State aid. Representatives of the Bank of Slovenia would ask what the representatives of the ECB and the European Commission had in mind when they said in early 2009 that non-conventional measures were also allowed to be taken in the resolution of banks. What are these unconventional measures?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u81	Mr. Jean Mahnič has the floor. Let's get Mr. Tillen Christmas ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr Secretary and of course Governor of Banka Slovenije! When I listen to this debate in which we are Members and Members, given that we have all given our signatures, but today at least at some point in time in unity, the Slovenian bank hole or the whole event around the Slovenian banking system can be narrowed to three points. Firstly, no one is responsible for anything in Slovenia. Secondly, Slovenian justice does not work. Thirdly, state-owned companies are the cancer of the wound of Slovenia. Let me explain. Nobody in Slovenia is responsible for anything, I don't think I have to explain. When we call or request an emergency meeting, we are asked what we are now fighting with some windmills in the wind, what we are looking for questions that we will not get any answers to. But we have a bank hole, the taxpayers' money went for it, and someone should be responsible for it. In short, no one in Slovenia is responsible for anything. Second point. Slovenian justice doesn't work. You may recall that the then President of the Government, Janez Janša, when he received the Bank of Slovenia report on non-repayable loans, this report also included anonymous companies with just one employee receiving millions of loans on the basis of this report. What happened? Nothing. Has anyone been locked up? They're not. Or they are. He's been locked up. The Prime Minister of the Government who filed this case was then closed in one year. The third point, state-owned companies are the cancer of the Slovenian company. I hope that the majority opinion here is such, even though I know some are opposed, but I hope to say that if we did not have state-owned companies, if we did not have the New Ljubljana Bank and the New Maribor State-owned Credit Bank, we would not be talking about these things today in the same way as we did or whether we would be talking about such things. Since each private owner looks twice at it before giving it somewhere, but when it was a state bank, he calls one another, he calls another, we give it 10 million for the Stožice, we give it a couple 100 million for Mercury and so on. Without any insurance, good-looking eyes, and I don't know what else. If we were private, it wouldn't have happened. I hear that instead of recapitalising the banks, let's recapitalize the people. And we've recapitalized people, too. In particular, in the last ten years, we have recapitalised some professors with a billion euros. We've recapitalized the people. Not only is it obvious that this recapitalisation is a problem, but it is also a problem when money is distributed slightly on average, to 350 000, to 600 000 euros. It is not just banks, because this is the way Slovenia works. Because there's no responsibility, because no one's responsible for anything. The tycoons, the so-called tycoons that are in prison, can count, I don't know, on the fingers of two hands, with 5 billion or more missing. But that's obviously normal for us, because no one's responsible for anything. But if anyone asks or asks, God forbid, he's still making a request for an extraordinary session, but he's so paranoid that he's looking for something to do with history and what I know. On the basis of this situation in the state banks, of course, in just one year under the government of Alenka Bratušek, we owed 8.6 billion euros. It's not a problem that we're in debt. The problem is why we're in debt. Are we up for any investments? Are we up for the economy? No, we didn't. This is what we have been tasked with covering stranded investments and robberies in Slovenian state banks, where, I have no problem, we can look at who is on this list, especially the representatives of one political option obviously had a financial self-service. I still don't understand why we didn't prefer to take money from the European stabilisation mechanism at a rate of about 1%, and the cheaper money would be, indeed, and this was a major problem to carry out root reforms, but even on the basis of these reforms today Slovenia would not be in the state it is in. In addition, another robbery in the Slovenian state banks took place in connection with them, which was legalized by the vote of the former coalition from the previous term, the one from the other government, namely, the cancellation of investments to more than 100,000 small shareholders and subordinate creditors amounting to EUR 500 to 600 million, is said. That's about as much as they say about some numbers as they're supposed to be erased. This too will have to be counted against how much we have put in banks, because I am, after all, convinced that the epilogue will be such that it will condemn the theft and that it will have to be returned to these people, which is the only right thing to do. Here I also have one question, I think it was already exposed, but there was no answer yet, the Society of Small Shareholders of Slovenia gave a press release, the address subordinate and fraud? in the Tarč programme with Boštjan Anžin, when it came to some agreements on these small shareholders and then the vice-governor of Banka Slovenije denied that the results of the burden tests were adjusted so that they could delete subordinate bonds. The former Secretary-General of the Ministry of Finance, Mitja Mavko, initially said that it was not possible to conclude from a publicly published letter with the official of the European Commission, Franc Dupont, that he had been promised anything when one of the dischargeees then said that it was clear from the letter that Dupont thanked him that they had included the deletion of the hybrid bonds in the plan. So obviously something was going on in the background, but again, in Slovenian or double terms, if we have a case where the evidence is official, no authority will deal with it, no one will do it, we will act like it isn't. But when there's only one J in a movie somewhere, and we all know who it is, and the hopa-cup closes the former prime minister, because that's where the letter J is, and that's probably him. The second question that I have, or which is the main issue, and which is also mentioned in the request for a meeting, is how stressful tightness or scenarios arose. I will never forget when Professor Mojmir Dark told us in the case of International Finance, when he taught us, about these stress tests and these credit rating agencies: "We pay for this matter and it was usually considered that you order what you pay, then they make that opinion." If I caricature, these credit rating agencies work roughly like, say, Professor Dr. Rajko Pirnat. You tell him what kind of opinion I want, pay him, and then you get that opinion. How did these stress tests come about? Contrary to GDP and criteria, what is the macroeconomic situation today. We had two scenarios, basic and unpleasant. For 2013, GDP growth was plus 1%. The baseline scenario predicted a minus 2.7% and an unpleasant minus 3.1%. How can someone make so many mistakes? I'm sure the students at the Faculty of Mathematics and Physics wouldn't miss that much, but there's obviously something in the background. Apparently, it was of some interest that we then took 5 billion instead of 4. As previously said, for about one TER 6. For 2014 it is the same when we have 2.5 and 2.6% growth according to data. Again after these tests envisaged under an unpleasant scenario minus 3,8 %, under the baseline scenario minus 1,5 %. I don't know, I didn't study mathematics, but I'm not clear on such important things. It is well written here that the tests have found that the deficit is expected to be by 2015 under the baseline scenario after the top-down approach of 2.7 billion and 4 billion after the bottom-up approach. Under an unpleasant scenario of 3.2 and 4.7. We've had our differences here, but it's only been decided for what it's decided. It's the last one. I know these answers here, and we can talk for how long, we won't get them. The investigations are coming from all sides, but what I would expect is, at least, that the work initiated by the previous investigative commission is continuing or that I may also start a new investigative commission again. But obviously we're saying something again. We're doing something. THE C.E. 6 would be investigated, since it is likely to know which direction this investigation will go and who will be blamed again, but not here. However, when there are different political frameworks, the signatures for this investigative commission would not somehow be given. I call on you, those of you who are full of words, how to start fighting corruption in Slovenia, how to clear up everything back in order to sign these, to set up an investigative commission and to find out what was going on. If not, at least according to the first point that I mentioned at the outset, so that no one is responsible for anything in Slovenia, the donkeys will prove that this is not the case and that they are responsible, I do not care who it is, we call to account, and that the end of the ages is also some one that really deserves to be there, but is probably sitting at home on the couch today, watching this and laughing at us all.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u83	Mr. Tillen Christmas has the floor. Get Mr. Uroš Prikl ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. First of all, I would start with independence and these calls, which have been in recent times, so that Banka Slovenije should be significantly more regulated, overseeing, of course, that the National Assembly and Government should significantly increase them. I have some problems with this approach, especially because if we look at how a central bank works and if it wants to function well, it has to have a very high degree of independence. I certainly wouldn't want it to be like it was in Yugoslavia, that when the money ran out for miners, an order was sent, one dinar car was printed and sent to the miners. The next day, we had so much higher inflation to the detriment of everyone. The second issue is also somehow one of control, which must be over all, even the link, because we eventually had the first bank rehabilitation also due to a little problematic ownership of banks or the business between companies and banks, which were in fact related to each other so that the other loaned. These things weren't unique in our system. In the end, the Bank of The Co-op Bank, which was a major bank and had problems in the UK, had recently collapsed. I think that some independence is the key to setting some basic conditions at all, so that one banking system can function normally, so that I would rather go to some debate in the sense that this independence should somehow be strengthened, especially in the sense that maybe the ATVP and the AZN can be combined under the same roof, so that it would be within the Bank of Slovenia, that all experts would be in one place, that knowledge would be accumulated and that this way also the independence and power of such an institution would be accumulated. We do have some problems, but this is mainly about owners, the real state and then the government, with respect for these regulators. If the central bank tells you repeatedly that you have to solve a problem, that such loans should not be granted, and that banks, if they are already in such difficulties, should eventually recapitalise, and you are persistently ignoring it or recapitalising it in some such little special way, Coco Style, but it does not drive far. There is certainly no way to attribute guilt to Banka Slovenije, but to the owner. So it's a question of whether it's an egg or a chicken. Who is the first person called to make sure that when something is pointed out, it actually eliminates these mistakes or shortcomings? I doubt that there would be any further argument here that Dr. Jazbec might have been given additional powers, walked around armed and threatened by those who should respect him in that some warnings at least take them into account in their work, but would certainly be by strengthening this regulator, perhaps some progress even a day. As far as strengthening independence is concerned, I also think that political attacks on such an institution as the Bank of Slovenia, especially with some flat-rate allegations, are not good. We can go into very specific statements if there are any that need to be very well-founded, but in no way can this go flat across everything because it harms both the Republic of Slovenia and the banking system and the Bank of Slovenia. If I move on to the active and passive side or if we're at the egg again, we're at the chicken. What happened before? Are we now discussing whether the recapitalisation was properly carried out? I'm interested in the original problem. Where did that money go or why certain loans were made, and who is behind them? That's what my notions need to explore, deal with, explore. The fact that we will investigate whether any procedures have been properly carried out, despite the fact that experts have done so, whatever we find there, in a particular case, could most likely have happened if there were indeed some irregularities in order for the Republic of Slovenia to return the EUR 600 million. It's in the country's favor or not, I don't know. Judge for yourself. This is where my interest goes, in particular, in the direction of which of these claims is actually left on banks, which was not going to a bad bank. In such a case, for example, it would be a reasonable overcapitalisation because certain data could still be hidden, but I doubt that in any case the Bank of Slovenia had any interest in pursuing this objective. I don't see any motive here. However, I would be happy if, given the information we have received, at least the ones given, there is also some written evidence of what has been said several times in this National Assembly. As far as this initiative is concerned for today's session. We got a lot of answers, we got a lot of paperwork. We've had a lot of meetings. On the Commission for Public Finance Supervision, on the Committee on Finance, then on some other committees, which are primarily responsible for internal affairs and so on, we have a meeting today in this National Assembly. I think that we have thus met those requirements which were envisaged at this meeting and that this story is thus concluded. But I hope this story isn't over, as far as our focus is concerned, to figure out where the money is, where the estimates are now something over a billion, which shouldn't go for loans, because they weren't loans, but they were ripping, they went [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u85	Mr Roberto Battelli has the floor to prepare himself for the mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This debate may be interesting, but I doubt that it will make any difference. We need reforms to ensure the traceability of the last euro coming from the public treasury as well as a steak. There is a lack of legal commitment by banks and other similar entities to return the money they have received adequately and there is also a lack of appropriate sanctions if this does not happen. If not, we will repeat this task indefinitely. There is a lack of legal system standards to prevent what has happened and may still be happening from happening again. There are no legal standards that would not only protect the budget, but democracy, separation between the branches of government and only the independence of the Bank of Slovenia from the state ownership of banks and the economy, if we want to have it. For in such situations as we have before, the state property of the assassination on democracy and on the basis of the state. This can be measured in billions.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u87	The word has magic. Andrej Shircelj, prepare for the governor, Dr. Boštjan Jazbec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Governor, Secretary of State, everyone else present! However, I must thank the Governor for some answers to questions and explanations. Nevertheless, some things remain open. I think that here, too, my colleagues have opened some things, and my colleague Battelli has opened some questions today, and I'm not going to repeat them here. However, I would like to open up some more questions or look back into the near future. Indeed, there are some estimates that there are still a quarter of the bad claims on banks. In short, what's going to happen to you and how it's going to affect you. Another problem here is that we now have recapitalised banks with factors that are extremely high in terms of capital. And what does this mean for competitiveness or for the sale of these banks? Here I am talking mainly about NKBM, where there is a commitment to sell. The price figures are significantly lower than the recapitalisation, and the bank is becoming uncompetitive, even because of Banka Slovenije's demands for such a high recapitalisation. In short, here should certainly give direction to development, whether Banka Slovenije will decide that this bank will have, for example, this is now the most talked about, the lower capital and will, of course, be more competitive, for foreign or domestic customers, I do not care about this. We have also talked about responsibility and I think that Banka Slovenije has one fundamental role to play in ensuring responsibility for past situations, in banks and in Banka Slovenije itself. And in this regard, I am interested in what the position of the Bank of Slovenia is also about justice or how justice is actually able to process all those cases that the Bank of Slovenia has also sent to the judicial authorities, and I think that this is where the Governor mentioned 107 cases. What's next? It is likely that the Bank of Slovenia procedure will be formally concluded here, but not in fact. After all, it is Banka Slovenije who will also give numerous opinions. And finally, is this the last recapitalisation? Once again, in Austria, Hypo banka is recapitalised with seven ECB positions and so on because they have forgotten to add bad loans from Ukraine and Eastern Europe. Are all the bad loans from the Balkans included here, so to speak, which were held by Slovenian banks in the Balkans, and will this result in recapitalisation because we will add something else to it? And not only the Balkans, we have Frankfurt, but Zurich, and so on, Milan. Well, Milan is gone, in short, but it also has branches such as Nova Ljubljanska Banka and NKBM, for example, in Kragujevac. And you know where the rest are. In short, I am interested in what Banka Slovenije will do in the future, so that we will also have a de facto, not only de jure a stable banking system and that taxpayers will know that they will no longer devote their taxes to recapitalisation. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u89	Dr Boštjan Jazbec, Governor of Banka Slovenije, has the floor. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Method Dragonja, should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u90	Thank you. Let me do it again. Now I have half an hour to return time to 2012. On 28 November 2012, the European Commission adopted a report on the alert mechanism, which identified Slovenia as one of the members to which an in-depth review should be carried out. In-depth review means a careful review involving asset quality checks and burden tests. On 10 April 2013, the results of the in-depth review were published for Slovenia, which concluded that Slovenia had to carry out checks in banks, ranging from 70 to 80 % of the banking system. On 9 May 2013, the Republic of Slovenia submitted a national reform programme for 2013 and a stability programme for 2012-2016. And then the Council of the European Union issued on 9 July 2013 a Council recommendation and Council opinion on Slovenia's Stability Programme for the period 2012-2016, which requested that appropriate measures be taken with the assistance of the European partners, that an independent external consultant be hired to carry out asset quality reviews throughout the system, that these measures be completed in 2013 and that additional capital be provided if additional deficiencies were identified in the transfer of assets or asset quality checks. These are all the requirements that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has had to meet in accordance with the acquis of the European Union and, in particular, because the situation in Slovenia has deteriorated. This was followed, of course, by the rental of all external operators of asset quality reviews, stress tests and, above all, independent asset assessors, especially real estate. What happened then? First, there were quality reviews of the assets that were carried out by Deloitte and Ernst & Young for all eight and ten banks, two of which were already in liquidation, i.e. eight plus two. And what did these companies do? These companies first obtained data from banks at the end of 2012, i.e. actual data which are aggregated on page eight of the methodology report, and then began classifying assets in these banks according to operating loans or good credits, bad credits, classifying committees according to whether they manage real estate transactions or are investors in real estate. On the basis of all this classification of claims, and in particular because short-term credit was expressed in the Slovenian banking system and any renewal of credit or any such credit under the criteria of the European Banking Authority, is considered a non-functional credit, these items have simply been classified into the assets of Slovenian banks. On this basis, negative capital was found for the six Slovenian banks, which required Banka Slovenije to demand either recapitalisation or bankruptcy from owners or Banka Slovenije. Since the rules on granting State aid require that the liquidation assessment of the value of the operating bank should be carried out in the event of the use of the taxpayer’s money, Deloitte and Ernst & Young were again called upon to carry out the liquidation assessments of those banks. Why? In order to determine whether there is any capital left that could possibly be distributed among the owners of subordinated bonds. The Bank of Slovenia was required to do so by law ZBan-1L in 161.b., which deals with the requirements of the liquidation assessment. On several occasions, the question was that companies that carried out the valuation of the liquidation values and did not do so in accordance with accounting standards. However, I believe that Article 5 of the Audit Act, adopted by this National Assembly, provides only for authorised assessors who, in accordance with this Act, can make valuations for the purposes of auditing and accounting reporting, not for other purposes. The liquidation valuation is not a valuation in relation to accounting reporting or audit, but rather a determination of what would be the value of the bankruptcy weight available for the payment of creditors. Moreover, article 261.b states that if an external assessor does not make this assessment, even the Bank of Slovenia may make this assessment itself, which is not an authorised auditor. This means that the law allows and even specifies precisely on what basis and under which standards liquidation assessments have been made. What happened? On the 69th page of the report we made to the National Assembly, the liquidation estimates of banks for which tax money should be used and all estimates are higher than any amount of nominal value of subordinated instruments, which means that the liquidation estimates of these banks were higher than the sum of capital and subordinated bonds, meaning that there was no substantive basis on the basis of these estimates, so that the owners could be converted or proportionally taken into account in any subsequent proceedings. On pages 70 and 71 of this report, the figures are all that I say confirm, and finally there are figures that show how many individual banks have had capital deficits on the basis of which the Bank of Slovenia issued measures or demanded recapitalisation. These estimates are made for each individual bank on pages 79, 80, 81 to 93 in the report on the methodology published. Both reports are public. And on all these figures, while explaining how the assessors came to take account of the discounts in the evaluation of individual items, they are all explained, so in these matters, the role of the Bank of Slovenia cannot simply be questioned in these procedures. Since it has been suggested several times that Banka Slovenije has ordered quality reviews of assets and loading tests to calculate certain numbers, I think it will be best and probably the only reasonable thing to ask these operators and, of course, to obtain evidence and I believe that today, as some of you have said, you will not be able to get answers to these questions so that these things will be clarified. None of the members of the Council, especially me as Governor of Banka Slovenije, have asked anyone for any special accounts and no special numbers, and if these charges continue, you will have to prove to me that I really asked anyone or that these numbers have been adjusted. Second thing. Several times it was pointed out that Banka Slovenije has not acted in years – depending on when you look – but on page 89 of our report is a table saying that Banka Slovenije issued 34 management measures in banks operating in the Republic of Slovenia between 2008 and 2013. Of these, 23 measures were issued to the three largest Slovenian banks, state-owned banks. These measures included warnings and can be found that some members have resigned. They also withdrew because of what Banka Slovenije did. On page 46, however, is a table indicating how many complaints the Bank of Slovenia has issued directly. Here again, I would stress and strongly deny any pressure on the late Prime Minister of the Bank of Celje. I think these accusations are extremely careless and require serious consideration from those who make them. From 2004 to today, we have the sixth government. Since 2008, we have 5 governments. Since the beginning of the financial crisis, officially established since 2008, we have 5 governments. 5 different finance ministers, 5 governments that had different views on what to do with the Slovenian banking system. To blame everything on Banka Slovenije for not taking into account and not demanding, I hope that those who read the report can answer themselves that Banka Slovenije has always demanded and was the one who found that there was an irregularity. These irregularities in the banking system were resolved, but they were resolved in a way that, in the end, even the European Commission requested, as I started, in all the procedures since 2008, 2009, 2012 and 2013 to finally make a careful review of the situation in Slovenia's banking area. It is easy to give an example about different assessments because each one of us can evaluate his own apartment or his own house in a way that, of course, also contains valuable judgements about what this house or property means to someone. Just because of the fact that Banka Slovenije had any subjective opinion that the ownership of the property of someone more valuable than the ownership of someone else's property, which Banka Slovenije thought was less than that first, we hired independent assessors to do all these things in accordance with international standards and practices. And because I hope that all the commissions and investigations that will continue, which I have no doubt, will lead to the conclusion that all things have been done in a formal and substantive manner. Today, two years later, it is extremely difficult to answer rationally. Why? Because these assumptions were made at the time of the biggest Slovenian economic crisis and they simply anticipated at the time what would happen in advance. However, the scenarios, once again, are not a competition for who will be better hit, but simply how much capital banks must have to respond robustly to any problems. And now we come up with these issues in relation to poor claims in Slovenian banks. Slovenian banks have more capital adequacy than others, such as NLB and NKBM, and on average, once again, Slovenian banks barely reach the euro area average, precisely because NLB and NKBM still have a lot of bad claims in their balance sheets. Why is that? My opinion is that, in part, the Act on the Management of Claims of Banks, which is the responsibility of taxpayers to all of us, requires us to cover the claims that these banks also have to Slovenia's non-residents, while at the same time the law does not allow claims where non-resident Slovenia's debtors are not transferred to the DUTB. I do not know why the Law on Bank Claims Management is made in this way, but I do not think that this is a problem that I can only answer because of these problems of poor claims, banks have a greater recapitalisation or just the right recapitalisation in the period until the end of 2015 or 2016, because it is expected on the basis of both the Bank of Slovenia and the European Central Bank that these claims will not solve things quickly. Why? As past practice shows that bad claims are extremely problematic or hard nuts, both NLBs and NKBM therefore have an NPL, poor claims, recapitalisation such that they can absorb potential losses due to the failure to resolve bad claims. Point five. We're working with the judiciary. For this purpose, Banka Slovenije established a special inspection group in 2014, where a representative of the National Investigation Office is with our inspectors. Why? To help the National Investigation Office understand with our supervisory approach what was happening in individual banks and what could still happen in some banks. And this special inspection group is also the one that helps to understand all the problems arising from the Slovenian banking system. Once again, the Slovenian bank hole or capital deficit in Slovenian banks is not the result of what has been happening in Slovenia, but it is partly the result of everything that has happened in all the euro area countries and that is why we are talking about the global financial crisis today. This has also led to systemic solutions or answers to these questions in the euro area. Today we are talking about the Basel standards of the third generation, Basel III standards, today we are talking about the single supervisor we introduced in the euro area on 4 November last year, today we are talking about the European Banking Authority European Banking Regulator, today we are talking about a common rescue fund. These are all responses to the global financial crisis. It is true, however, that certain things have been achieved in Slovenia, mainly because of the way in which we have led the development of the Slovenian economy over the last 24, 25 years. It is unappreciative to discuss whether additional recapitalisation is needed or not. I can only answer you that at this point all Slovenian banks meet capital requirements and that no Slovenian bank has any liquidity problems. What are we doing or doing at the Bank of Slovenia? We have reorganised the Bank of Slovenia in a way that allows for greater response to all the data we receive from Slovenian banks; that allows the separation of management from professional audits, in particular by increasing transparency and responding to all the indications that the Bank of Slovenia has not been prepared or has not done its work well in the past; and in particular, we are developing new model and analytical methods and tools that we can respond to all the problems we have faced in the past and, above all, we are keeping pace with what the Bank of Slovenia represents in the system of European central banks and within the European Central Bank. Once again, all that is happening today, and especially the extremely positive macroeconomic indicators for Slovenia, are also due to what we did in 2013 with the recapitalisation of Slovenian banks. I believe you will not get all the answers to all these questions today. It is true that Banka Slovenije is prepared and supports the clearance of all these things and I hope that we will be able to remove as quickly as possible those last doubts about what we have done in Slovenia in December 2013 and what Slovenia is waiting for in the future, especially from the perspective of the functioning of the Slovenian banking system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u91	The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Methods of Dragonja, has the floor to prepare a proposal for mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The debate was extensive, in depth. Some questions were answered, and some answers were probably not entirely satisfactory. Allow me to focus on what the Government will do or what the Government is doing in this contribution to ensure the sound and efficient functioning of the banking system, and to the maximum extent possible, the open issues that remain unresolved in the topic that we are addressing today are also explained as effectively as possible. In the first place, the Government will support and support the independence of Banka Slovenije in the performance of its functions under the Banka Slovenije Act as an independent supervisor of the banking system. This independence by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will be consistently respected by the fact that we will cooperate as effectively and actively as possible to ensure coordinated action on these rather complex issues. Another question or assurance I can give is whether we can ensure that there is no new need to recapitalise banks. The risks associated with this need to be continuously monitored. One of the systemic measures taken by both Banka Slovenije and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the legislative process, the law was adopted just before the new year, is the Rescue Fund Act for Banks, which should reduce the exposure of taxpayers to possible interventions from public funds to the future. The third issue or activity that I would like to highlight is the clearing up of responsibility in relation to the problems that are being addressed today. The opinion of the Ministry of Finance and the Government is that responsibility must be identified for all those involved in the errors in the banking system. Thus, for those who have approved credit, those who have taken credit, those who have supervised the operations of banks, management bodies in banks, auditors, regulators and also government institutions in the Ministry, if they have abandoned anything they should have done during this period, so that the Government will act actively in determining responsibility, will not hinder these activities and will ensure that all issues related to responsibility and sanctions of past errors can be carried out smoothly. Furthermore, the Government must ensure that both the Republic of Slovenia and the business banks themselves carry out the commitments made under State aid approval procedures. These commitments are quite extensive and difficult. They're monitoring quarterly. Specific auditors shall be appointed to monitor the implementation of these commitments. We are doing a lot of work here, and in this way we are also further reducing the risks associated with the operation of banks. For the time being, these specific auditors have not expressed any major warnings that the banks receiving the measures of the undertakings are not carrying out and that this is being verified. As regards further measures to address open professional issues related to the resolution of the banking system, we have already explained that the Government has set up a working group to prepare a specific system law that will allow independent investigations to be carried out in the preparation and implementation of major infrastructure projects, and which would also cover open issues related to the resolution of the banking system. In particular, this law seeks to create effective conditions to eliminate systemic corruption risks that go beyond penalties in the form of prosecution and suspicion of criminal services, but to establish effective mechanisms that will prevent these risks in the future and which, in particular, in the case of banks, will prevent interference with the banking system of those who cannot influence the decisions on how the banking system works and thus achieve more effective supervisory mechanisms in state banks. This legislative project is expected to be submitted by the Government within a period of two months. Expectations expressed regarding the value of banks in their privatisation process and the expected extractions at the time of the exit of the country should also be placed on the real basis if they are estimated to have matured. It should be pointed out that out of the €3.4 billion of the funds invested in the capital increase of the banks receiving the measures, 1.3 billion was spent on covering negative capital in banks and that there is only an additional $2 billion and $55 million of what is today the capital base, the best quality capital of the banks, and that the basis for any process of equity withdrawals from those banks is the amount of capital left after past losses have been covered. Further, it must be said that we have committed a lot of activity in the Government and have also reported to the National Assembly on several occasions on measures related to the efficiency and improvement of the functioning of the bad bank. In preparation, a new law on measures to ensure the stability of banks, which, on the one hand, will ensure an extension of the deadline and thus give greater emphasis to the fact that the bad bank will be able to participate more actively and more effectively in the restructuring and deleveraging of their companies, and the novelty will bring a number of other solutions. This law is practically written as well. At present, the European Central Bank is given its consent and we expect to be able to submit this law for parliamentary procedure by the end of April. The government has also further established an inter-resort working group to resupply companies in which three government departments and Banka Slovenije are essentially involved. We are preparing or coordinating systemic measures to promote, on the one hand, business deleveraging processes, business restructuring and, on the other hand, risk reduction for business banks in order to restore credit activity. This measure is one of the measures that we are strongly encouraged by various economic missions, both the European Commission and the OECD and the International Monetary Fund. This Interdepartmental Group has become very active and we hope that in this way we will also achieve, on the one hand, risk reduction in the banking system and, on the other hand, easier access by the economy to financial resources from the banking system. I have therefore listed 9 activities and 9 measures that are being implemented at this time by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and are aimed at making the banking system more efficient, more successful, with lower risks and that it can provide its active support to the economy in its operation and even more effectively support economic growth in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u93	The drafter of mags has the floor. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u94	Many years ago, independence brought us many things. Among other things, it is imperative that we start building our own banking system practically again. This banking system had to be repaired first and the first bank recovery took place. This was followed by a period of great national interest when they convinced us that it was necessary to have system banks in state ownership, and that foreigners would no longer look at our finances. Let's ask ourselves, why such an argument? Every bank works for profit, every bank does business. Of course, on the basis of some economic legality. However, the national interest was all too often a cover for certain influential individuals to maintain a direct line to money they should never be entitled to. And the truth is that by privatising possible banks when certain interests arose for the New Ljubljana Bank, these lines would only be lost. Then came a period of financial corruption in which money was to be offered on its own. Bine Cordège explained how the bankers called him themselves and asked him if he could take the money for a possible manager's takeover. The money also made it easier to run along friendly lines, as I said, for credit was not negotiated on credit boards, but on vampires somewhere in Ljubljana, and for millions of credit committees there was no debate, while for those for ten, one hundred thousand euros. This is followed by a period of financial and economic crisis, when also for Slovenian banks a number of international sources of funding close. And that's when our banks, from companies that have previously generously granted them credit, demand that these loans be repaid. But companies have a problem that when they took these loans, they were promised that it was short-term today, but it will be long-term, at home, we will be able to do so. But these friendly arrangements quickly disintegrated. Of course, since companies could not repay money, the domino effect began when companies failed. Here is another important information regarding the crisis in Slovenia and the functioning of the banking system itself. In Slovenia we had two types of banks, state banks and private banks. The crisis was exactly the same for everything, but the way we were doing business was dramatically different. While the state bank caused millions of holes during the crisis, private-owned banks operated virtually without major problems. Now we come to an area where we have to ask, who's responsible for this, how things were running, what kind of control was it? And the first question is what was the regulator's reaction, i.e. Banka Slovenije. Today, we have repeatedly heard that until 2012, the Governor – not this, his predecessor – explained that everything is in the best order, that the Slovenian banking system is stable and that the banks are capital-appropriate. It was only a year ago, from summer 2012 until the end of 2013, everything was on its head. And most likely people who work hard from month to month wonder what happened in one year so dramatic that 2012 was supposed to be all right, and then suddenly the whole drama. And of course, those famous eyewitnesses, when they tell us about the banks, were money for something else, but no. We need to ask ourselves here why this happened. One of the reasons is that the Bank of Slovenia failed to carry out its supervisory and regulatory tasks. That's just the option. The second reason is that the bank was deliberately concealing the seriousness of the situation because it was trying to provide some stability, security, to keep things going. If she was using it, it was a very dangerous game, because sooner or later, the time comes when the bill comes out. A third reason for this situation may also be that someone else has been inflating certain things in the last period of time. Which is true, we haven't found out very precisely today. And, of course, he will have to provide some clarification on these matters as well as the former Governor of the Bank, especially if the parliamentary commission of inquiry is established. If we look at what the owner's reaction was, that is, the country or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, at all times, of course, the question arises why the recapitalisation of banks did not take place. Wouldn't it be much cheaper if the recapitalisations were done in a timely manner than if we now were to rehabilitate our banking system with billions of dollars? Because it is now really a question of who is really an independent and autonomous regulator of the banking system. Banka Slovenije can also self-critically ask at this point what regulator of the banking system is this if the owners who impose certain measures do not take into account it. When our owners and the state acted as if there were nothing, they would be saving their banking systems, for example Germany, elsewhere in Europe in 2009, with hundreds of billions. In those days, according to the words of the ECB and the European Commission, banks were able to resolve themselves through non-conventional measures. I would be very interested in what kind of non-conventional measures these are. Does this mean that, if the State is recovering certain banks, there is no need to apply for authorisation to grant State aid? But what is interesting here is the question of what are the non-conventional measures. Those good ones did their jobs, and then they set rules on how these things work in the future. What was the reaction of Europe, our wider community? We've been fooling around for years, at least since 2009, like there's nothing, and then the devil took a joke and we had these in-depth reviews in 2013 and then everything else that follows. I feel like we've been having a little fun in Slovenia, and then they came from Europe, and we've got a good turn of the ear, so we wouldn't want that in the future. If we look at the situation in banks in the period 2009-2010 or at the start of the crisis and what it is today, then we see that, say, the level of deposits is roughly the same. Here, however, it is necessary to sincerely congratulate Banka Slovenije for her efforts to prevent any panic and fear that people would raise their money in a mass way and take deposits elsewhere. Okay, we can make one hook. If we look at the results before the crisis, we can see that the banks had a lot of borrowed money abroad and that the borrowed money was, of course, happily lending at home. If we look at the current situation, we find that many of these debts have been repaid abroad, but the extent of lending to the economy has decreased considerably. If I say this once again very kindly and at home, we were very heavily indebted in 2009, 2010 and so on, and the account came when our ears were very screwed up, so that these questions and these debts would not be returned. And it looks like we brought them back, but it's known to hurt someone. He suffers mainly from the economy. How was the operation itself, the resolution of the banking system? One of the key dates that have already been exposed several times today. At the end of December, 28 December 2012, the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks, which was threatened by the referendum and prevented by the Constitutional Court. This law created the basis for the DUMB. If we are somewhat self - critical, the Court of Auditors finally told us that we may have done things recklessly. This criticism must also be taken into account on our part, and now these reckless cases must be resolved thoughtfully, because I think that the final findings of the Court of Auditors are rather harsh and require concrete action. However, I am sure that the decision on the bad bank was still correct today because the banks themselves did not solve these things until then. The departments for dealing with bad claims within the banks did not create and waited in some way for what would happen. Of course, there have also been certain irregularities that need to be addressed, as I have already said. During 2014, DUTB transferred around EUR 5 billion of bad claims, for which DUTB paid around EUR 1 billion and a half in bonds. I'm not going to go into what discounts were, some say that enormous and too big, that things were transported elsewhere at much higher values, somewhere even at market values, others say they weren't. But I see, above all, at these discount rates, a very high risk for those who, by their poor management and by their bad actions, caused large holes and thus poor claims transferred from banks to bad banks to see a unique opportunity for these discounts to buy their assets back again. All I want is for DUTB to manage this property as well as possible and to make the most of it. The next important element in the process of rehabilitation of the banking system is the European Commission's famous message. We have clearly different opinions here, and we insist on these different opinions today. For some, this message is binding; for others, it will be decided by the court. However, a key law in the whole matter is certainly the Banking Act. Those of you who have sat in this room or in this House in the previous term know that there has been a great deal of opposition to this law. So the Association of Banks of Slovenia opposed him, we opposed him in opposition and some others, but things went their way and this law created the basis for the rehabilitation of the banking system that we are witnessing today. I can understand the governor and his team, who says, "Yes, we were just doing what you agreed to. Not all of them. Some of them did. The next important element is the amendment of the Public Finance Act. With that law, the power to decide how much money will be transferred from Parliament to the Government. At that time, or some cut off their hands and prevented them from making such decisions. Then things thickened very quickly, on December 12th, the government tells us how much money we need to rehabilitate the banking system. On 17 December, however, the Bank of Slovenia's unusual decisions relating to or justified by a decision of the European Commission were followed the following day when the European Commission decided that State aid was allowed. What are the main uncertainties in the recovery process? The main uncertainties and things that have been discussed in the media as well as in this house and elsewhere are the differences in numbers, such as the bank balance sheet as early as 30 September 2013 and the assessments of the audit houses. We can understand what has been done today and how many times has it been explained that they are one accounting value and the other is liquidation value. And all this Parliament and some Members want is to simply communicate the method to us or to tell us how this method was implemented when the liquidation value was determined. The representatives of Banka Slovenije point us to the contractor all the time, when Banka Slovenije had nothing to do with it, they had authorized operators. Okay, I get it. Understand, too, that if we or you have paid for this matter, we have the most likely right to know how these things have been valued. I also understand that because of bank secrecy you do not want or can not disclose specific content and specific folders. However, in imaginary cases you can tell the method of how these things are done and whether they really follow those indications that the liquidation value was determined by the students in the cars that drove past the houses and the knowledge of these houses was estimated at EUR 4 000. These are the things we're interested in. The next thing, where there was a huge debate and a variety of opinions, are scenarios for stress tests. We understand that stress test scenarios are hypothetical, which means that it is very unlikely that such an event will happen and that this will even happen. But the key to this is if these rules and these frameworks were applied to all the same. Some information says no. And in order to be able to believe these things that Banka Slovenije has practically worked under all the regulations and that there is nothing, then we also need certain answers why some countries have allowed slightly different scenarios. I have already mentioned this today that, for example, in the case of Spain, prices have been made from the bottom up and from the top down, for the basic, for the negative scenario, but in the end an intermediate combination has been chosen. But with us, it's just a negative scenario. I also understand the Bank of Slovenia that it may have been the position of the European Commission and the ECB, that they do not give up and say so in Slovenia. However, it is probably a legitimate question for us Members to be interested in why one rule was applicable to Slovenia and slightly different to Spain. Because it depends on which scenario we take into account, then it depends on how big the bank hole is, but of course it also depends on whether individual people are flattered or not. In short, this information draws a whole series of events behind it. The Bank of Slovenia explains that it is not intentional, deliberately sharpened the input data and other parameters in order to result in a larger bank hole and, consequently, the decommissioning of bondholders and shareholders. If we believe them in good faith, then we still need an answer why the same approach has not been taken for all EU members. If I had my thoughts a little, then I'd say the governor didn't give all the explanations today. Understandably, we asked him about a number of details. Maybe he doesn't know everything either, even though he has a lot of knowledge. He complained that he had too little time, but I think he had about 15 minutes left. I also understand that in an hour it is sometimes difficult to explain all the details and details that we receive in the mail received by the Bank of Slovenia, but the Governor and his team must understand that it is billions and that people are very sensitive to these things when they feel that billions are not a problem for someone, but for others there is a million problems. And if, in good faith, I believe that the Bank of Slovenia is right, then it would be necessary for all possible questions, perhaps more firmly said, to be answered directly. It is not in my power, but I would strongly recommend that they open a special tab on their website where they answer all complaints, complaints and all questions in clear and clear terms. I know that it takes a lot of time, and I can also understand that some people are already determined in advance, what they will have, but they need to understand that they must do everything they can to communicate well with the public, and that they are practically putting everything possible on the table for people, because if there is a public feeling that all these billions have been thrown away needlessly, who will then believe in the institutions of the state and the rule of law. Therefore, when it comes to an important event, such as the rehabilitation of the banking system, it is necessary to make every effort to explain as many things as possible, even though this is difficult. For the end, just the way it goes. What will be the next steps? Today this debate may be an introduction to the search for information, to the search for all the answers we are interested in. Of course, it's one day, one session, nine hours may not be enough for 5 billion, but like I said, if we start today and continue with these things, then we can reach the goal. Next thing. The State and its law enforcement authorities are obliged to do their utmost to bring those responsible for these huge holes to justice. I think it kills the spirit of the country if people talk about how a small person is always punished, while those responsible for millions or billions of losses do not get hurt. For the sake of the country, for the sake of relations within the country and for the sake of hope, these things must also be done. What about the banks we just fixed? I'm sure they'll then be apprehensive that the banks will continue to be in state ownership, extremely large, but if that happens, it's a new scenario for possible recovery number 3. If anything, politics has proved in all these 25 years that it simply cannot keep its hands off the economy, and therefore the only way to solve these banking problems once and for all is to privatise them. I believe that it will also be easier for Banka Slovenije to impose certain corrective measures on a private owner than on its own country. I hope that from today's session we will all go a little bit more optimistic, that these things will be resolved positively and that we have not done so today. [[Make a gesture with hands for the work done]] And our work is done.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u95	I conclude the general debate. As no amendments have been tabled to the supplementary proposal for a recommendation, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a recommendation. We decide on the following recommendation: Banka Slovenije should provide the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in detail with a methodology for carrying out a careful review of banks in 2013. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Modern Centre Party, mag. Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting! According to the information received, we estimate that the Bank of Slovenia acted within its powers and in accordance with the legal basis and in the light of the recommendations of the European Central Bank. We believe that the process of rehabilitation of banks has been carried out professionally, responsibly and transparently. The SMC Group trusts in the operation of the Bank of Slovenia. Through the explanations provided so far, we have received answers to the dilemmas raised and to its past operation. In the context of all the clarifications given, we support the proposed recommendations in question. Once again, we point out that there is full confidence in the functioning of the Bank of Slovenia in the SMC Group. That is why we will vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u97	An explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors shall be given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u98	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will vote in favour of the proposed recommendation for the reasons that I will now state and apply to all Members of the United Left. We will support the recommendation because we do not agree to the Bank of Slovenia's standard response to look at the comprehensive report on the careful review of the banking system. This report has been published online for 15 months and we know it, of course, but it does not explain in detail the methodology of due diligence, which requires a decision that is likely to be adopted by the National Assembly, given the debate heard today. In addition, we will support the decision because we expect answers to the questions that the Governor has managed to avoid today, even though he had 75 minutes of time. Today, the Governor said that for calibration and in particular for the ventilation of the results by the method from below and, in particular, for any methodological concerns, stress tests from above had to be carried out. The Bank of Slovenia, however, had no concerns when the test from above showed 1.5 billion deficits more than the test from below. The difference was therefore 45 %. Mr Trček quoted Oliver Wyman's report on stress tests in Spain in 2012. There were results by both methods, ranging from above down and down below, practically identical. For us, the difference was 45%, or the difference between one and the other was a billion and a half. The Bank of Slovenia should request the correction of these tests, should require that the results of both methods be combined. That is why we will support this decision because the decision requires an explanation of how this has happened and who is responsible for it if I use the word preferred by my colleague Trček. However, I would point out that, in the United Left, we have proposed that the decision be supplemented by a new point on the independent review of bank recovery measures. The coalition did not support this amendment by clarifying that it is not necessary and that the Government is already preparing its own proposal for a law on the investigation and revision of major projects that may affect the stability and effectiveness of the financial system of the country, so I would like to point out that, when we vote today, we must be aware that we are also accepting a moral obligation that the revision of the measures for the rehabilitation of the banks will indeed be carried out. The bill contains a provision that only a judicial authority or a minister may be proposed by the establishment of a commission. Given that the government has been reporting all the time that the recovery was okay, I doubt if it will really agree to set up a commission. When I vote in favour of this decision, I will do it because I believe that the coalition of investigations will not block it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u99	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Dr. Križanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u100	Dear President, the High Council! The proposed decision will be supported by the Social Democrats. We will support it because we believe that it is necessary to clarify how such a high recapitalisation has taken place, without having previously carried out a review of the large difference between the different estimates of how bad the claims are. Even though bad claims were made at the time due to the interruption of credit relations in purely natural economic procedures, when the actual investment did not bear this and it was clear that it was not possible to return it in the short term when the loan was granted. The whole range of bad claims is seemingly poor, and when credit activity changes, they will turn out to be good. At that time, of course, if the economy is not sold out, those who are still owners will profit. The property must also be reimbursed to the banks which it was. But if this is sold out, of course the buyers, the ones who are now coming, will profit. The difference between what is gained and what is paid for those who are now buying Slovenian banks will be even greater. We expect this to be one of the measures that will allow the recovery of this "sanimation", so we will support the conclusion.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-13-SDZ7-Izredna-10.ana.u101	We can vote. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I note that the recommendation has been unanimously adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 10th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. I inform members and members of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy that in 15 minutes the 23rd urgent meeting of the Committee will begin in the large lounge.
