ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the seventh session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Tanja Zink, Mrs. Xenia Root Kramar, mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, Mrs. Marinka Levičar, mag. Margareta Guček Zakošek by 2 p.m., Mrs. Irena Grošelj Kosnik by 12 p.m., Dr. Milan Brglez from 6 p.m. to 6 p.m., Mr. Matjaž Germany, Mr. Kamal Izidor Shaker, Dr. Franc Trček, Matjaž Hanžek, mag. Andrej Šircelj, Dr. Bojan Dobovšek, Mr. Peter Wilfan, Mr. Roberto Battelli, Mr. Benedict Kopmajer by 12 noon, mag. Branislav Rajić by 11 a.m., Mr Marko Ferluga by 11 a.m. and Mr Uroš Prikl by 2 p.m. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, this is on a defensive proposal for a law on the expansion of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of Dars D.D. For the purposes of credits and debt securities leased on the basis of the current D.D. debt refinancing procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, and this is to the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance to Mr Method Dragoni.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In order to finance the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, Dars was in charge of the state guarantee. The proposed law is subject to the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia to Dars d. d. for the refinancing obligations of certain existing loans or existing issued debt securities leased under the consent laws and guarantee laws listed in the table, i.e. to refinance the existing debt that has been leased for investments in the past. Together, loans totalling EUR 2 billion 648 million are being refinanced. The adoption of the law is necessary in order to ensure the long-term financial sustainability of the operation of the Company for Motorways, the part of which is also repayment of the debt owed for construction purposes in accordance with the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia and to reduce the risk of the redemption of these guarantees. The analysis of the maturity of these debts shows that there is a discrepancy over the next few years between the maturity of the liability and the available financial resources or during the free cash flow and that it is therefore proposed to refinance these debts with the State's partial guarantee. In this way, we ensure that Darsa's old financial obligations are resolved by a special law. With the guarantee, we will reduce the cost of refinancing these debts and ensure that Dars has at annual level the Circus €75 million of free cash flow that he will be able to use to maintain the existing motorway system and for some of the necessary investment necessary to improve the highway system and traffic management systems and tolling systems. As regards possible financial structures and ways of financing new motorway sections, special proposals or special legislation will be submitted to both the Government and the National Assembly, which will be linked first to the preparation and then to the harmonisation of the programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia in the coming period. In this way we actively manage Darsa's debt, ensure Darsa's normal repayment capacity and, above all, ensure competitive conditions under which this debt will be financed. We use mainly the models used by other motorway companies in comparable countries to build their motorway systems. For example, Asfinag in Austria, which owns 100 % of the Austrian state, has a covered state guarantee of EUR 12 billion to cover its obligations. The mechanism of the law allows the Ministry to control the terms of the debt and ensure that these terms of the debt, both at interest rates and at costs, are in line with the market conditions. We therefore propose to the National Assembly that this law, which has been dealt with by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, should adopt and take into account amendments which are mainly editorial in nature and which did not interfere with the content of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u3	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of Mrs Urska Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u4	Mr President, thank you for saying so. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 25th emergency session. 4. 2015 as a parent working body, the proposal for the Republic of Slovenia Guarantee Act for the obligations of the DARS, d.d., on credits and debt securities leased or issued for the refinancing of the existing DARS debt, d.d. submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following an urgent procedure. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments to the draft law were tabled by SMC, Desus and SD. A proposal for an amendment to the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD to Article 1 has also been submitted to the members and members of the Committee. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Council of State, Dars and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. In the introductory addendum, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained that the purpose of the proposed law is to ensure the financial sustainability of Dars, d.d. In the past, Dars has made commitments under several laws to build a highway system, totalling EUR 2 billion 650 million. The proposed mechanism allows the reprogramming of liabilities of EUR 300 million per year in a way that ensures an adequate free cash flow, both for debt reprogramming and for the normal maintenance and urgent improvement of the motorway system and the traffic management and management system. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service further clarified the comments made by the Service in its written opinion. These concern, in particular, an explanation that summarises the content of the articles, which raises the question of clarity and possible subordination. She explained that, on the basis of the comments made by the service, amendments were tabled by coalition parliamentary groups, which were not only editorial but also substantive. A representative of the Council of State also took part in the meeting, which presented the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Economic Affairs, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, which supports the proposed law. The representative of the administration of Dars d.d. stressed the importance of the proposed law, which allows for the active management of the company’s existing obligations. In doing so, he highlighted the current substantive and financial efficiency of the company’s management and stressed that Dars’ services were assessed as very well on the European scale and that the company had a profit of 70 million euros in 2014. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee generally supported the proposed law. They stressed the importance of quality and developed infrastructure for road safety and the development of the Slovenian economy and considered that the accelerated construction of highways in the past, based on debt in the light of EU entry and increased transparency of transport, was an appropriate solution. The question of the debt classification of Dars d.d. was also raised in public debt, in which the Secretary of State explained that this debt was classified as a private debt and that if the debt were to be classified as a public debt, the current debt would be increased by 7 %. A question was also raised regarding the working group, which was to be established with a view to examining the possibility of privatisation of Dars, d.d. In this regard, individual members expressed opposition to privatisation and the Secretary of State explained that Dars d.d. was defined as a strategic undertaking in the investment management strategy. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted the amendment of the Committee to the amendment of the coalition to Article 1 of the proposed law and all amendments of the coalition groups. The Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them in full. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, for her mag. Bojan Krajnc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u6	Mr President, thank you for saying so. By means of the proposed Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the liabilities of Dars d.d., on credits and debt securities leased or issued for the refinancing of the existing debt of Dars d.d., the Republic of Slovenia shall provide a guarantee for Dars liabilities under leased loans or issued debt securities for the purpose of refinancing the existing debt. The refinancing of the existing debt under this Act means the payment of existing liabilities from Darsa credits and debt securities that have been leased or issued under the consent and guarantee laws for the purposes of implementing the national highway construction programme. The Republic of Slovenia guarantees up to EUR 300 million of principal loans or the value of annuity of debt securities. The adoption and immediate implementation of the proposed law will allow for the rapid refinancing of Darsa's debt portfolio, which will also improve the financial sustainability of the company. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we estimate that Dars will be able to obtain access to the cheapest possible debt during the period of low interest rates with the State guarantee. We can even say that in the current situation, Dars will be able to repay himself cheaper than he has in the past. This will improve the structure of the debt portfolio and reduce the risk arising from debt, enabling active debt management, which was not possible after the current arrangement. This will ensure the sustainable servicing of debt in the coming years and the reduction of the potential liabilities of the Republic of Slovenia issued guarantees to Darsu. Dars began to become more indebted in the past in 2006 when the construction of the highways accelerated. Before 2006, the company financed a third by borrowing, a third by toll and a third by state budget. In 2006, this model changed and Dars was financed solely by debt and toll, and the company became heavily indebted. During the years 2006 to 2008, Darsu was issued with guarantees of more than EUR 2.5 billion. And Dars has a positive cash flow today, and he's making a profit. Thus, in 2014, it generated EUR 70 million of net profit. Dars will be able to implement the refinancing process for loans and debt securities by 31. 12. 2030, under the following conditions: the final maturity of loans or debt securities shall not exceed 31. 12. 2040; the cost of borrowing a loan shall not exceed half a percentage of the value of the principal of the loan; the costs of the organisation of issuing debt securities shall not exceed 1% of the nominal value of the issue; the required contribution to Darsa debt securities shall be comparable to the required contributions to comparable government securities. The Group of the Party of the Modern Centre will support the Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for Dars liabilities on loans and debt securities leased or issued to refinance the existing debt of Dars.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u7	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u8	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The key solutions provided by the Proposal for a Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of Dars, d.d., on credit and debt securities leased or issued for the refinancing of the existing debt of Dars, are assessed as being in principle appropriate in the Slovenian Democratic Party and in the sending group. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we estimate that the market situation in relation to debt is appropriate and that such a way of proposing a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of Dars which it brings does not have a negative impact on business and may even be positive at certain times. From everything said in the SDS Group, we will not oppose the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u9	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, have a good day! Allow me to present to you the position of the Desus Group on the Proposal for a Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of Dars, d.d., on credits and debt securities leased or issued for the refinancing of the existing debt of Dars. Your Honor! We have before us a bill that the Desus Group will unanimously support as it will allow for the immediate refinancing of Dars' credit portfolio. The Act provides the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia to Dars for the refinancing of the existing debt, i.e. the debt that has been leased for investments in the past. With the adoption of the proposed law, the Republic of Slovenia will guarantee creditors and buyers of debt securities to fulfil their obligations to Dars. In the Desus Group, we are convinced that the adoption of the law is necessary, as it ensures the long-term financial sustainability of the company, whose part is the repayment of the debt due to the construction needs in accordance with the national programme for the construction of motorways. The analysis of the financial structure shows that, over the coming years, there will be a discrepancy between available resources and debt repayment obligations, and therefore debt needs to be refinanced. This gives the State the guarantee to refinance Dars' debt up to EUR 300 million per year of principal loans or the value of annuity of debt securities. At the same time, in the Desus Group, we are aware that Dars would owe much more money without the State guarantee. Although Dars has done his best in the last three years and has generated €70 million in profits last year, we stress that the company's future target income must exceed €350 million in the long term in order to ensure the company's sustainability. At the same time, the Desus Group would draw attention to the alarming state of the entire network of state roads. The reason lies mainly in the lack of budgetary resources for investments and current maintenance and added itss to last year's phalanges. In the last decade, there has been a trend in the reduction of budget resources for investment road maintenance, and the possibilities for systemically providing funding for the maintenance and renewal of the state roads network in the Republic of Slovenia will need to be explored. As already mentioned, the proposal for legislation in the Desus Group will be unanimously supported, while we would like to point out the necessity of minimising risk so that potential public debt does not become an explicit public debt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u11	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u12	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. In parallel with talking about eliminating the consequences of large debts and the possibility of reprogramming Darsa's credits, it is also right to remember how prestige has taken place on the political floor over the decades, which in the end resulted in overpayment of the highway cross, that we have not, after all, even before the failure of the development axes, and also many state roads are failing us, which during the construction period also largely financed from highway building funds and, last but not least, we have seen the collapse of our largest construction companies. All of this can be summed up briefly in the fact that the construction of the highway was irritated mainly by speculation about land. Few countries have such a system as us that land is not redeemed at the official estimated value and, if any do not agree with it, they can later also have justice with the State, but in any case the state has the money provided, as envisaged by the estimated value. In addition, environmental requirements have contributed greatly to the imitations, and new requirements have always and always come and, last but not least, cartel negotiations have led to the instigation of construction. If we remember that even through the construction of the motorway, we changed the toll system in a way that we had less and less money picked up, then this spread was getting bigger and it's no surprise that we're talking today about how we're reprogramming Dars' debt. In fact, at first we had a closed toll system, so you paid as much as you were transporting, then there was an open toll system with which we missed a large proportion of users past tolling, and not least then we also experienced the introduction of a vignette system with which we largely reduced the source from tolls to cover credit obligations. During all this period we have also drastically reduced funding with the help of a gas tolar at the time, today it would be, say, a gas cent. So if we look at this revenue structure, let's say that between 1998 and 2008 it represents a petrol tolar or a good billion euro, and when we ask ourselves today how to build development axes, this is certainly one of those considerations that we have yet to seriously analyse and, of course, decide on this step. If we also look at the structure of the financing of motorways, we find that from 1994 to 2003, the debt fund was financed at 40% of the funds, and this percentage was already 72% between 2004 and 2012. If I add to this already mentioned appropriations, the gas toll amounted to 53% between 1994 and 2003 between 2004 and 2012, totalling 6.5%. These data actually tell us everything, and even if we remember that the flow of money has fallen sharply by introducing the vignettes, and if you remember the price of the vignette when we introduced it, that was 55 euros in 2008, today is 110. How much money we lost since we had already introduced the vignette system at a substantially low level than we could have introduced it at the time. All of this has actually led us to talk today about how to actually reprogram Darsa's debt and allow him to repay in peace his obligations, which are actually too high due to these facts, and of course also allow him to maintain highways normally and also develop the highway system in the future. Thus, the refinancing of the existing debt under better and sustainable conditions, which is the aim of this law, will certainly help achieve this objective, and the Social Democrats will, of course, support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u13	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u14	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Last November, data were received on the so-called Dars Working Group, composed of staff of the ministries of finance, infrastructure and Slovenian State Holding. The report, which was published in the media, shows that the group has been playing over the privatisation scenarios for Dars. In the United Left, we had already called on the Government to suspend all preparations for Dars' privatisation and instead to submit, as soon as possible, a covert guarantee law that would allow for the normal short-term refinancing of Darsa's debts. According to our data, this short law was prepared already in 2013, but the submission was said to have been blocked by the Ministry of Finance. Why the deposit lasted for two years, we are not aware, and the fact is that with the adoption of this law, the main reason for the privatisation of Darsa will fall away. In the material, two projections, from which you can understand that Darsa's income will be short-term, say, over the next four to six years, are still too small for the opposite servicing of debt, but this is also a whole critical period, and then, over the next decades, Dars will be a normally functioning and profitable infrastructure society of strategic importance. And the privatisation of such a company would be unheard of. This is because, in both draft investment classifications so far, Dars is defined as a portfolio investment, i.e. a company that needs to be fully privatised or awarded to the concessionaire. Let me recall once again the bad experience of Croatia with concessions on Istrian highways, which have recently been resisted by civil society and trade unions, as the country regularly pays the concessionaire the difference between actual and guaranteed transport. Let me also remind you that our northern neighbour Austria holds its Dars Asfinag in 100% of state ownership and is not managed by an Austrian state holding company like us SDH, but by a directly competent ministry. In Austria or Germany, which are also members of the OECD – that is, the fact that we are members of the OECD is often used as an argument for privatisation – does not leave the management of strategic infrastructure companies to financial holding companies. At the same time, it must be reiterated that Darsa’s debt did not arise because Dars would invest because he would be malpractice or would have been credited. Dars was building on a national plan and the debt was incurred because governments consciously decided to finance motorways by borrowing instead of from the budget. Every credit from Darsa between 1995 and 2010 was confirmed by the National Assembly with a special law. Darsa's debt today amounts to €2.6 billion, as we have heard many times. Of this, 1.7 billion euros or 63% of this debt were incurred between 2004 and 2008. Only in 2005 and 2006, EUR 1.46 billion of credits were leased, saying that in these two years more credits have been created than in all the remaining 11 together. This debt was indeed unsustainable because current revenues were too low. The construction of the highway was not Dars' decision, but it was a pre-election move by the then government. In addition, the construction of the motorway was one of the reasons for overheating the economy in pre-crisis years, as the Bank of Slovenia has repeatedly pointed out, and has contributed significantly to 17% of the major investments in these critical years when the economy was already overheated. However, we have long been paying for the polls of the then government. But the fact is that the law before us today is useful, good, and that is why we will support it in the United Left. However, we expect Prime Minister Cerar to keep his word this time and that this law will also end the story of the privatisation of Dars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u15	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Mr Dragonja, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The well-developed transport infrastructure is the backbone of the development of each company, economy and service activity in the broadest sense. If we look at the development of road infrastructure today, we can see that Slovenians have been accelerating the construction of motorways and fast roads in recent years, but we have also accelerated our debt. Without a doubt, their construction represents a large cost- and time-consuming component, so it was almost inevitable to be in charge of this purpose. The management and regular maintenance of motorway sections, which is a compulsory economic public service which, in accordance with the Roads Act, must ensure the maintenance of public roads in good condition, requires a substantial financial contribution. When Dars fully took over financing for the construction and restoration of motorways and fast roads in 2010 under the Law on the Society for Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, he also assumed a financial debt of EUR 2 000 998.5 million, i.e. three billion euros. Since the analysis of the financial structure of the debt repayment shows that there will be a discrepancy between the available assets and the financial liabilities arising from the repayment of the debt, it is necessary to restructure the debt and thereby ensure its smooth repayment. The fact is that such a solution only allows the restructuring of the debt under the State guarantee, which will improve Darsa’s financial sustainability and reduce the risk arising from that debt. Since this is exclusively about the refinancing of the existing debt that has been hired for investments in the past, this also means ensuring the implementation of the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, Members of the New Slovenia - Christian Democrats Proposal for the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for obligations of Dars, d.d., on credits and debt securities hired or issued to refinance the existing debt of Dars, d.d., we support. Dars currently operates a total of 607 km of highways and fast roads, 166 km of connections to them, 23 km of rifts, and more than 30 km of resting places. Its mission is to implement state highway programmes, manage the highway network and provide quality services to users of motorways and fast roads. The fact is that in the last three years the company has been most successful in terms of operating performance. The result is due to the consolidation, restructuring and rationalisation activities carried out in all areas of business. It is also true that since 2009, the company has not received any funds from the State budget and therefore itself has financed the construction and renewal of motorways and fast roads. These are all arguments justifying the adoption of the said guarantee law. In New Slovenia we are aware of the responsibility arising from the State guarantee to fulfil Darsa's obligations, but in this case we defend the guarantee, because it is a guarantee that does not represent a risk, as was already the State guarantee given in advance for the construction of TES 6, to which we were the only Christian Democrats in the National Assembly. In view of the above, the Members of New Slovenia will support the proposal for a law. In view of the fact that we are certainly accompanied by members of the Dars administration, I would also like to take this moment to take advantage of the appeal and the initiative that I sent to Dars seven years ago, which is to mark the location of the famous Plečnik architecture in the municipality of Moravske Toplice, in the village of Bogojina – the church of the Lord's Ascension – and if we are serious about tourism in Slovenia and if we Slovenians are proud of our architecture, to Plečnik's architecture, then I hope that after ten years of my first initiative this thing will only be realized. I hope so.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u17	We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 6th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. On the day-to-day basis, this is the second defence proposal of the law on the management of alternative investment funds on a regular basis. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Method Dragonji.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u18	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In opening, I would like to briefly present the content of the bill and the reasons for its proposal. The financial crisis has shown a wide range of vulnerabilities in the financial system, requiring careful reviews of existing supervisory measures for all stakeholders in the European financial market. One of the areas was the operation of alternative investment fund managers. The alternative investment funds sector has a huge increase each year and a wide range of investment strategies and techniques, which means investing in a large variety of financial assets. This sector, for example, includes hedge funds, venture capital funds, real estate funds, start-up and development capital funds and the like. Due to the greater risk posed by these funds, alternative investment funds are usually intended for professional investors. The fund managers themselves were not responsible for the financial crisis, but developments in the financial markets also hit the fund sector. Many managers have found themselves in liquidity difficulties, as the market situation has caused a lot of discrepancies between the liquidity promised by the managers to investors in the funds and the liquidity of alternative investment funds, which have become very illiquid due to the financial crisis. In 2009 the European Commission published a proposal for a directive on alternative investment fund managers in order to regulate and harmonise the operation of fund managers at European Union level. After a year and a half of negotiations, a directive was published in the Official Journal of the EU in July 2011 to ensure the comprehensive and joint regulation of the controls of alternative investment fund managers and to establish a risk management framework, taking into account the diversity of investment strategies and techniques used by these managers. The aim of the Directive was to cover and regulate all persons who manage investor assets and were not yet regulated at the time of adoption of the Directive. In order to cover all such forms, the Directive does not restrict itself to the status form of the Fund, but binds its application to the fact that someone manages the assets of investors. This bill, together with the new ZISDU-3, which will be discussed under the next item of the agenda for today's meeting, will reorganise the landscape of the management of investment funds also in the Republic of Slovenia. Funds and managers will be reorganized. The Investment Fund will be any fund that raises investors' assets on the basis of a new arrangement. The concept of the Investment Fund will thus extend to funds that can only be invested by professional investors. Investment funds will be divided into collective investment firms to invest in transferable securities and alternative investment funds on the basis of the new arrangement. The latter will be further divided into alternative private and public investment funds. ZISDU-3 will organise alternative public investment funds and collective ventures, and this proposal will provide alternative private investment funds to professional investors. The proposal will also set out new categories of investment fund managers. In addition to management companies, three new categories of operators will be introduced, namely, the manager of an alternative investment fund authorised by the supervisory authority to manage those funds. The second form shall be regulated by alternative investment fund managers who are not authorised and shall only inform the Supervisory Board that they are acting in the field of the most important instruments they trade in on behalf and of the main exposures and the most important investment concentrations. The third is the managers of the Special Investment Fund, which manages one of the predetermined forms of the Special Investment Fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u19	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Tiln Bozic, Vice-President.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! At its 8th regular meeting on 7 April 2015, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the Government's proposal for an alternative fund manager law as a work force. In addition to the proposal, we were given an opinion on the legislative and legal services and amendments of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. The representative of the applicant explained in the introductory explanation the reasons for the adoption of the bill and presented a set of solutions to be put into our legal order by adoption. In the light of the strengthening of the European financial system, one of the important areas is also the improvement of the regulation of alternative investment funds. At the level of the European Union, Directive 2011/61 was published in July 2011, which provides a more comprehensive approach to regulating the supervision of alternative investment fund managers and establishes a framework for risk management, taking into account the diversity of investment strategies and managers' techniques. The aim of the Directive is to provide an internal market for managers of different types of alternative investment funds and a harmonised and strict regulatory and supervisory framework. The implementation of this Directive into the Slovenian legal order to the new regulation of the investment funds in the Republic of Slovenia, as part of the two proposals for laws that we are considering at today's meeting. These are the proposals of the Investment Funds and Management Companies Act and the Proposal for a Law on Alternative Investment Funds Managers, which is the subject of this item on the agenda. Current legislation only governs the management of funds that raise assets publicly. With the adoption of both proposals, the investment fund will be any fund intended to raise investors’ assets — that is, publicly or from professional investors — and will, in accordance with a predetermined investment policy, invest in different types of investment in favour of the unit holders of this investment fund. The definition of the investment fund extends all of this to funds intended for professional investors. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service has focused her concerns mainly on the insufficiently defined and reasoned relationship between the two legislative proposals, the need for a clearer definition for the managers of whose alternative investment funds are going, the requirement for clarity and certainty of legal standards, which is particularly important in defining offences and the unreasoned provision on the Agency's ability to require the issuance of records of telephone conversations or other data. Several concerns were raised in the debate, mainly concerning the large number of amendments and the extensive opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the legal provision allowing the Agency to access the content of telephone conversations of natural persons, the required 25 % capital adequacy, the extension of application to uneducated investors and the lack of comparable data for this activity for the territory of Slovenia and the assessment of the impact on the economy. The representative of the applicant raised her concerns, of which the following is undoubtedly relevant: to address the unregulated area of alternative investment funds intended for trained investors, to make it difficult to assess the situation in the field of alternative investment funds, since so far it has not been the duty to report that uneducated investors are not considered to be educated or can only be considered to be educated if they so wish and that the evidence concerning any poorly prepared laws is somewhat rejected, as it is intended to be the main measure for editorial corrections. Furthermore, the representative of the Association of Investment Fund Management Companies stressed that they had been involved in the drafting of the draft law and that their comments were mostly taken into account or, in the event of rejection, duly justified. It assessed the bill as a necessity for proper monitoring of the development of European legislation. The representative of the Securities Market Agency also explained that, in the case of a draft law, it is an extremely complex law which is not intended for an average citizen, but for a narrow circle of persons who face this issue daily. Despite its complexity, he considered the bill a good one. As part of the vote, all amendments to the SMC, Desus and SD coalition groups were then adopted. There was also a vote by the Committee on all articles of the bill together, which were also adopted by the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u21	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Secretary! The regulation of the scope of operations of alternative investment fund managers is certainly important, since so far, with the exception of venture capital companies, these funds have been unregulated, with extremely little control and poor transparency. These are funds that are generally intended for professional investors due to high risks. These funds, as we have already heard today, are hedge funds, venture capital funds, real estate funds, start-up and development capital funds. Each fund has its own investment policy. These are funds that grow year after year and for which the financial crisis has shown to be one of the more vulnerable points of the financial system. During the financial crisis, so many have found themselves in liquidity problems, fortunately more in Europe than in Slovenia. In 2011 the European Commission adopted a directive to regulate the operation of alternative investment fund managers to ensure joint supervision of alternative investment fund managers and to establish a risk management framework. The bill before us is a very opaque law, which in the first place needed a number of editorial corrections with numerous amendments by coalition parties. We also agree with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which assessed that this is a difficult subject which, if you are not an expert in this field, is extremely difficult to follow because of many departments, sub-sections, references to other acts. The law merely copies two Directives to a greater extent; the 2011 Directive on Alternative Investment Funds Managers and the 2013 Directive on the supervision of occupational pension institutions. The deadline for transposition of both Directives has expired; for the first in mid-2013 and for the second in late 2014. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we estimate that the assessment of the actual situation of the proposed law is very poor, because it does not provide information on how this property has been managed so far, although this area has been in Slovenia for a long time, except that it has not been regulated. It would be good if the assessment of the actual situation contained the current situation in the area under consideration, how many people have assets in these funds and what the average results of these investments are. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we agree that the scope of the operation of the alternative investment fund manager should be regulated. However, since the law is poorly prepared, as the numerous comments of the Legislative and Legal Service have shown, we cannot support it, but we will not oppose it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u23	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u24	Mr President, Mr Secretary with co-workers, honourable Members and Members, once again a nice welcome. The bill before us is substantively very extensive. It could not be recast due to a number of corrections. The process of taking comments and developing appropriate solutions is already in September 2014, which means only one – an additional time for a thorough review of individual articles. In principle, it is supposed to be a simple regulation, namely the transposition of the European Directive. And what does the transposition of the European Directive into Slovenian law actually mean? First of all, arrangements for alternative investment funds intended primarily for professional investors. The consequences of the financial crisis can also be felt in this area. The latter were precisely one of the reasons for the change in the current regime, mainly with regard to the elimination of deregulation and liquidity problems of alternative investment fund managers. The investment fund market itself is still unknown to many, but in the Desus Group we believe that most agree that, in addition to the knowledge and experience of managers and investors, it is necessary to pay particular attention to the regulation of this segment. The novel will regulate those parts that have not yet been regulated. Given the wide range of financial resources and very risky investments, it is appropriate to establish order over the marketing of products. Better supervision of the operation of alternative investment fund managers in the Desus Group is assessed as a priority objective of this novel. Surveillance is a key factor, especially when the marketing is extended to foreign markets. If the regulatory function is sufficiently effective, then the positive effects of the proposed changes will not be missed, as the fact is that the free movement of capital also means an increased supply of alternative investment funds from abroad, which will further encourage the Slovenian investment fund market. In the hope that the latter goal will be realized as soon as possible for the benefit of all beneficiaries, the proposed law of the Member of Parliament and the Members of the Democratic Party of pensioners will be welcomed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u25	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u26	Thank you for your word and once again a nice greeting to everyone on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. The proposal for an Act on Alternative Investment Fund Managers is extremely extensive, as it contains as many as 320 articles. However, as a result of more content and the proposaler gives the highest priority to the content or attention to the implementation of Directive No 61 of 2011. Indeed, Europe has been looking since the financial crisis for a way to stop the inability to regulate the increasing fluctuations between income and reality trends, as demonstrated by the increasing inefficiencies of the various investment funds. The path to finding solutions to how it is successful to regulate and control alternative investment funds, which include so many hedge funds, real estate funds, capital risk funds, etc., has been long and difficult. The very different occurrence of these funds has been a difficult asset in finding a common denominator in the regulation. In the Group of Social Democrats, we welcome the intention that regulation is not framed by the status of the Fund, but by activity, this is through the management of investor assets. We also welcome the proposal to identify new categories of investment fund managers and to seek new ways to better control. If control over alternative investment funds has already basically given the taste of watching where there is a great potential for different financial frauds, we believe that the proposal is more preventive for consumers of such services than for the funds themselves. However, the introduction of a European directive by means of a proposal into our legal order should not remain the only step on this path, for despite the scope and complexity of the law, many questions have also been raised at the warnings of the Legislative and Legal Service. The uncertainties and inconsistencies of the proposal, which have been technically eliminated to some extent in the course of the legislative process, can in practice prove to be a major problem which will be very difficult to follow in law again if we do not pay attention to any resulting gap in the functioning of these funds. Indeed, the fact is that these alternative investment funds are already in operation and that we are now putting them into a framework through which we will be able to monitor them more easily, but when legislation follows an already established state, there is a sinister taste that we are now hunting for something that was already very well completed at the beginning of the financial crisis. Therefore, the Social Democrats in this place do not claim that various financial funds are also responsible for the situation that all financial mechanisms are fundamentally poor, but we want this law, together with the Investment Funds and Management Companies Act, to separate grain from weeds and, of course, to be cleaned. We would therefore like to draw attention to the concerns of the Legislative and Legal Service, which, among other things, has found a lack of specific relationship between the legislative proposals governing this area, reminds us of too many references to the implementing regulations of the European Commission, the uncertainty about the provisions to which the legislative solutions are applicable. The ambiguity of criminal provisions also calls for consideration as to how these uncertainties quickly become prey to a variety of practices that do not have much in common with fairness and justice. In addition to this, let us add a warning resulting from a simple diction that these funds are for investors who are taught. This teaching, we hope, is not the search for an alibi for easier excuses in favour of fund protection. A proper balance of responsibility, by increasing regulation also as regards capital adequacy, by reducing the impact of credit rating agencies, should provide more control and accountability. After all, we have the power to see that different investors are looking for their opportunities quickly and that capital penetration is linked to an ever-increasing dispersion of ownership. This dispersion and the connection of the various portfolios can, at least to say the least, be unpleasant for such an educated investor. As it is said, despite all the concerns that this is an extremely extensive matter, we will support this law in good faith, but also with the hope that certain solutions will be made possible at this legislative stage.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Mesec will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u28	Presidents, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In its explanation for the proposal, the Government stated that this law regulates the area of risked investment funds, which has not yet been regulated. A representative of the Securities Market Agency said at a meeting of the parent committee that the Agency did not collect data on the operation of risked investment funds. This means that it is clearly tolerated to carry out an activity which is carried out in excess of all tax rules and which is obviously not taxed. If it is taxed, then there must be records on the FURS, so it is even more interesting that we are now adopting legislation to introduce a directive of the European Union, not because any of the governments would want to break the de facto illegal situation. Obviously, all governments have so far peacefully tolerated such activities in the legal void and beyond the tax system. Unfortunately, however, in the United Left we find that the proposal before us does not regulate this area in the right way. If I start at the starting point. The government stated in its explanation that "the alternative investment fund managers themselves were not responsible for the financial crisis, but developments in the financial markets also hit the alternative investment fund sector." End of quote. That's what I have to say. It's new. The real estate fund itself has created a global financial crisis and the financial instruments invented by these funds are the main causes of the instability of the financial system. Therefore, even after the outbreak of the crisis, there were a number of demands that this area should not only be regulated, but that certain dangerous practices and instruments should be banned. Unfortunately, we will not find any prohibitions and very few regulations in the directive that this law summarizes. Why is that, we can see if we look at the power ratios in the investment fund sector. The Conventional Funds currently have a total balance sheet of around €9,000 billion in assets in the European Union, and alternative investment funds have as much as €14,000 billion in assets, $14,000 billion in assets, not millions! This is as much as the whole of the European Union's GDP, so much capital is in these funds. And two thirds of this value is concentrated in Britain, France and Germany. All this inflatable, fictitious capital is now waiting to move into real investment. It is clear that the printing of money or the quantitative release now being carried out by the central banks in the US, Japan and the United Kingdom, as well as by the European Central Bank, will gradually devalue the financial assets. When that happens, we'll have winners and losers. The Blackstone financial funds, the Capital, which participated in the privatisation of Helios and Mercator, or the American funds Cinven and Apollo, which now buy Telekom and NKBM, will have their own hands because they will turn their fictitious capital, which will lose its value, into real property that brings profits in time. The naive countries, which unfortunately include Slovenia with the last governments, will remain empty. They will give up businesses that provide jobs, development and long-term revenue to the budget in exchange for having a few hundred million euros lower public debt, which, when the value of the assets falls due to quantitative release over the years, will be either devalued or devalued. As a member of the National Assembly, I am embarrassed by the adoption of laws such as this one. On the one hand, I see that today we do not have any rules of the game for risky funds that obviously can do what they do, even though they are the main culprit for the financial crisis. That's why my first reaction is that better regulation is bad than no regulation. On the other hand, I see how these laws are adopted – a directive is adopted in Brussels, the Government takes over without having analysed or adapted the directive to the Slovenian situation, and the Legislative and Legal Service points out the serious shortcomings, but ultimately the Finance Committee will hold a debate in five minutes, and the coalition voting machine will confirm this without saying. Just think, ten years ago, we had a country that ran a separate financial and monetary policy that avoided external imbalances for fifteen years and reached the GDP of a more developed country. If I had to answer today the question of the cause of the lost decade in Slovenia and southern Europe, I would say, the free flow of financial capital. The European Commission has adopted a directive to regulate this now, but in reality it is more about legalising something that was previously in the gray zone and has no useful economic function. We cannot therefore support such an approach in the United Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojan Krajnc will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u30	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. The proposed Act on Alternative Investment Funds Managers implements Directive 2011/61 in the Slovenian legal order. This law and the law on investment funds and management companies, which we are also dealing with today, are the new regulation of investment funds in the Republic of Slovenia. The transposition of European legislation on alternative investment fund managers into the national legal order will determine the conditions and modalities for the management and marketing of units of these funds established in the Republic of Slovenia, in another Member State of the European Union or in third countries. Control of management will also be arranged. We support the comprehensive organisation and establishment of alternative investment funds in the modern centre Party Group, as this legal basis will allow for, for example, real estate funds that may constitute an opportunity to start construction or develop a lease market in Slovenia. Alternative investment funds differ from mutual funds in the fact that mutual funds invest mainly in shares and bonds, while alternative investment funds are allowed by the law a wider range of investment policies, which allows them to invest in other types of investment. For example, they will be able to invest directly in precious metals, such as gold. In doing so, it should be stressed that these are more risky forms of investment, which can also lead to greater returns over the long term. Unlike collective investment firms for investment in transferable securities intended primarily for small investors, alternative investment funds for higher risk are intended primarily for professional investors. The profitability of these funds is higher, which also means that the risk of large investment losses or even total losses is much higher. The units of these funds are usually paid over longer periods of time as the premium is planned from investments in less liquid assets. Investment strategies of alternative investment funds are also very complex and more difficult to understand for small investors. This is also why these funds are intended only for professional investors who are able to understand the risks of their investments and in general bear the potential losses associated with these investments more easily, as they are largely dispersed in many different and diverse portfolios. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we will support the proposal of the Law on Alternative Investment Funds Managers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u31	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the amendments tabled of 20. 4. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Excuse me? Nobody?Oh, my God! Okay. Thank you very much. I conclude the debate around Article 6. I am putting to the debate Article 37 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate on Article 37. Since the amendments of SMC, Desus and SD to 156th and 160th Articles are substantively linked, we will discuss them together. I therefore put to the debate paragraphs 156 and 160 and the amendments of the SMC, Desus and SD groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Thank you very much. So I conclude the debate on Articles 156 and 160. I conclude the debate in full. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on the amendment today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 6th item of the agenda. I'm breaking the 7th item of the agenda. We're moving to 8. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on investment funds and management companies within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The proposal was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to supplement the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Secretary of State, Mr. Dronja Method, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u32	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! As already mentioned in the Act on Alternative Investment Funds Managers, the Directive on Alternative Investment Funds Managers is the reason for amending the current Investment Funds and Management Companies Act. The Investment Fund will be any fund that raises investors' assets on the basis of a new arrangement. The concept of an investment fund will thus extend to funds that can only be invested by professional investors, whereas today the concept of an investment fund is limited to funds that publicly collect assets; this is from small or non-professional investors. Investment funds will be regulated in two new laws, otherwise this proposal will regulate investment funds to be allocated to small or non-professional investors, while the former ZUIAS will regulate investment funds to be allocated to professional investors. This bill also newly addresses issues relating to the provision of trust services to investment funds that publicly collect assets if the trustee’s bank has ceased to be in force or has been withdrawn from the trustee’s management authorisation. In this case, the Securities Market Agency, as the competent authority, shall designate an extraordinary custodian from entities authorised to manage trust services. The proposal for a law does not change significantly in other parts, as this proposal transposes into the Slovenian legal order a European directive governing management companies and funds that collect assets publicly. As in the previous paragraph, I would like to ask that the Government, in accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure of this Assembly, propose that the draft law be considered in this session, since there have been no amendments to this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of Mrs Urska Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u34	Dear President, thank you for your word! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is held at its 8th session. 4. 2015 as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a law on investment funds and management companies submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments to the draft law were tabled by SMC, Desus and SD and by the Joint Left Group. The meetings of the Committee were attended by representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Securities Market Agency, the Association of Investment Fund Management Companies and the Legal and Legislative Service. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained the main solutions to the bill's proposal, stressing that this law addresses the issue of the management of trust services for investment funds which raise money publicly. European legislation is also partially transposed, with regard to reducing the overconfidence of credit rating management companies issued by credit rating agencies. Alternative funds are newly regulated and they are allowed to be deposited in real estate. A representative of the Securities Market Agency and a representative of the Association of Investment Fund Management Companies said they agreed with the proposal for a law that the regulation of both types of funds was more transparently regulated in two laws and advocated the adoption of both proposals for laws governing investment funds as soon as possible. Members and members of the Committee did not discuss the content of the solution to the proposed law. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered the amendments of the coalition groups and adopted them and the amendments of the United Left Group to the 361st article, which it did not adopt. The Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms. Marija Antonija Kovacič will present the position of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u36	Mr Vice-President, Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! The agenda has set out to greet you once again. Allow me to present further the position of the Desus Group on the proposal of the Investment Funds and Management Companies Act. The proposed amendment essentially summarises the provisions of the current regime in the field of investment funds. After the new, we will have a new definition of the investment fund in place. At the same time, two laws are adopted simultaneously, as they are almost identical substantive changes. It is common between the two Funds to collect assets publicly and to impose it on different types of investment in accordance with a pre-specified investment policy for the exclusive benefit of unit holders of each investment fund and investors are a significant difference. We are also further expanding opportunities for professional investors. We are pleased that the bill has been prepared in cooperation with investment companies and supervisors. This means a positive signal and a strong belief that the current regime needs to be further strengthened. In the opinion of our Group, reinforcement should be in greater control, regardless of the type of investment fund or investor. This also fully follows the very mission of the Securities Market Agency, which is based on the principle of the reviewed and effective market of financial instruments. There were no other exaggerated concerns between Members and Members of our Group. We are all united that more attention must be paid to greater transparency of the system framework and consequently to a higher level of legal responsibility for all users. At this point, we would like to point out that information to investors is also a key part of all distribution or marketing processes of investment fund units. In the Desus Group, we estimate that there should be no room for ignorance in these activities. In the Desus Group, we agree that the proposed corrections are necessary and that is why we will confirm the Government's proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u38	Thanks again for saying that. In the proposal for the Investment Funds and Management Companies Act, we find that it complements the content of the Proposal for a Law on Alternative Investment Funds Managers, which we have considered before this point, and both are mainly about the transposition of the Directive of the European Council and Parliament of 2011. If we regulate and improve the regulation of private investment funds through the proposal of the Investment Fund Managers Act, it is only right that we do so for public alternative investment funds as well as collective investment firms to invest in transferable securities. Since 1985, when the European Union has started with common guidelines on the regulation of collective investment funds, we have also followed these guidelines through the Investment Funds and Management Companies Act in Slovenia. Initially, regulation was aimed at a better business environment, which would allow investors and funds to have a better legislative framework. The directive also introduced the so-called Financial Services Passport, which regulated the cross-border operation of the Funds. However, until the adoption of the next directive, which covered the area of collective investment investment firms for investment in transferable securities in an integrated manner, it has been 24 years. The main reasons were too limited by the 1985 Directive, which prevented investment funds from taking full advantage of their development potential by laying down new rules on pooling funds and rules for strengthening cooperation between supervisors in 2009. This raises the question in the air why it took the European Community two years to see that investment funds, in addition to conditions for better business, need even more control over all players in the financial market, including managers of private investment funds. We are so reluctant to feel that directives and transpositions are too slow to follow the real situation on the investment business market rather than to take a step ahead of this business when adopting legislation. As already stated in the previous law, we welcome the reduction in the over-reliance of companies on credit ratings issued by credit rating houses and the regulation of the area of custody services, which proved to be a major black fox in the operation of investment funds during the crisis. Again, in this law, we draw attention to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which, due to the complexity of the law, has pointed out the impreciseness and difficulty of the law, which in the case of such complex matter could be an additional aggravating circumstance, which, in our view, could also be seen as imprecise and also related to the difficult functioning of investment funds. In fact, this law also contains as many as 533 articles. As in the proposed Law on Alternative Investment Fund Managers, we point out that the rules on the regulation of investment funds should not only follow the European directives blindly, but also at national level, in accordance with European legislation, they must co-create changes. And in the hope that we will also create these changes in the future in Slovenia, not only follow the European directives, we will support this law by the Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Mesec will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The increase in the volume of investment funds of all types is too disproportionate to the social security crisis based on the principle of solidarity. Public insurance systems are no longer quality enough for the whole population due to austerity measures and similar trends in recent years, so those who have this possibility to reduce pensions and the quality of health and other social services react with individual savings affecting increasingly risky investments. Therefore, the data that, despite the crisis, the value of the assets of investment funds in Slovenia is not particularly good news. According to the latest data of the Investment Fund Management Companies Association, the value of their assets reached €2 billion and €300 million last year. By comparison, almost the same amount was raised by the Institute of Health Insurance, €2 billion and €319 million. In the first nine months of 2014, the assets of the financial funds increased by almost 17 %, and the concentration of this asset also increased. In comparison, the level of health insurance contributions decreased even in the same year. The increase in fund assets is not as much a result of greater investment as the rise in stock prices, but this does not obliterate the fact that investment funds are now almost as heavy as health treasury. This means that public taxes are not capable of covering the income that is flowing, which is now flowing into financial investments; financial investments in securities are pushing out other forms of savings. Last year, the population deposits in the classic form were at about the same level as in 2011, and the classic insurance companies collected even less gross premiums than in 2008. The tendency, therefore, is that savings in funds are increasing, causing a lot of problems. In addition to the treatment of classic solidarity options for social protection, it is also important to note the spillage of the population's savings abroad, rather than investing in the Slovenian economy where the investment is lacking. This law is therefore controversial, as it expands the possibilities of operating foreign funds in Slovenia and will further strengthen negative trends. Contrary to the law in force, for example, the proposed law allows alternative investment funds to invest in real estate and units of other alternative funds, it is said that it makes it possible to chain financial instruments. Why the government decided to take such a step is not explained. The directive referred to does not require this very much, so in the United Left we proposed an amendment to Article 361 so that no investment in real estate could be allowed and no financial instruments could be set up. This type of investment is prohibited for all other investment funds open to natural persons. The government refers to the minimum contribution of those who invest in real estate or other investment funds as EUR 25 000, which is supposed to be a deterrent to investors, I quote, "which such funds are not intended for them". It's nice for the government to take care of the investor, but it forgets the public interest. If we just look at the real estate. Between 2005 and 2008, the value of properties in Slovenia increased by 46% and then fell dramatically. The real estate market is extremely volatile, it is a speculative market. By allowing alternative, risk-based public funds to invest in real estate and the real estate sector, volatility will, of course, increase. Just remember where the financial crisis started in the United States. Yes, right on the block of real estate markets and derivatives! It is therefore totally incomprehensible that the Government allows investment in real estate and financial derivatives seven years later, because if you invest money as an individual in one such fund that invests in units of another fund, it is a derivative. For that reason, it would be better to keep the old law in force. As with the law on alternative funds, which we have dealt with earlier, inappropriate solutions have also been introduced here. I must point out in particular the provision that operators do not rely on credit ratings without explaining what they should then rely on. There was no willingness in the coalition to discuss the amendments, so we cannot support the law for the reasons I mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Ferruga will present the position of the Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. Position of the SMC Group of Ambassadors. The new Law on Investment Funds and Management Companies regulates the issue of the management of trust services for those funds as well as the public collection of money and partially transposes European legislation due to the implementation of Directive 2011/61EU into the Slovenian legal order. What exactly does this law provide? Conditions for the establishment of companies for the management, conditions and method of management, services, management of investment funds that collect assets publicly, the transfer of investment fund management services that collect assets publicly, the marketing conditions of investment fund units and the type of investment fund that collects assets publicly and the conditions for their design and operation. Supervision of the management of these services is one of the main points of law and, of course, cooperation between supervisory authorities. According to the old ZISDU-2 law, only the management of funds that publicly collect assets is regulated today. After the adoption of the bill and the law governing alternative investment fund managers, the investment fund will be any fund intended to raise investors' assets, either publicly or from professional investors, by imposing a predetermined investment policy on different types of investment in favour of the holders of the single investment fund. The definition of the investment fund is therefore extended to funds where only professional investors can invest. The investment funds themselves will be divided into collective investment firms to invest in transferable securities, or short UCITS, and alternative investment funds with an AIS shortcut. The draft law will regulate UCITS and alternative investment funds that publicly collect assets, and the law will regulate alternative investment fund managers for other investment funds to be allocated to professional investors. The law regulates investment funds that publicly collect assets and thereby newly regulate alternative roof funds and allows alternative investment funds that collect public property to be deposited in real estate. In the SMC, we welcome the solution to the establishment of funds that invest in real estate. Why? As the real estate market and the capital market can be revived on this. In the world, real estate investment funds are being developed where they invest in real estate purchases, allowing them to maintain value or bring to investors, which is important. Of course, these funds can also help develop the lease market. Slovenia came into the construction crisis, where construction companies were also an investor in real estate and sold them later. As a result, the construction sector became the most in charge in Slovenia. However, by setting up real estate funds, construction companies can be made available to investors for which construction companies will be built, which is also important for the economic growth of the country. However, as regards the partial transposition of the provisions of EU Directives, the financial crisis has shown that management companies rely too heavily on credit ratings issued by credit rating agencies, without necessarily carrying out their own assessments of the creditworthiness of individual issuers. In order to improve the quality of investment by investment funds and to ensure the protection of investors in funds, a requirement has been adopted not to rely solely or systematically on credit ratings issued by credit rating agencies in risk assessment. Therefore, in the SMC Group, we will clearly support the law and wish it a happy way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u44	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Finance, colleagues, colleagues! The proposed law before us enforces certain inclusions of European legislation. On the one hand, this law will also ensure greater transparency, greater security for investors, greater transparency and, on the other hand, better governance. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have comments mainly on the text of this law alone, given that the law is the transposition of certain European directives, but it is not clear to the Group that in practice it is now being repeated that the laws coming from the Ministry of Finance have major comments from the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. In doing so, we would point out that the Ministry of Finance will ensure that better laws will come to the National Assembly in the future. However, we will not oppose the existing law itself in the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u45	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm breaking the 8th item of the agenda. We're moving to six. POINT OF THE DAY, THIS IS ANOTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE COOPERATION LAW BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENTAL CONGREGATION AND THE GOVERNMENT IN THE CASES OF THE EUROPEAN UNION UNDER THE REGULAR PROCEDURE The draft law was tabled by a group of 21 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. Anzeta Logar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u46	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Government, Members of Parliament! Our proposal, which we have tabled at the beginning of this year, touches on the so-called Commissioner's Article, namely, the EU law on cooperation in matters between the government and parliament, and defines that gray zone, which has led to the fact that at the time of the appointment of the current European Commission, Slovenia was not exactly a model member of the European Union, and it is likely that the coalition's decision to amend or define the Commissioner's appointment procedure has made a clear commitment also in its coalition treaty. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have decided that given that the appointment time has passed, the time for the next appointment is still so far away, allowing for a quality substantive debate to be tabled in order to table a proposal for a new law. In the first reading, we also made it clear that this is a proposal that we would like to find in the context of substantive discussions with the other coalition partners such an agreement that will allow for universal agreement on the proposal of the novel. In the debate itself, there have been some differences between our proposal and the proposal of other parliamentary groups, particularly coalition groups, but in this debate we have agreed on the matter in the Committee on European Union Affairs and we have also very much endorsed the amendments which the Committee then endorsed. The proposal to regulate this area was also agreed unanimously by the Council of State, especially in this direction, as we have found a solution together then, and I hope that we will conclude this debate today and confirm this amendment later. They say every school is good if you learn anything from it. If this proposal is confirmed and enforced, we can say that the Commissioner's school from last year is good too, so that we have settled the Commissioner's appointment process in this area and that similar complications will no longer occur.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the European Union Committee on the Affairs of the European Union as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mrs Dragoljub Benčina, distinguished colleague and colleague! At its 32nd meeting, on 10 April 2015, the European Union Committee of Affairs considered the Proposal for a Law on Complements between the National Assembly and the Government in matters of the European Union. In the introductory supplementary explanation of the articles, the representative of the applicant said that the draft law had been drawn up in connection with last year's unloving event in the process of appointing a Slovenian candidate as Commissioner of the European Commission. The procedure for appointing Slovenian candidates as members of the European Commission in the Slovenian legal order is not regulated. He further said that the proposed solution had also been presented to the general public and had come under general approval. At the end of his explanation, he further stated that they supported the proposal of the ruling coalition's parliamentary groups for amendments to Articles 1 and 2, and expected that the procedure would be used in a meaningful manner at least to propose a representative of Slovenia to the Governing Board of the European Investment Bank. The representative of the Government stressed that the Government welcomes any intention to arrange the appointment of a Slovenian candidate as a member of the European Commission. The objective is to establish a transparent procedure, taking into account the criteria laid down in Article 17 of the Treaty on European Union. She added that the Government considers the proposed solutions to be a step in the right direction, although the appointment of a member of the European Commission in most Member States is still under the authority of the government or even the Prime Minister himself. The Government agrees to allow the competent committee of the National Assembly to hold a hearing with the candidate for Commissioner, but in this case it does not hold a report and the opinion of this committee, as is the case with the hearing of future ambassadors. At the same time, it agrees that the final decision of its choice is explained by the government. In the debate on the individual articles, the amendments tabled and the amendments proposed by the Committee, members of the Committee generally supported the proposed amendment. The debate on Article 1 was particularly pleased to define by law the procedure for appointing a Slovenian candidate as a member of the European Commission in a multi-phase procedure involving the competent working body in the National Assembly. The Treaty of Lisbon has been repeatedly exposed, which gives greater role and competence to national parliaments. The debate on Article 2 was on concrete solutions under this Article and the amendment tabled and the proposal for an amendment of the Committee to this Article. It has been pointed out that the European Commission's appointment process is very clear about the European Union's democratic deficit, and the role of the National Assembly in this process must also be played. It was also pointed out that Slovenia will be one of the few Member States of the European Union to hold a double hearing in this process. This raises a particular question about what the candidate would really be interrogated, because at this stage he does not even know what area the candidate will actually be in, because this area is actually offered only by the President of the European Commission, when the candidates are already known and proposed for the choice itself. On the basis of Rule 131 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee adopted two amendments to Articles 1 and 2 of the Law. However, he did not accept the amendment of the United Left Group to Article 2 and did not accept the proposal of the Alliance's Group of Ambassadors, Alenka Bratušek, for the amendment of the Committee to Article 2 of the bill. After discussion on the individual articles and after discussion and vote on the amendments, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u49	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mrs Dragoljubi Benčina, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Government presented its opinion on the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in matters of the European Union proposed by the SDS Group at its plenary session on 6 March and its opinion on amendments to second reading by the EU Affairs Committee on 10 April. But let me just briefly summarize our main messages once again. The Government supports the legal regulation of the procedure for proposing a Slovenian candidate as a member of the Commission in that law. Our aim is in particular to agree on a transparent procedure, taking into account the criteria laid down in Article 17 of the Treaty on European Union, namely that the candidate is a national of the applicant country and is chosen on the basis of his general competence and commitment to Europe among persons whose independence is unequivocal. Since the beginning of the hearing, we agree that the EU Affairs Committee should formally play an appropriate role in this process, so that the Government still retains the power to submit a Slovenian candidate, such as that in the vast majority of the Member States. With regard to amendments to the second reading bill, the Government wishes to give the following opinion. We welcome the solution that the Government proposes only one candidate or candidate to be presented to the working body of the National Assembly responsible for European affairs and whose name will then be proposed to the competent institutions of the European Union. It is important that Slovenia and not the President of the European Commission decide on the selection of the Slovenian candidate as a member of the European Commission. We are still convinced that the internal procedures of the Government are not subject to the regulation of this law, the internal procedures of the Government are laid down by the Government Act and the Rules of Procedure of the Government. The bill should focus only on the obligations or relationship between the Government and the National Assembly on the said procedure, and we therefore consider that the reference to "in the regular meeting of the Government" is unnecessary. The Government agrees that the proposed procedure also makes sense to propose a representative of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Court of Auditors, since the Court of Auditors is also the only institution of the European Union for which the appointment of a national representative is not regulated by law. As regards the procedure for appointing the European Investment Bank's legal committee, we are concerned that the European Investment Bank is not a classical institution of the European Union, but a bank, so the designation is not subject to this law. However, with all due respect, allow me to welcome here the fact that the compromise amendment to the law under consideration is strongly supported by both coalition parties and most opposition parties, so the Government can support, regardless of the concerns raised above and in the spirit of compromise, the proposal of that law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Since the meeting held a general debate on the proposal for a law at its 5th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendment tabled on 20 April 2015. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the United Left Group. Anyone who wants to discuss it, please apply. Thank you very much. Please, Mrs. Andreja Katič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u52	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will support the proposal for a new law on cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in matters of the European Union. We have also supported the proposal for a law at first reading, as we assess that the procedure for proposing a candidate or candidate from the Republic of Slovenia for a member of the European Commission needs to be further regulated. We also believe that it is most appropriate for the Government to refer one candidate or candidate to the National Assembly and that the hearing is held on the European Union's parent labour body, since it is important that Slovenia is united and that it gives a single message to the European Union and not that the President of the Commission then chooses the candidate. In this way, it is also an opportunity for all Members and Members to attend meetings of this parent working body and, in fact, to ask the candidates or candidates questions on this working body and to receive satisfactory answers. For this reason, we also agree that the government is not then bound to this view because, in reality, it would be difficult for the government to propose a candidate who would receive a so-called non-trust vote in Parliament on the labour force. Thus we believe that it has been in practice or that it will be in practice. For this reason, we will support this complementary proposal on the parent's working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. The amendment that has been tabled seeks to make it possible to present several candidates for one function, which on the one hand is good for us to have a greater choice, but on the other hand, the procedure is very demanding, because the fact is that it has also found that at this stage the work force has found that we do not actually know what area the candidate or candidate will be proposed for, and when we have more candidates at our disposal, we are actually talking about something that we find difficult to predict, which is why I do not support this amendment. On this occasion, however, I would like to take this opportunity to warn all the parliamentary groups, because, in fact, this law is adopted by a two-thirds majority, that it is an important procedure to get the procedure for the appointment of candidates in the European Commission to be cleared, but an even more important procedure would be to amend the law on cooperation between the Government and the National Assembly as soon as possible in matters of the European Union relating to the National Reform Programme and the Stability Programme. This is an act that the government must send to Brussels by the end of this month. The National Assembly will only become aware of this, but we do not design it, create it, and I think it would be good to agree in the future that we will gather the Group of Members so much power that we will also submit this amendment to the law and bring Parliament into that process, which is indeed crucial for our further development and cooperation in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Any other wishes other than Mr. Luke Moon? Mr. Luka Moon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u56	Thank you very much. We will also support the proposed changes in the United Left, or we will repeatedly or constantly point out that the European Commission has somehow gained as much power on the European continent as it has across the sea in the United States, such as the Presidential Administration. But the problem is that there is a clear democratic deficit in the European Union. This does not only warn, say, a new left in Europe, it has thus become a problem that is already aware of the whole European mainstream and everyone is aware that all appointment and democratic control of representatives should be fundamentally democratised in the further construction of the common European institutions. Therefore, the measure proposed by the proposer to give the State Assembly the floor to appoint a European Commissioner is also, in our opinion, a step in the right direction. However, we have tried to make this step a little more decisive with the amendment, since, under the current provision, the parliamentary committee merely gives an opinion on the candidate or candidate, while the government is not bound by this opinion. It is said that this opinion of the Parliamentary Committee is binding on the Government about as much as a public opinion, and we all know that there are countless conclusions and recommendations from committees that are not implemented in practice in the Government. In the United Left, we therefore proposed the following mechanism that the candidate or candidate should not only be confirmed by the Committee or give an opinion, but that the entire National Assembly should be informed of a number of candidates proposed by the Government - say five candidates - and the National Assembly could give a green light, say, three of these candidates. The number here is arbitrary. The government could then choose the one most important, most appropriate, among those candidates who received the green light in the National Assembly. This would essentially retain, preserve, maintain, the right to appointment, which would continue to be in the hands of the Government, but would significantly increase the transparency and democraticity of the entire selection process by including the mandatory consent of the National Assembly. As I said, this would still be a small step, but this would be a very important step in the direction we want, this is a more democratic and transparent appointment of representatives in the European Union and the end of the democratisation of the entire European building. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Any other wishes for a debate? I'm asking you to sign up. Okay, thank you very much. Mr. Tillen Christmas, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. I would also like to refer myself to this amendment presented by the United Left. To begin with, I think that these discussions, which took place both on the Committee and in preparation for this Act, have been very constructive for my terms. We have also taken a close look at the proposal of the United Left in our parliamentary group, but in the final stage, even in my opinion, I do not see such a solution as appropriate. There are several reasons for this. So one of these concerns how many candidates would then propose to me for different positions. In this particular case, if we go directly to the Commissioner, we somehow disagree with the fact that the matter which is within the jurisdiction of our country - it is said that we send or propose one candidate and then this one is also appointed as a member of the European Commission - I think that Slovenia must send one candidate and not more candidates and then allow the President of the European Commission to decide who should be accepted. In particular, because I see this as some kind of transfer of the part of sovereignty to a higher level, it is said to be to the level of the European Union, which, given that it is not prescribed, is not necessary, and that is why we would not go into doing so. Furthermore, it is then envisaged that this appointment procedure should be regulated in some other cases. This is mainly the case in our case, when we talk about this some coordinated proposal, it is envisaged for the European Commission, the European Court of Auditors, for the European Investment Bank's Management Board. However, if we look at some of the other options that would appear here, there are the Committee of the Regions, the European Economic and Social Committee. In these cases, however, there are proposals coming from stakeholders and in these cases the Government has only a formal role to confirm, given that they then represent the interests of these associations. If we move forward, as far as the process itself is concerned, if I go a little wider. Twice before we had a situation where it was not necessary, we have now come up with a situation where it turns out that it is okay to have a formal procedure. That is why I support him to settle down, too, so the government is making a decision on this. Why, though, does it seem to me that it makes sense for the National Assembly to give an opinion that is not binding at the final stage? Especially because it is a function that will represent the European Union. We find one of our candidates from the Republic of Slovenia who we estimate has enough European consciousness, breadth and so that he can function within the function he will be entrusted with, also professionally. In the case of SMC, however, if we look at the last appointment that has been made, I think that somehow the procedure that would have taken place under this new regulation would have been somewhat similar. We can see that, at least so far, we had a kind of happy hand. We have someone who is somehow recognized, who also gives some additional value or recognition of Slovenia through work on an important resource. I think that's the way to handle it. So, I will not support this amendment of the United Left, but I will support this amendment, which has also been coordinated by the Committee on European Union Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Luka Moon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Actually, I'd just like to clarify one thing, because I think we're having a little bit of a misunderstanding. Our proposal does not go in the direction of sending more candidates to Slovenia and then the European Commission would choose between them. Our proposal, for example, could be divided into three stages. In the first phase, the government would propose five candidates. In the second phase, the National Assembly would decide on them and, for example, would select three candidates. In the third phase, the government would choose one candidate from this selection, and Slovenia would still run with one candidate. This is not really about the transfer of sovereignty, because we would still have one candidate and would still be elected by the Government at the end of the day. What we are introducing is essentially that, in the entire debate on who is the most suitable candidate for the Slovenian European Commissioner, the National Assembly is reaching out in a way to speak about candidates and that it can reject someone who seems inappropriate, but ultimately the decision is still in the government. With regard to candidateing for other functions in the institutions of the European Union, we propose to apply within the meaning of this provision. It means not by letter, but where it makes sense to use a similar democratic mechanism. In view of the fact that the National Assembly, as a directly elected democratic body, intervenes in the choice of candidates for these functions, we see, for example, as a small step towards democratisation and greater transparency in these processes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Any other requests for discussion? It's not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm breaking the sixth point of the agenda. I also adjourn the 7th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 13.30 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u62	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Procedurally, Mr. Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u63	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. On behalf of the DeSUS Group, I strongly protest against the Vice-President's decision to chair the meeting on the determination of the rest period after the end of the agenda item and the interruption took place for an hour and a half. According to the practice we have in the National Assembly, the interruption of half an hour after the end of the agenda was also announced. I suggest that there will be no more such, such long interruptions in the future, but if there is, even though some of the powers of the President of the National Assembly or of the Presidency should be decided on by the National Assembly by vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u64	At present, matters which are laid down in the Rules of Procedure itself are not voted on and are not referred to another matter. The Vice-President acted in accordance with my instructions, which are based on the second paragraph of Article 86 of the Rules of Procedure. If an emergency occurs or there is a situation that has not been foreseen in advance Yes, there is a situation that has not been foreseen in advance. [[…]] On that basis, I have made my decision as I have decided. But I can try to take that into account in the future, normally it doesn't happen, we always have half an hour. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u65	Dear President! We have parliamentary practice. The worst thing is when we just run her over and we don't get an answer for it, why. I would understand that the Vice-President, who has not even moved him for an hour and a half, and he is not even in the Chamber itself, has not said in a single word what these exceptional reasons are that he could simply postpone, under Rule 86 of the Rules of Procedure, which, of course, had all the possibility. Indeed, I find it irresponsible because all Members and Members of Parliament also have certain obligations that we normally plan in the framework of parliamentary practice. And now we all have to move just because we don't really know why. At least so much respect can be given to find out what the reason was. Were these international obligations? Or was it, I don't know – anything. Let's find out. At least that. And it won't happen again. Or let's just say that there is no more parliamentary practice and we interrupt meetings whenever the President wants, according to the rules of procedure. To know how to act so that we can organize ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u66	There were other obligations of the President of the National Assembly, which are also in relation to international obligations. I hope that explains enough. But I'm not going to explain in very detail what it was. The case was closed 20 minutes after 1:00, and now I think we can proceed. However, we can, of course, extend procedurally. There's no problem. Members and Members are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue to break the 2nd item of the agenda, namely the Proposal for a Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of the DARS, d. d., on credits and debt securities leased or issued for the refinancing of the existing DARS debt, d.d., urgent procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u67	Mr President, thank you for saying so. This proposed law will make it possible to improve the financial sustainability of Dars, which is also part of the debt repayment from the past. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we estimate that the proposed law will also reduce risk, improve business, improve the financial structure of the company and thus reduce the risk of payment directly from the budget or from the cashing of guarantees. On the basis of this, we will support the draft law in the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u68	We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to break the 7th item of the agenda, this is the second consideration of the draft law on alternative investment fund managers, the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 4. 2015, published on the e-club. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 6. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 48 votes against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups to Article 37. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 48 votes against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD to Article 156. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 48 votes against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 160. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 48 votes against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. I give the floor to the representative of the Government as a proponent of the bill if he wishes to make a proposal for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! In accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure of this Assembly, the Government proposes that a third consideration be given to the Proposal for a Law on Alternative Investment Funds Managers at this meeting, as conditions exist.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u70	Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the motion for a bill therefore proposed that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should have a third reading of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 5. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the 5.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The National Assembly will hold a third consideration of the bill on Friday, 24. 4. 2015, after the final vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Investment Funds and Management Companies under the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body made the proposal of the law inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u71	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In the United Left we will vote against this proposal, because the proposed law we have on the table is worse than the existing one. For example, it introduces that investment funds, which now have a balance sheet in Slovenia, as we have seen, can be as large as, say, on the other hand, the Public Health Insurance Fund. So here we are talking about funds with a balance sheet of over two billion euros and the law that we have before us is further deregulation of these funds. For example, it allows them to invest in real estate and financial derivatives, which on the one hand increases the volatility of financial markets, which is, last but not least, one of the key causes of the crisis we have recently witnessed. On the other hand, as the market opens up even more to the European market for these financial institutions, we are likely to be monitoring an even greater outflow of capital from Slovenia and an even greater concentration of capital at European level in the coming years. Even more so, in the United Left, we cannot accept the fact that laws such as this — if I am not mistaken — have more than 300 articles — are adopted in such a way without any serious debate in Parliament. That is why we will clearly vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u72	We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 5. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in European Union Matters under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled by 20. 4. 2015, published on the e-club. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 2. I inform you that the amendment in accordance with paragraph 3a of Article 3a of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia will be adopted if two thirds of the Members present vote for it. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u73	Thank you for your word. We will support the proposed changes in this law, but we will propose, or we will support, the amendment that takes a step further. That is to say, if the law tabled by the proposer takes a step towards the democratic and transparent process of appointing the European Commissioner, our amendment will, for example, take a slightly larger step. In fact, following an existing bill, the National Assembly would have a role in appointing the European Commissioner in order for the home committee, the European Union Affairs Committee, to give an opinion to the Government on the candidate or candidate for the European Commissioner. According to our proposal, which we are introducing with an amendment, the opinion of the National Assembly would be binding because the National Assembly would grant the Government mandates, for example, it should give a green light to the candidates whom the government would then like to propose further. This, on the one hand, preserves the government's competence to continue to propose a candidate for the European Commissioner and, on the other hand, significantly increases the democraticity and transparency of the selection process, so of course we will support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u74	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors of the Alliance, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Of course, we will not support this amendment, not because it was proposed by the United Left, but because even more stupidity is proposed than the law itself. We will be one of the few countries that, unlike the other countries, we will have to work behind closed doors and we will not be able to discuss something out loud, which is something that we would all like to discuss, because in fact the procedure does not run by the National Assembly; nor can it. In particular, we would like to take on a competence that is within the competence of the European Parliament, and particularly because we would like to discuss the role, a candidate we will not even know what task this candidate will actually be entrusted to the future President of the Commission. So, we will see if the polygon, if it can speak 10 languages, we will see if there is a multipractice that knows at least 10 areas, because it will not know in advance exactly what it will get from the European Union to carry out it, and we will do a show with something and the media with it, and we will not even know at the end whether it will even be confirmed by the President of the Commission. In short, it's a bunch of stupid things that we've done to ourselves right now in some super spirit, and you can tell us how we're going to do some big transparency right now. I will say that in a way we are getting tired of seeing the government's representatives nodding when we discuss and say that they are nonsense themselves, and everyone else is, of course, nodding, if that is a contribution to better and greater transparency, by which we will now choose in a new way. In any way, I would like to put ourselves in the role of the one who would decide the matter. Only then, my dears, will the European Union have to amend the Charter and there will be another procedure to be laid down so that we can talk differently. Finally, let me add that the debate has shown that with this proposal, with this amendment, if it is adopted, or even with the basic law, we will all have problems together, and we will have a headache. In fact, I would like to know who will be publicly discussing the so-called hearing that you would like to introduce by this law when you will not actually be able to make it public. And we will do this as we do for ambassadors, which no one knows about until the Government approves or signs by the President of the State, who will actually be the ambassador. In short, we're doing a theater where we shouldn't be.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u76	So we can vote or decide on the amendment of the United Left Group to Article 2. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 4 votes against 71. [[Four votes in favour.]] [[Against 71.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the second reading of the amendment to the amended bill has not been adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body made the proposal of the law inconsistent. I inform you that the law in accordance with paragraph 3a of Article 3a of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia will be adopted if two thirds of the Members present vote for it. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Sending Party of the modern centre of Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Nevertheless, I think it is important that we remember the troubled background that led to the adoption of the amendment to this law that we are implementing today. This problem has already brought further political unrest, instability, political games and washing of dirty laundry last summer, in the already heated political environment of our country. All of this has had an additional impact on the political reputation, credibility, lack of confidence in politics and in the political institutions of both our citizens and the international community, and this is entirely justified. What we are doing today is trying to prevent something like this from happening in the future in such a way as to spread the clearly democratic deficit that has diminished in this process of appointing European Commissioners in Slovenia. This is the role of the legislative branch in this. We have heard earlier from our colleague Jani, who doubts what the legislative role of power at national level will in fact do now. However, now we are giving her back the opportunity and giving her back the authority to report that she has been heard and that she is also taking part in this process. So, on the one hand, the new law removes this democratic weakness, the democratic flaw in the process, while at the same time what I would like to stress on behalf of the SMC Group is also the fact that when it is adopted today, I believe that it will be proof that if it is to be done. What does that mean? This means that if we sit together, we can look for and find a compromise with which we can work together for the benefit of this country and its reputation and bear responsibility for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u78	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors of the Alliance, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u79	Such a marriage is not to be adopted primarily because if we were to be honest — what we really wanted to achieve — we should say the following. Will the new candidate be decided by a political majority? Bo. As so far, only one difference is that Parliament wishes to take over in every way the task of the executive branch of power in most European countries. That's an essential difference. Of course, some refer to the Treaty of Lisbon, but the Treaty of Lisbon does not talk about it. We are only talking about relationships and some kind of partnership, not decision-making. However, the intention of this law is that, because of the agreements that have been proposed so far, if we call it what we want or do not want, because, after all, we also have a practice of how all the candidates for Commissioner have been proposed so far, it has always been followed in the end. We had a problem somewhere else. Not the decision-making system, but that the decision took place at the same time on one side of the European elections and on the other hand the end of the mandate of one executive. And here was the entire stumbling block, not a stumbling block in transparency, far from that, because the whole of Slovenia was following. Last but not least, the final fate and decision was decided by Slovenia in the last case, if this case has already been filed. That's the point! Not Europe. Therefore, this law will in practice prove to be ridiculous. Funny because Parliament will be discussing a candidate that we will not even know what task he will be entrusted with. We will not know whether he must be an expert in the field or whether he has the imagination of transport, or the idea of foreign policy, or perhaps of any other area, such as culture, and in the end we will get an expert who has worked his entire life on iron and will deal with health care. We will do so with this proposal and nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u80	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Nova Slovenija Group - Christian Democrats Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Let me say that New Slovenia will contribute its votes to the required two-thirds of the votes required. Yes, but we will refer to the Treaty of Lisbon, which in fact provides a framework in Article 17 and gives national parliaments more power. This is also the entire message of the Treaty of Lisbon. More powers, more power for national parliaments. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is, in some ways, an integral part of the European parliamentary system and, colleagues and colleagues, the process of appointing the European Commission is very clear about the democratic deficit of the European Union. The solution that we will accept today, I am sure, is a real solution that has already been applied to as many members of the European Union and works and simply states are no longer dealing with these procedures – what they do. Thus, we will be no exception, we will be a European practice first, and we will increase this democratic component when it comes to the appointment by the Republic of Slovenia of important representatives not only in the European Commission, as we have now set out in the final text of this law, but also in other institutions of the European Union, and we define in some way the democratic procedure for the selection of these candidates. We have pointed to this, namely, New Slovenia - Christian Democrats, already last May before the European Parliament elections. We requested an urgent meeting of the Committee on European Union Affairs and had a very good debate. Very little was needed to come up with some of the decisions that the Government would impose on the procedure, the democratic process of selecting a candidate or candidate for Commissioner from the Republic of Slovenia. Unfortunately, we didn't make it. It is true that the elections to the European Parliament may have been too close, although we then repeated the debate after the European elections. I also wrote to the President of the Government, Alenka Bratušek, because she also confirmed in her reply that the Government does not actually have a specific procedure, how to elect a candidate or candidate for a member of the European Commission. Our wish went back then in terms of greater democracy, because we wanted to take into account the outcome of the elections to the European Parliament, as is taken into account and has now been taken into account for the first time in the election of the President of the European Commission. The election result has been taken into account; I think it should also be taken into account when choosing a Commissioner from the Republic of Slovenia. Supporting [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u82	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party mag. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The Slovenian Democratic Party shall propose this law. We proposed it for a very simple reason because the situation in the summer of 2014 regarding the Commissioner's saga in some way exposed the primacy of a certain part of Slovenian policy, as we understand the appointments to individual important functions. This was probably one of the reasons why the coalition included this in its coalition contract. We decided to propose this law because there was no sign by the coalition to take this step. As you know, longer than we are from some problem point, the more flouting of that will after the change of legislation. That is why we have tabled this proposal, and I am pleased to note that in the course of the parliamentary debate, through committees and also in the dialogue with the government, we have come up with a solution that is acceptable to all, except obviously, for one parliamentary group that says that we will have a headache because of this law. But, honourable Members and Members, I had a headache on October 6th at a hearing that was taking place in Brussels. I would like such discussions to take place here, in the National Assembly, on the Committee on European Union Affairs, and then to Brussels, too many candidates who can respond to the important issues and issues that are taking place on the European floor. I am also pleased with the words of the head of the SMC Group to "be able". I reiterate that when an opposition party proposes a certain law, it can therefore be supported. I expect that the set of good proposals proposed by the SDS Group will also receive such broad support in the future that you prove that this can be done. Of course, the SDS Group will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u84	Can we vote? We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. At the end of the day, this is on the basis of a proposal for a law amending the Act on the Ratification of the Fourth Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Extradition. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the question of Members and Members. A review of the draft conclusions of Members and Members for the debate on the replies of the President of the Government, ministers and ministers has been published on the e-club. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Mesca, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question of Mr Mesca on privatisation and the amendment of the Slovenian State Holding Act, SDH. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with a vote of 4 to 63. [[Four votes in favour.]] [[Against 63.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Jernej Vrtovac, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to Mr Jerne Vrtovac's question on the preparation and implementation of the health reform. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats, Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u85	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian health system is full of anomalies, as the Prime Minister of the Government has also confirmed yesterday, and these anomalies need to be eliminated. Since we feel responsible in New Slovenia, we announced yesterday that we will also prepare certain drafts of health reform, and also because we don't care, we asked the Prime Minister yesterday. In fact, the processes of solving the problems in Slovenian health care are taking place too slowly, including under this minister. We do not get the right solutions at the table either, so it is only right that this assembly should discuss thoroughly when health reform will take place, what strategy will be and so on. In fact, as far as we are able to find out what is going on with regard to health reform within the Ministry of Health, what they are preparing – they are still talking and preparing certain analyses, strategies, but all of this is already in drawers. This has already been prepared by the previous ministers, only political will is required. But if the political will of the entire government coalition is to achieve health reform, if there is no political will, then everything is in vain. But I stress that health reform is necessary, or waiting periods, waiting types, operations and so on will be extended and this system, which is full of anomalies, will know even greater anomalies and will literally break. For this reason, I ask you to support us in having a broader debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u86	We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 43. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Ambassador, Mag. Alenke Bratušek will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question of mags. Alenke Bratušek in connection with the draft National Reform Programme 2015 and 2016 We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 44. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Mate T. Vatovec, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mrs Irene Majcen to the question of Mrs Mate T. Vatovec on the financing of the Solinary Museum. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 44. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Anžeta Logar will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Culture mag. Juliane Bizjak Mlakar on the question of the Mag. Anzeta Logar in connection with the collapse of the Plečnik cultural heritage. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 42. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Ljub Žnidar, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of the Environment and the premises of Mrs Irene Majcen to Mr Ljub Žnidar's question on the future dynamics of the third development axis. Mr Ljubo Žnidar has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! I asked Mrs Majcen, Minister for Environment and Space, what is the forward dynamics of the location of the third development axis road towards Koroška? The road connection in this part is bad. This area has been cut off by means of a transport link and this area concerns the pressing problems of both the economy and the entire population. Of course, I did not get an answer on the timing of the placement of the third development axis from the Minister. It is even more worrisome that I have received actually three answers: so Minister Gasperšič for Infrastructure on our Committee made a statement that this project actually stands; recently, the Prime Minister said on a visit to Koroška that intensive construction would take place in 2018. In short, I would say a bunch of different information, but I suppose we have already missed the financial perspective 2014-2020. This is for the entire Shaleška with a strong economy, which is in Velenj and in the Shaleska Valley, as well as for Slovenia Gradec itself and the whole of Koroška's extremely bad news. Since this concerns a very large part of the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, I propose that this issue be discussed in public, because this project is getting a growing beard and it does not even see the end when this project will actually see its implementation or that construction will really start. For this reason, I propose that a public debate be held on this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u88	We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 40. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Miha Kordiš, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the agreement of Foreign Minister Karl Viktor Erjavac on the question of Mr Miha Kordiš in connection with the lifting of sanctions against the Russian Federation. Mr Kordiš has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u89	President, thank you for your word. A great deal of today's European question, how to achieve peace in Ukraine. Some basic parameters of the answer to this question are known: a second agreement from Minsk needs to be implemented and implemented. In particular, there is a very important provision allowing for the self-government of the Donetsk and Lugansk authorities, including by forming its own militias to ensure order and peace. To do so, however, it is necessary to cooperate with the Kiev regime, the real ball is not on the side of the Russian Federation, and the ball is on the side of the Kiev regime. And this regime can be tackled by European diplomacy, if it wants to, if it wants peace, or if this European diplomacy is openly denied the support of the Nazi regime. However, that Slovenia can take such a position means that it is very openly opposed to the imperialist geopolitical games of the European Union or the great countries within the European Union and the United States. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Slovenia, Karl Erjavec does not share this opinion, but ties the issue of Minsk's success to sanctions against the Russian Federation, which is completely at odds with the nature of things, the nature of the situation in Ukraine, if we really want some peace. Such a political position of Slovenian diplomacy serves and supports the Kiev regime, its looting of the loud population, bombing, killing its own population, and indirectly, of course, supports and services Western imperialism. Such an answer, such a position presented by Slovenian Foreign Minister Karl Erjavec, seems totally unacceptable to us in the United Left, so we propose that it be discussed in the National Assembly. Even more important is this debate, if we know that the vast majority of our people, Slovenian citizens and citizens are opposed to imperialist interference in the internal affairs of countries by some capital metropolis, whether it is the Latin American countries, the countries of the eastern bloc or some other peripheral or semi-peripheral countries that are subject to the greed and appetite of the capital interests of the central states. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u90	Please, peace in the hall! We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with a vote of 4 to 68. [[Four votes in favour.]] [[Against 68.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mrs Eva Irgl, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Justice of Magi. Goran Klemenčič on Mrs Eva Irgl's question of integrity and respect for legislation. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group Mrs Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u91	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I asked the Minister of Justice yesterday whether an official who does not comply with the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption and who has proved to be corrupt should step down from his position. Of course, I asked about Attorney General Zvonk Fischer, who proved to have acted unlawfully and corruptly in the case of the employment of Mr Boštjan Škrlec. This is what the Administrative Court said, so it noted the supervision exercised by the Ministry of Justice, as stated by the previous Anti-Corruption Commission and, of course, the current composition of the Anti-Corruption Commission made this clear. At one of the previous meetings, I also asked the Minister about the integrity of the officials how he intended to protect the integrity of the judiciary in view of the fact that in the highest positions in the judiciary and in the prosecution, individuals who have gravely violated human rights, which are, last but not least, disputed and compromised persons, are individuals. But Mr Minister has told me that he cannot agree with my finding that at the top of the prosecution there is a compromised person, but today we have found: not only does a compromised person sit at the top of the prosecution, but today we can see that a corrupt person sits at the top of the prosecution as well, but this person is still in his position today. Minister Klemenčič said he did everything in his power, but it's not true, it won't hold. Minister Goran Klemenčič should speak publicly and request the resignation of the Attorney General. Then, of course, it is up to the Prosecutor's integrity to decide, but Minister Goran Klemenčič did not ask him to do so, even though we invited him several times, but he simply said he had done everything in his power. He also asked me if the officials who acted corruptly should withdraw from their position, saying that this was a case-by-case matter. So if you're ours, then you don't have to step down if you're being corrupt, but if you're not ours, you know how to act. That's why I'm calling for a debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u92	We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 48. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Zvonk Lah, the assembly will decide on the next draft of the decision.The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr Anje Kopač Dark to the question of Mr Laha's question on the protection of farmers. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u93	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! I asked Minister Židan and Minister Kopachev what they would do to eliminate discrimination in the retirement of farmers. In fact, from 1983 to 1992, there was a law in force where only one person from the agricultural economy could contribute to the wider or first class and all others, even though it was their primary activity on the farm, could only be "the second farmer". From 1983 to 1992, he could have dropped his pension bill just so much that in total years he fell under the "second farmer" and also has about 100 euros in lower pension. From 1992 onward, however, there were as many pensions as he had paid for his contributions. As those farmers now retire, retire, and now account for these years, I think that this discrimination should be eliminated and the amount of contributions paid should be taken into account for these years as well. Some have already done so in court, we believe that this should be removed by law, not that each individual must seek this right in court. That is why I would like us to have a broader debate on this and put an end to this discrimination.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u94	We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 46. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Bojan Podkrodška, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mr Boris Koprivnik, Minister of Public Administration, to Mr Bojan Podkorška's question on the rental of office space for the functioning of the state authorities. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group, Mr Bojan Podkrodšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u95	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Colleagues and colleagues! Of course, when we live in a time when we take much more from our treasury than we contribute to it, I am referring to the state budget, I have asked the honourable Minister how, with the premises rented by various ministries in the Republic of Slovenia, of course, the private-owned premises. Let me say that sometimes I meet in which municipality, when a private person gives business space to the Ministry for large amounts, on the other hand, we have in the immediate vicinity of these premises spaces owned by the Republic of Slovenia. I must say that this rent is a very large year, and I am sure that we could save a lot in this area, given that we face financial difficulties every day. Of course, the minister said he was also in this area. But the problem that I myself have found on my question is, whether you listen or not to his answer, it's going to take a long time. I think he even said that we would get a complete list of all the facilities that the state hires from the privates in one or two years. I am so afraid that if we work at such a slow pace in this area, we can do very little. I therefore call on all of you to hold a debate on this proposal at one of the meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u96	We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 46. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Vinko Gorenak, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Justice of Magi. Goran Klemenčič asked Dr Vinko Gorenak about the procedures of the Ministry of Justice and other state authorities after the publication of the Commission's report on anti-corruption related to the corrupt conduct of the Attorney General. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group Dr Vinko Gorenak
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u97	Thank you very much. My question was one of the most important themes of the past period, such as last week or 14 days. In fact, if the Anti-Corruption Commission finds that the Attorney General acted corruptly, all bells, including political ones, should probably ring in that country. The question was similar to that raised by colleague Eva Irgle. I should like to stress this, this important difference in how the Slovenian media space responded to this report as well as the political space, if you want. In fact, more important than the Commission's report on anti-corruption is certainly the final judgment of the Court, which said that in this same case the two gentlemen, former Minister Zalar and Attorney General Fischer, had misused power. That is to say, if the case is proved and if the case is final – i.e., this judgment can no longer be challenged – then it is quite clear that we should react in the way we need to help the gentleman to get out of this job. Let me warn you, since time allows me to do so, a considerable media fraud in this matter. In fact, the media say that this law has been amended, that is, the Prosecutor's Act, in that part of the proposal to replace the Attorney General with our support, because it was Barbara Brezigar. Of course, that's absolutely not true. In 2011, we passed a new law on the State Prosecutor's Office, which was completely rejected by the SDS. It is true, however, that this provision was introduced into the law by Minister Zalar, so this was his proposal and the coalition confirmed it. As far as the subject I'm talking about and asking for your support is concerned: we cannot agree on what the Minister of Justice says if I have done my part, I have demanded that the State Prosecutor's Council be declared. That's definitely not enough. That is why, of course, I believe that there is a need for a debate in the National Assembly on this subject. And I'm asking for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-04-21-SDZ7-Redna-07.ana.u98	We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 47. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Daniel Krivac, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Mrs Irene Majcen to Mr Daniel Krivec's question on the service on water and coastal land owned by the State. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 47. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Tomaž Lisca, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of the Environment and the premises of Mrs Irena Majcen to Mr Tomaž Lisca's question on the regulation of the airworthiness of Slovenian rivers. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 47. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm adjourning the seventh session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
