ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 14th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Jana Jenko, Ms. Ksenija Korenjak Kramar, Mrs. Nada Brinovšek, Mrs. Jelka Godec, Mag. Tanja Cink, Mrs Andreja Potočnik by 2 p.m., Mrs Janja Sluga, Mrs Anita Koleša, Mrs Ljudmila Novak from 17.30 p.m., Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik until 13.30 p.m. Alenka Bratušek, Mr Uroš Prikl, Mr Jan Škoberne, mag. Alexander Kavčič by 2 p.m., Mr Ivan Škodnik by 2 p.m. and Mr Jan Mahnic. I welcome everyone here. Before continuing, I would like to correct one of my statements yesterday, i.e. I have declared that hate speech belongs to freedom of expression, I should say that it falls under freedom of expression or that it is dealt with legally within the framework of freedom of expression because it is a restriction. In addition to this restriction, restrictions are also allowed in the legal system of human rights where this is strictly necessary in a democratic society, i.e. for the sake of the security of the State and its territorial integrity, for reasons of public security, for the prevention of riots or crimes, for the protection of health or morals, for the protection of the reputation or rights of others, to prevent the disclosure of confidential information and the protection of the authority and impartiality of the judiciary. This is the correct diction; so the error is "v", it should be "under". Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. On Tuesday, an extensive investigation took place against one of our Members, Mr Andre Shirtzl, at his home, at the party's headquarters and also at the National Assembly. As regards the investigation at the Slovenian Democratic Party, you are probably informed, there the National Investigation Office conducted an investigation and seized only those documents which were directly linked to the subject matter of the investigation and the communication between the actors. You have certainly been made aware of this in the National Assembly, and the police have also made a statement, the National Investigation Office, that this investigation will not be extended and that this is sufficient. However, you, when there was an investigation in the National Assembly, as a responsible person allowed the seizure of a larger volume of documentation than was seized at the Slovenian Democratic Party and as stated in his statement by the National Investigation Office. By the way, you were certainly also aware of the statement made by the information officer, who also said that, in her opinion, it was an excessive intervention in this investigation in the privacy of the Member and also of the parties. Given that you knew all of this and allowed the seizure of the entire documentation during the period under investigation, you have consciously decided to use your function to ensure that the investigation is also carried out in the part that has already been carried out on the party. Because there was also a seizure or agreement on the scope of the seized documentation, and here you have that agreement, that is, on the party and the statement of the National Investigation Office, expanded. This is also said to be part of the correspondence of Member Shirtzl with the private public, with another public which is not the subject of an investigation. It also occurred that during this period you made available to the National Investigation Office also that part of the internal communication SDS, is on this computer, and was not seized on the customer. In addition, Mr Shirtz was also seized by an official telephone, where all correspondence from the National Assembly for the entire period of his term of office and also the full correspondence of the party. In short, you have consciously decided to use this political role you have to enable the police to obtain that part of the documentation that they themselves did not want, according to their own statement. Given that this has happened, Mr President, you have exceeded your powers; either you or the police are lying. As a result, until this is cleared up, or at this point, we will obstruct the meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u3	Obstruction is always permissible. But I did the right thing, and I've already explained it. We're moving on to 15. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, this is to say, the proposal made by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to increase the degree of transparency and democracy of its operations and the functioning of the ministries. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members and five Members with the first-signed Dr. Mate T. Vatovci. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Dr Mate T. Vatovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! In the United Left, we have been pointing out for a long time the problems this government has with transparency and democracy. In order to eliminate the practices that the government and the ministries have been using all too often, we have made recommendations that we are considering today. Ensuring an adequate degree of democracy and transparency in the functioning of the State stems from all the highest legal acts, both national and international. Ensuring public participation in public affairs management is, however, a key element of democracy as such. However, for effective enforcement and the Constitution of the right guaranteed, it is, of course, crucial that the State ensure democratic control over the functioning of the legislative and, of course, the executive branches. At the moment, the supervision of the functioning of the executive branch of the Authority is particularly unsatisfactory, as its public performance is hidden and the publicly available data in its field of operation is extremely limited. The government and the ministries therefore do not provide an adequate degree of transparency, although this was one of the key points behind which the mandate came. However, the words of transparency can be found in the coalition contract in as many as 30 places. As a result, we have made recommendations in the United Left which contain six concrete measures to actually keep the coalition's promises. The first measure concerns the reintroduction of literal minutes of meetings. The closure was the result of an affair linked to the list of candidates for the European Commissioners. As a reason for the removal of literal records, the government has cited the increasing demands of journalists after their disclosure. Since such an argument is completely unacceptable to us and is also unfounded, we have therefore proposed that the Government reintroduce the magnetograms. The second recommendation concerns consistent enforcement and compliance with the legislative trail. This is what the Government has committed itself to in the Anti-Corruption Programme, but it has not yet done so. With this recommendation, we have therefore proposed to the Government that the information on which outsiders have participated in the preparation of the proposal should be provided in every single draft law that they submit to the National Assembly. With this recommendation, we have only proposed that the Government implements the measure it has taken. With a third recommendation, we have proposed to the Government to ensure that the opinions of the Government's legislative service are made public. In recent times, we have witnessed more and more times to get to the bench a law that, according to our legislative service, is nominally inadequate, but many times we can also hear a warning that an individual law is potentially contrary to the Constitution. On boards, we then accept a set of amendments that eliminate this deficiency. This, of course, raises the question of how it can be that this has not already been pointed out by the legislative service of the government, even if we do not see this opinion in the National Assembly. Since this practice seems totally inappropriate to us, we have proposed that the Government publish these opinions on the websites and thus facilitate the review of the legislative path of the acts. The fourth point of the recommendation concerns respect for the Resolution on normative activities. It therefore refers to the possibility of public participation in the drafting of laws. In this mandate, the government violated 59%, only in the period from 30 November to 7 December it violated 82%). We therefore have more than obvious serious problems here with respect for this resolution, so we suggest that the Government begin to respect it. The 5th point suggests that the Government ensure the public publication of the meeting of the Government with the relevant agenda. For the government publishes the agenda only after the end of the government's meeting. Certain individuals or interested organisations are informed of this, but only those listed by the Government Communications Office. Therefore, we do not see any reason why the Government, like the National Assembly, would not publish the agendas for the relevant material in advance on the websites. Therefore, the practice that has been witnessed in this mandate is all the more so than transparent and democratic. This, however, clearly points to the need for a debate and also the adoption of measures that will improve the current situation, and this has also been the objective for which we have drawn up these recommendations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u5	The proposal for a recommendation was addressed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. Lilliani Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u6	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government is held at its 14th session. 11. 2015 As a parent working body, the Proposal for a Recommendation to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to increase the transparency and democraticity of its functioning and the functioning of its ministries, submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Dr. Mate T. Vatovec. The members of the Committee received a written opinion from the Legislative and Legal Services, a written opinion from the Government and support for the recommendations of CNVOS, Amnesty International Slovenia, Transparency International Slovenia, the Legal Information Centre – NGO PIC, the Institute for Electronic Participation, Omanotere – Slovenian Foundations for Sustainable Development, the Peace Institute and the Network for Space. In the supplementary explanation, on behalf of the proposaler, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec withdrew his comments in the proposal, according to the proposal, the public's control over the functioning of the executive branch of the authority is currently unsatisfactory, as its public performance is hidden and the publicly accessible documents in its field of operation are extremely limited. He explained the proposals for recommendations to increase transparency and early inclusion of people in the exercise of the right to participate in public affairs management. The Secretary-General of Transparency International Slovenia said that they had already expressed their views in their written support. At the same time, he praised very good cooperation with the Ministry of Public Administration. The Director of the CNVO also expressed his satisfaction at the debate on such an important topic, which is also reflected in the Resolution on Regulatory Action, and added that a large majority of the proposals in the recommendation under consideration had already been implemented and that significant progress had been made since the adoption of the resolution and some steps were still needed. In the debate, the coalition Members felt that this was a process in which much effort, effort and effort have been put forward so far, and some important results are visible today. They are aware that much work needs to be done, and it has been stressed that, in particular, Members of the largest parliamentary coalition parties are fully committed to complying with the rules and drafting of good legislation. They expressed the belief that the government's magnetograms of meetings would not contribute to better quality work. The opposition Members supported the content of the proposed recommendation and advocated a greater degree of transparency in the work of the Government, the publication of government meeting magnetograms. However, it is important not only to prepare and adopt legislation but also to evaluate it. The United Left Group has tabled an amendment to points 1 and 2 of the proposal. The Committee did not adopt the proposed amendments; it adopted the amendment to the Committee at point 4 of the recommendation and point 4 of the recommendation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u7	I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Public Administration Boris Koprivnikar, for an introductory explanation of the opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u8	Thank you, President. Dear Members and Members! In view of the recommendations that are before us today, let me say that the Government is very well aware of the importance of transparency and the democratic nature of its operation and that some of the recommendations proposed again by the National Assembly are such that they have long been implemented by the Government. Government materials have been published publicly on the government website, and the agendas have also been published, and let me say that after the meeting of the home working body in the National Assembly, we have ensured that not only are they required but public agendas and links to relevant materials on the government's websites. In so doing, let me say that the legislative trail is also provided in such a way that all the regulations that obtain the so-called EVA number are immediately published on the Legal Information System and that these regulations also define who are those who participate as external members in the drafting of these rules. Of course, we still have many challenges in this direction, but we note that after comparative analyses Slovenia has one of the best regulatory arrangements for cooperation with the public and that we are of course working very hard to implement it consistently, which sometimes works more, but sometimes not so well. In order to be aware of the importance of public inclusion, we also demonstrate that, in any case, we are trying to comply consistently with the Resolution on Regulatory Action, in order to include the Rules of Procedure of the Government, which specify this resolution, specifies exactly how the rules should be drawn up and ensured traceability. At the same time, the Rules of Procedure of the Government also provide for exceptions to the rules to be adopted in accordance with the urgency procedure and to the rules to be applied in the light of the circumstances immediately. Of course, the General Secretariat shall also review any regulation it receives as a proposal for a hearing material for the Government, in terms of formal adequacy and the drafter of this regulation, and shall also recall and require additions if the regulation is not prepared as required by the Rules of Procedure, which is also summarised by the Resolution on Regulatory Activities. Only if the Secretary-General so decides shall derogations be allowed in cases where circumstances so require, otherwise all government fuels shall be subject to the verification of compliance with the Rules of Procedure. In doing so, let me say that the Ministry of Public Administration is already implementing a number of measures to ensure even better quality regulations. Last year, we produced a Handbook for planning and implementing consultative processes, conducted a national conference entitled The Way to Good Regulation. This was carried out in May of this year. We are also actively working with NGOs, especially CNVOS, which is very critical to the work of the Government, but at the same time they have very useful proposals, which we are trying to take into account as much as possible. Guidelines for public inclusion, early inclusion of the public in the drafting of the regulation have been developed. These guidelines are now clear, but are also practical enough for everyday consumption and it is particularly important that the rule is included after public inclusion as soon as possible. This is the key objective we want to achieve: that the public is involved at an early stage, not only when the regulation is already prepared in a final form and only minor comments are possible. Let me conclude by saying that the Government is a collective body, that, as such, it also decides and takes its decisions, but that there is a very dynamic dialogue in the process of making these decisions in a variety of ways – orally, in writing, with external stakeholders, within different government services and departments – that opinions are formed, broken and changed through this dialogue. This dialogue is practically impossible to carry out and if we insist that this dialogue is being carried out by the public, we believe that it would also have the opposite effects, as it would be very likely that informal forms would be created in this case, contrary to direction and a desire for greater transparency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u9	This is followed by a shift in the positions of the members of the groups. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Benedict Kopmajer is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u10	Honourable President, Honourable Minister, Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! On the Committee of the National Assembly on Internal Policy, we have adopted a recommendation to the Government to ensure consistent respect for the Resolution on Regulatory Activities and to respect consistently the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Government relating to procedures for ensuring public participation in the drafting of regulations. The Joint Left Group, which has also tabled the recommendation, has proposed the reintroduction of the Government's meeting magnetograms, the provision of a legislative follow-up to the public of opinions submitted by the Government's legislative service on legislation and the accessibility of materials included in government meetings. While the recommendations of the United Left Group are particularly popular, they mainly contain proposals that are already being implemented in practice. It must be acknowledged, however, that in some cases there is indeed a lack of implementation of the legislation already adopted in the field of greater transparency and also non-compliance with the Rules of Procedure of the Government of Slovenia and the Resolution on Regulatory Activities. We should therefore do more in the field of implementation of the rules already adopted. On the basis stated in the Desus Group, we do not see the need for additional regulation to increase the transparent functioning of the government or ministries. That the government has recently taken more positive steps towards improvement, NGOs also recognise. Let me briefly list just a few activities of the Government to increase the transparency of its operation. Among other things, although the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly do not prescribe this, the Government will include in the core of the legislation which is being transmitted to the National Assembly, in addition to information on public participation in the drafting of the bill other relevant information on potential external experts who participated in the preparation of the proposal for a regulation. This step also requires amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The government will publish only information on the planned rules on a single website, which means that the public will have a very early and long time to make proposals to regulate a specific area governed by the regulation. It will explore the possibility of upgrading the E-democracy portal in such a way as to enable automatic public publication of proposals, comments, opinions to the public on a proposal for a regulation that is under public scrutiny. Due to the unanimity of the practice of the focal points in the way in which cooperation with the public is presented, the Government will examine the possibility to prescribe the content of the recommendation on cooperation with the public for publication on the e-democracy portal with a view to informing the public and the legislator. Let me recall, there is rarely such a unity between the coalition and the opposition, as was the case with the adoption of the Resolution on Regulatory Activities in 2009. It is true, however, that at that time there were doubts as to whether the resolution would actually take place in practice. In the Desus Group, we believe that the commitment of every political authority and public servants to cooperate with the public in drafting legislation and to provide an appropriate time frame for public debate must be taken with all seriousness and care. However, regardless of the political colours of each authority, the basic objective of the resolution, which is to promote cooperation with the public, must be taken into account. In the Desus Group, we are convinced that only coordination, the search for good solutions and openness to the opinions of civil society, the professional public and also independent state authorities can guarantee transparency. On the basis of the recommendation set out in the Desus Group, we support the Government's recommendation to ensure consistent compliance with the Resolution on Regulatory Activities and to respect consistently the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Government relating to procedures for ensuring public participation in the preparation of regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u11	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u12	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Minister, Secretary-General, colleagues and colleagues! We have a long debate day ahead of us and the point at which we begin our work is the Proposal for a Recommendation to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to increase the transparency and democracy of its functioning and the functioning of ministries. In both the material and the working body, the representatives of the proponents pointed out that ensuring an adequate degree of democratic action by the State and the state authorities is recorded not only in the state's highest legal act, but also in international acts. The applicants consider that the supervision of the work of the executive branch is unsatisfactory, that public activity is hidden, that public documents in the field of its operation are insufficient. In particular, they point out that the Government should also make public the opinions of the Government's Law Services, and there has been considerable debate. Such a hidden course of action is not transparent in the opinion of the proposers. If the functioning of the executive branch was also changed in a way that would make more documents publicly available, it would, in the opinion of the applicants, reduce the risk of poor governance and abuse of power while at the same time helping to eliminate systemic corruption, unfair competition and the eradication of clientelism. Dissatisfaction with the functioning of the Government, not only enforceable, is generally regarded as poor according to the public opinion surveys carried out. In particular, this dissatisfaction is reflected in a time of general crisis, when the social situation is significantly deteriorating for the individual, and it is estimated that the situation is not at fault on his part, but is the fault on the part of the authorities, on the part of the irresponsible bosses who allow such a situation. We say many times that it is also on the part of the population to feel particularly uninterested in politics, even though politics interferes with all times of our lives, but active citizenship is awakening. The membership of the active population is also increasing due to greater accessibility to information technology, which in a very short time reaches a greater number of people, as well as access to information that we can obtain ourselves, is increasing. An amendment has been adopted on the home working body, as the President has already said, with which we propose to the Government that the Resolution on Regulatory Activities be respected more consistently. In the light of this resolution, it must also be said that it was unanimously adopted in November 2009. At that time, we told the Social Democrats that we rarely achieve such unity between coalitions, opposition and government, and warned that changing the practice that has been introduced into the system of preparation and decision-making when we have adopted too many laws that are not aligned, with a lot of confusion and causes confusion and a reduction in legal certainty, will not be easy. The adoption of the resolution was the first step in the preparation and adoption of regulations in cooperation with the professional and other interested public. Let me list just a few: strengthening the rule of law, ensuring legal certainty, protecting human rights and fundamental freedoms, respecting the principle of the division of power at national level and in relation to the local self-government of this European Union, respecting the hierarchy of legal acts, ensuring public, transparency, quality and regulation and could also include. Therefore, within six years of the application of this resolution, we can already make an evaluation of the implementation of the resolution. Let us find out where, when and how this resolution was or was not respected. At a time when, according to her opinion, the individual government had to take the necessary measures, the resolution certainly did not respect itself. At this point, I do not want to expose the individual government. In any case, we are assessing that the objectives of the resolution are duly recorded as to what we want to achieve. On the basis of practice so far, however, it is necessary to assess whether the resolution needs to be updated or updated. In any case, we must pursue these objectives. Allow me, however, to make the above mentioned point somewhat different. The objective of all stakeholders in the process of drafting and adopting legislation should be to indicate at the time of the regulation why an individual decision is good or why an individual solution is not good or acceptable. The success of the government should by no means be measured by the number of regulations adopted, and the criteria should be aimed at developing transparent and mutually coordinated legislation that would increase legal certainty.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u13	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u14	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! The effective implementation of democracy is not sufficient for the State to ensure fair elections and allow for a referendum and legislative initiative, but the State must also ensure transparent and democratic control of the public over the functioning of both the legislative and the judicial and executive branches of government. The government has the biggest problem with this. The President of the Government and the largest coalition party with him have stressed the importance of transparency, democracy and cooperation with civil society since their establishment, but their position has changed since their election. The functioning of this government is even less transparent than the functioning of previous governments, and one of the first measures taken by the Government was the suspension of the Magnography Meetings. Eliminating practices that have been known to all governments so far. That promises and assurances of increased transparency were quickly forgotten before the elections were first demonstrated in privatisation procedures, and the last of the wrong measures that had been taken was that the Government had tried to limit the right to information of a public nature. In the United Left, we are, of course, strongly opposed to such practices and experiments, which constitute a reduction of democratic standards and transparency. Transparency is a condition and one of the main standards that must be consistently enforced if we are to ensure at least a minimum of democracy. However, this can only be ensured through broad access to information of a public nature and by the proactive functioning of the state and state authorities. In order to achieve these objectives, we have made six recommendations in the United Left to the Government, whose implementation would lead to a rise in democracy and transparency, and with these recommendations we have not requested anything from the Government that is impossible. We have only proposed six measures that could be taken by the Government without any particular effort and would contribute to raising the level of transparency. Unfortunately, the Coalition and the Government rejected all the recommendations, except one. However, the arguments for refusal are more than convincing. For example, we have suggested to the government that it reintroduce magnetograms of meetings. It abolished them because it was supposed to receive more and more press requests to discuss the discussions at government meetings. The government and coalition of our proposal have not supported this, despite the fact that all past governments have done so, because they claim that this government is one of the most transparent. I'm sorry, but transparency needs to be demonstrated in practice, not just in language. We have heard a similar misunderstanding about the enforcement and respect of the legislative trail. Here, too, the Government's proposal, although it was written in its own anti-corruption programme, did not support it. The government is now supposed to respect the legislative trail, but it forgets that the information about who was preparing the law is erased when the government accepts it and sends it to the National Assembly. This is all before a democratic or transparent way of adopting legislation, since we do not even know who has drawn up the law. We have also proposed that the government begin to publish the opinions of the government's legislative service, and this proposal has not been supported by the government and the coalition. At the moment, while anyone can obtain this opinion for access to information of a public nature, the idea that the Government would do it itself proactively seemed so unheard of by the government and the coalition. The government has so clearly decided that its practices will continue to remain the only one that does not even guarantee minimum standards in terms of public cooperation and control. We expected the Government to accept these minimum recommendations on transparency and democracy without problems, in view of its pre-election promises regarding the general attitude promised by Mira Cerar. I guess we're wrong again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u15	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jernej Vrtovac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u16	Respectable, President, colleagues and colleagues! Let us first explain that in New Slovenia we support this debate, the debate on transparency and the democratic functioning of the government and ministries, even in the light of the implementation of the current Resolution on Regulatory Activities, which commits all bodies to its respect and implementation. We also support the proposal of all the conclusions, all the conclusions on today's recommendations, and we regret that the ruling coalition has not fully supported all the conclusions already on the working body. Let's make some starting points with regard to getting legislation from us. At the outset, let me raise the issue of the general overriding of our legislation. In many areas, it is virtually impossible to find out. Of course, we're not alone in this. The ministries and the government, which are the most frequently proposed regulations, should also carefully consider, in accordance with the resolution adopted, if any specific social relationship needs a normative basis and, if so, to what extent. We note the urgency, clarity and cognizantness of the legislative texts, so that everyone who is covered by the legislative text understands them. A clear text is an example of our constitution and in this place all recognition of the founders of our constitution. Many other regulations and laws, in particular pre-laws, are written in such a vague and complex way that the user needs help in understanding the norm. In doing so, Christian Democrats stress that prescriptions are intended primarily for people and must be written in an understandable and clear language. More and more often, we also encounter casualistic standards. In fact, when a specific case arises, which may be exceptional and may even be solved on the basis of another legal basis, let us remember, for example, the Somali girl, go to the legislative level and introduce some partial solutions into the system law. In doing so, we are, of course, interfering with both the fundamental principles and the very objectives originally pursued by the basic law. Legislative approaches also lead to internal non-consistency of the law itself, to non-compliance with other regulations and often to their non-constitution. At this point we must also point out the adoption of legislation in a swift manner, which is an urgent or shorter procedure, although there is neither a real nor a commercial reason for this. For such a process, it simply weighs the argument of the power of the ruling coalition and this has been happening more and more recently. The actual reason for the urgent or reduced procedure is therefore more often the delay of the Ministry and Government in the timeframes for the implementation of European legislation or the delay in the preparation of some systemic solutions, where a time frame for the preparation of such solutions is laid down in the legislation. Of course, the deadlines for the preparation of such systemic solutions are very often extended only after the emergency procedure. We really need to put an end to such legislative practices in the National Assembly. We must also stress the need for a greater role for the public, both professional and layman's, in the preparation of the rules themselves. In particular, here we highlight the preparation of baselines and the procedure for the preparation of those rules that only correct shortcomings, the mistakes that have been made in the implementation of each law. In such procedures, it is essential for the future Government to ensure the possibility of participation of all stakeholders who are confronted with the implementation of laws both on the part of state and administrative authorities and on the part of users. However, when it comes to new systemic solutions or solutions relating to the rights and obligations of a wider range of persons, for example, tax, labour, social legislation, the Government or the individual ministry must, before finalising the text, provide a public debate for those laws that bring new systemic solutions and then carry out the legislative procedure in the National Assembly itself on a regular basis. This ensures not only a sufficient quality of the content of the regulation but also an exchange of views and views both professional and political. Finally, I should like to express, as I would say, some kind of protest in adopting amendments and supplementing the Marriage and Family Relations Act. Indeed, we will vote on this in the referendum, but in a particular case, the law was dealt with in a reduced procedure, in which the general debate on the bill was also excluded. Of course, the result of such acts is also a referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u17	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, for her mag. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, President. Members of the Modern Centre Party welcome today's debate on the transparency and democratic functioning of the government and ministries, because we believe that this is an important content to be discussed in the National Assembly. At the same time, however, we must be aware that this notion of transparency and democracy are not uniformly defined, which means that everyone can understand their content at their own discretion and can fill it, as he considers it appropriate and, of course, we are also filling these standards from case to case. Where these two concepts apply to the National Assembly in relation to the executive branch of government, namely to the Government, the Legislative and Legal Service has made it clear that we must move within the rules governing the functioning of the Government, namely the laws and in particular the Rules of Procedure of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, before we make claims or decide in the National Assembly within our supervisory function, we need to focus on the principle of the division of power on the basis of which the Government is appointed by collective decision-making and responsibility, and in particular the operational body implementing the policies adopted by the National Assembly. The recommendations and explanations provided by the applicant do not, in particular, reveal what the work of the Government is undemocratic. Whether the work of the Government as a collective body is democratic or not, the members of the Government may speak, with a view to ensuring democracy, that they have concluded a coalition treaty and, in the event that they are treated contrary to it, is a breach of a treaty which has political implications for the offender. We believe that the name of the applicant is a good purpose, although it is somehow not in his habit to base his claims on newspaper articles, as he did this time, and at the same time to silence the applicable legal regime and also a clear communication from the information officer that the Government is operating legally and in a comparable manner with all the Member States of the European Union. In my mind, I have public access to the literal records of the meetings. With regard to the other recommendations, we note that the Government also respects them for ensuring that the public works as provided for in the Rules of Procedure are made public and that it has itself proposed the adoption of a legislative trail which has already been adopted these days in the National Assembly. The recognition of an improved transparency situation was also expressed on the committee by Transparency International, which praised the Ministry of Public Administration's participation in improving the traceability process of the content of the drafting of legislation on the legislative monitoring website. The representative of CNVOSP said that some of the reports which had been made by the proposer of the meeting were already being implemented. We therefore do not agree with the proposaler's argument, which states in the introduction to the Government's recommendation that the level of transparency and democraticism of this government and its functioning are not satisfactory, thereby violating the human rights of the people in public affairs management and increasing the level of corruption. Of course, we are aware that much remains to be done in this area. For this reason, the Government and our Group of Members pay particular attention to the implementation of the Resolution on Regulatory Activities, the objective of which is quality legislation, in particular with regard to the right of participation of people in the management of public affairs. Therefore, public participation in the drafting of legislation by investing in the legislative procedure in law on a regular basis, as well as public participation already in the drafting of the bill, which is also a prerequisite for the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to include a proposal in the agenda of the National Assembly. With regard to public participation in the drafting of regulations, it is clear from the available data that the number of violations during the mandate of the Government of Dr Mir Cerar has decreased by more than 20% compared to the state of violations in the previous governments. Members of the parliamentary group continue to request the Government after a longer period of time within which legal persons must be informed of the law, the requirement to submit sub-legislative acts to the draft law, while at the same time seeking to reduce the number of powers to delegate the legislative function to the executive branch. Much still needs to be done at a higher level of generalisation and also of deregulation. The SMC Group continues its activities for the public, open, efficient and transparent public sector, which is also our commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u19	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the point and the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate the fourth item and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? First of all, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Let us first round up this debate with the introductions before we move on to a concrete amendment. In some ways, we have heard from the coalition Members in their positions that the recommendations are already being implemented. In fact, what we have recommended in the United Left is not some malicious tampering that is based on newspaper articles, but it is a purely concrete solution that, as we have already said, is trying to help the government in some way to achieve even higher standards in this degree of transparency and democracy. However, I think that with this statement, in short, that the recommendations are already being implemented, we cannot agree, and these are some facts that are purely on the platter, if I say so. If we are talking about the first recommendation, in short, the restoration of the literal records of the meetings of the Government. This is simply not done because it is this government that has abolished these records, following some long-standing practice where these records were prepared and were also available. Now to talk about what this step is, is the real abolition of these records, something that makes the government's work easier, is also based on some very slight basis, if I say so. In short, the biggest aversion by the Government to this recommendation is based in some way on the fact that these records prevent the work of the Government, of course, and consequently on the information that can or cannot be made public. We know that the Government has this power and also this right to mark certain meetings, certain parts of these records or even whole records with a degree of secrecy, if it is of course in the interest of the part of the Government. The removal of these magnetograms, of course, cannot be based on the fact that it would be some kind of bar in the work of the Government, but I think that these magnetograms should be some minimum, some minimum of both transparency and democracy. This thing, of course, goes on longer. Let us recall that these magnetograms were discontinued after three months of the government's performance and, of course, the background was the story of disputed candidates or candidates for the European Commissioner. Of course, this is not just about, let's say, the government's reputation or the government's team, but it's also about things that are more far-reaching; it's about things that, of course, also affect the possible investigation of crimes. We saw that the government had a very quick solution for these literal records. It is true that the journalists have identified this, although exposed, but the 12th directive, which we have discussed extensively at the end of last month, has revealed that these entries, when they reach the quota of 20 hours, are deleted. Thus, audio recordings are also automatically deleted as on a server or wherever they reach that level for 20 hours, and then, of course, are not available; they are not available to the public and are not available to law enforcement authorities, which, in my opinion, is a critical point both for transparency and for democratic purposes, since such regulation actually allows law enforcement authorities to investigate, in a normal and in-depth manner, possible crimes. That is how I think this also represents a dangerous practice for all other state bodies, if the Government acts in some way as it does. Of course, this can also mean that other public authorities will follow such a course, and this is not a rise in the level of democracy, but rather the opposite. As far as the legislative trail is concerned, we have now also heard that the Government is already taking full account of the legislative trail, especially at the point where the draft acts contain external advisers. This may be true when it comes to government material, but when this material arrives in the National Assembly, we no longer have that information. The bill or any other act simply no longer contains this information, does not record who has participated in the drafting of the law and is also in some way lost or is difficult to access because it is then necessary to search for government materials if they are or are not published. Of course, this can be justified by the Government on the one hand, and on the other hand I think that this should be information that is in the public interest. Last but not least, we know what the practice of legislative procedures has been so far; in short, various lawyers, lawyers or legal professionals have been the ones who have drawn up laws, and then, in some way, through the skills they have prepared laws, they have also taught about the implementation of these laws, they have interpreted these laws, and, of course, they have served in this way. I would also like to touch on the respect for the Resolution on Regulatory Activities. This is obviously the only point that the Government also agrees that we have a problem, otherwise the government representatives state that the situation has improved in this mandate, but I do not think that this can be an excuse. I think that this resolution should be respected at the highest possible level, and that is why we should increase this too. These violations have been large since the beginning of the mandate, the resolution has been respected in only 43% of the cases and the fact is that only four of the 14 ministries have this rate below 50%. Most worrying is the work of the Ministry of Justice, where the rate of violations is 91%, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with 89% and the Ministry of Finance with 70% violations. In short, it is also a consequence of the very large number of laws being passed in the first year of this mandate following urgent and reduced procedures, which, of course, also makes it impossible for the public to participate. I would like to touch on the last position of the Modern Centre Party and the last statement that the Government is operating legally and comparable to other governments. I think it's too often a hoax; in short, we're comparable or we're acting legally. Of course, the law is a minimum, but I think we should as a society, and part of it is the government, seeking to achieve the highest possible degree of legality, democracy and transparency. Thus, we are not always able to land on a minimum here, but to try to go to the maximum; in short, both transparency and democracy are increasing and we are not staying on a minimum, because both European directives or our legal order are set, but we should aim to be ever better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u21	Dr. Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u22	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear Members and Members of the Government! As far as the procedure is concerned, if I am not mistaken, and correct me, if I am mistaken, you have opened the debate on Point 4 of the Recommendation. Since we will limit those who will only discuss what the open debate has been about, it will be difficult to respond to the proposals and the views of the proposer. In order to ensure some equality, I would ask you to either correct me, to be wrong not to discuss point 4 of the recommendations, or to anyone who begins to spread the topic – even though I understand the proposer that if he failed with all six recommendations to the Government, he would like to take advantage of the moment and also draw attention to the other issues on which the proposal for recommendations to the Government has been made – to agree. In short, either tell again or if it is an extension of the hearing to alert the debater, even if it is a proposal for a point or a point of debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u23	In this respect, there is a long practice which is somehow clear that a broader debate is also acceptable in the first amendment. I think this part of the debate was within this. But I would like, of course, to talk about point four. But you need to know that the amendment's not there either, because it obstructs this fourth point. Thus, I cannot act in accordance with what is a procedural proposal because Parliament's long-standing practice is contrary to it and I do not intend to interrupt it. Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u24	Dear Mr President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I will talk about the amendment; i.e., "consistently ensuring that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia operates with the possibility of a phototerm before the government's meeting." I very much agree with this, because it is very impeccable when journalists are squeezing under that desert, hunting ministers, some ministers are willing to make a statement, some are hiding, some are going to the building as soon as possible. I don't think that's fair to the public, and that's not fair to journalists and this profession. Thus, at least this should be ensured at the outset that the photo deadline is that ministers can or should give certain statements; what they will say in the Government is, of course, another thing, but at least that the public is informed and that journalists can report on it. Second, "which will pursue transparency and transparency and responsibility for the quality of regulations." I have debated here many times that our laws are too lax, that often Parliament's Legislative-Legal Service highlights what is wrong, even the Government has its legislative service, and I would expect that at least in some way this service is coordinated. And not least, I listened to the President of the Council of Justice on a radio call saying that many judicial proceedings are falling because the legislation is poorly prepared. Therefore, it must be prepared transparently and someone must also be responsible for the quality of the rules. Mary Teresa already had a simple man who had read the law, and if he understood it correctly, the law was true and correct. In our case, lawyers have different opinions on the same law, and this President of the Council of Justice said that the government and Parliament are also hiding behind such judicial backlogs because we are making bad regulations. In this respect, I even agree with her. There's something else I'd like to say about transparency. I would ask the Minister whether you are really in favour of transparency, whether this government is really about transparency – you said, as early as possible, public involvement in the drafting of legislation. And I also ask Mr Luke Mesac if you really are for transparency. In the case of the Marriage and Family Relations Act, you did the opposite. This is an example of how you act intransparency while at the same time requiring transparent government action. The government put into public debate the law and then this law did not go forward in the debate when we made recommendations, opinions on this law, but you accepted it after a reduced procedure, and now we have a referendum. Who will take responsibility for this? Who? Is that transparency? It's not.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u25	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u26	Thank you very much. We have already discussed in a very deep and precise way on the committee what is right and what is wrong and who imagines what is truly transparent. I believe that we have very different views here, and I believe that for Mr Ljudmilo Novak or for Mr Vatovac, these are two different views of what is transparent. Of course, everyone will cheer only for their end. What matters to me is the following: ministers and Members of the European Parliament go by the press and those who want to stop and those who do not. That's why nobody breaks anything. But more importantly, they don't have any desert, which is what they're in the open. In that part on the side, of course they are. What's more important is what they say after the government meeting. After the government's meeting, some people are going to say something, and I don't care whether they're magnetographers or not because they're going to say it all themselves. As long as we have this cultural custom in the Slovenian space – and the last twenty-five years is increasingly pronounced – to compete, who will say something, we have these things more or less arranged. So as far as transparency is concerned, I'm not afraid. But I am more concerned; we are all now dealing with normative, investment, traceability and so on; but really no one is seriously dealing with one simple issue, which is the analysis of adopted laws and how they are implemented, how they are implemented and what is really wrong. We are very short on this practice. Officials who are preparing new legislation do not really have experience or practice in reality, but they do more work on them, I will say, proposals for individual political options, the users themselves, how they are transferred, and how the second question has already been raised. Therefore, for me, the proposal made by the United Left is more useful in this direction, that this kind of warning to the existing government and all the governments that come, that much more needs to be done more at this second stage, at least in view of our place where it is really not done enough. Legality works: yes or no. I would say that the Government has adopted a resolution or regulation concerning normative activities, legislation and so on. Parliament has not done so. A lot of times Parliament has a problem itself, and I always say, when you read something else, it clears up before its threshold. Until we are within the legislative branch of power alone, of course, to settle those issues that are very important, and this is what the pattern of laws is, and this is most often what I see, that we all meet so quickly with newspaper articles – it is good that we have journalists, that we have articles, because otherwise laws, laws could not be proposed because this is the basis for the law to go forward. These are things that I'm more concerned about, because a lot of times because of some populist nature or some current momentum or popularity, in fact, we're always good at it. In the end, I'd say the following. Of course, transparency is never too small. Never. It is never enough to say that we quickly settle for one basic sentence, such as: It is important that it is legal. We know a lot of things are legal, but they're stupid and stupid, and that's absolutely not enough. That is why I understand your proposal more in the direction of discussion, debate, some kind of incentive, not least every time it stimulates every government a little bit to overwind and see what it really does. That's how I don't look so negatively at it, but you can see that policy is always to put down its pot. I must say, it is amazing that today, when we talk about normative activities, a referendum must take place immediately. Please, we have this on Sunday, not today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u27	Replica, Mrs. Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u28	Mr. Möderndorfer, first of all, about the desert. Even before the European Parliament, I've been out of the car for five years, and I know it is. I certainly agree with the important statements made by ministers after the government's meeting and the conclusions that have been transparently published, but the public wants to know what the government will also discuss before the meeting. I just want to say that it is right to do this with dignity, transparency, for everyone; both for ministers and the opportunity for journalists to do their job. That's one thing. I was talking about transparency, and because both the proponents and the Minister repeated, they stressed how important this is in the adoption of new legislation, I gave a practical example of how they did not stick to it and did not take it into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u29	Mr Boris Koprivnikar has the floor of the Minister of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u30	Thank you, Chairman. Allow me only to respond briefly to a few statements that have been made at the moment. The Law on Access to Public Information, which we have considered recently, has significantly increased accessibility to information of a public nature, ensured its free use, re-use and has made a significant contribution to the utility of information of a public nature for companies, including the public. Somehow I don't understand why, in connection with a law that has significantly increased accessibility, we talk as if we wanted to be accessible. I just don't understand! If you read this law, we've taken a big step forward in transparency. The whole discussion revolves around the article that was withdrawn to prevent abuse and this one has been withdrawn. I simply do not understand why we are destroying one important act that has contributed significantly to the transparency of this country, and we are giving the public completely wrong information, which is not in line with what has also been adopted in this Chamber. As far as government meetings are concerned. Government meetings are not public. Government meetings are public, the agendas of government meetings are public and the debate at government meetings is not public. This is an arrangement in force in the executive branch of the Authority in practically all European countries. If we want a different arrangement in Slovenia, then this is also possible, of course, we have one country that had public meetings of governments, and it was how to use a kind word, an interesting event every time these meetings were held. In fact, however, the decision-making and debate on the topics dealt with by the Government has moved somewhere other than to a government meeting. For the debate on the government's meeting, if it is public, is very limited and there is no open confrontation of interests, opinions, which are often broken. If you allow me, perhaps an inappropriate comparison, if a parliamentary party, perhaps yours, is part of public decision-making and if the public demanded that the discussions on the Executive Board of the party be public, then perhaps these discussions would take place elsewhere. Of course, they are public positions, they are public records, they are public documents adopted by the Government at its meeting, and I think they are perfectly in line with transparency. However, due to transparency, we must not destroy the process of conflict of opinion. That's two different things. Opinions need to be broken down and can actually change. I think it's important. But it is also very important for us, as has been mentioned many times — the quality of laws. Here we absolutely agree that we have overly complicated, over-regulated legislation. This problem is faced by virtually all European countries, so we have introduced a so-called SME test, which means that for every law that will be passed from the following year, we will measure the impact on the financial and bureaucratic burden of municipalities, state authorities and so on. We already have an agreement with the OECD to prepare the so-called'regulatory review', as they call it, that we will find out where those parts of the legislation that are reregulated and those where they are defective. We have adopted a completely new process of enacting laws, which we call a single set of measures to improve the legislative and business environment, which, from different sources, now defines the proposal in one place, specifies the institution which has to simplify a legal, sub-legislative act and also monitors the timing when this will happen. In the case of municipalities 22 measures, 11 implemented and so on. We are working hard in this direction, and if you look for cases where this government, perhaps even more broadly, this country has not been successful, you will undoubtedly find a number of these cases. However, if we are looking for a comparison of whether we are more successful than we were in the past, then we are also proving that we are taking this very seriously and we are also trying to improve the transparency of the process itself and also the adoption of legislation. This debate, if you allow it, I also accept as one very strong incentive in this direction that transparency must exist, that we must constantly be aware of and continuously improve these processes, but under the name of transparency we must not destroy the operationality of individual bodies, and this is also an important task to ensure that the government and the authorities in this country operate operationally and communicate freely and then stand behind their positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u31	Now he has the word "proposer" and then the following are in order: Dr. Dragan Matić, mag. Lilliana Kozlovich and Mr Marko Ferluga. Once we've exhausted this list, I'll open the list, and then they'll sign up because there's obviously enough debate. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u32	We talked about the Public Information Access Act on Tuesday, of course my opinion and the Minister's opinion differed slightly, but I don't think I even mentioned it today and that's not even the point of the debate. However, the fact that the pressure of the profession and civil society does not yet mean that the purpose of the government and the minister did not exist. As far as government meetings are concerned, we do not recommend to the Government that the government should make public meetings, either by recording them with video equipment or by publishing them live or immediately. It is the fact that we had a form or form of a literal record before, it is called a magnetogram, which this government has abolished. And it is not that this should now be a means of disproving the work of the government or of bridging these opinions. I believe that in the first three months of your term, they probably exchanged these opinions, but these magnetograms did exist and were working. That is not how I accept this argument. It is true, as some have pointed out, that we have made these recommendations with the aim of encouraging the Government and drawing attention to some points where, in our view, certain measures adopted by that Government may be inadequate or not working well enough. As far as the public or these records of the meeting are concerned, I think I will point out once again, there is a possibility that in those cases where it is really necessary for these records to be labelled in secret. However, these records have always existed so far, and I think they have not interfered with the work of the governments so far, of course until this unfortunate saga of the appointment of the European Commissioner has arrived, which is also, in our opinion, probably the leverage or reason that these magnetograms have then been abolished.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u33	On behalf of the Government, the Secretary-General of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia mag. Darko Krašovec. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u34	Thank you very much. It's about magnetograms. I would suggest that the applicant read the Rules of Procedure of the Government. It follows from the Rules of Procedure of the Government that the literal records of the meetings of the Government may be written without having to be, this is the difference between the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, which are the transcripts of the tape recorder, and the Rules of Procedure clearly give rise to what this is intended for – this copy is intended for the Secretary-General to prepare a proper resolution of the decision adopted by the Government and nothing else. The Rules of Procedure even state that literal records are not accessible to the public. This Rules of Procedure have not been adopted by this Government, and this Rules of Procedure have been adopted much earlier, and amendments to this Rules have been adopted much earlier. So it's not true that this government is the only problem. Maybe the moment was really unwise or reckless, wrong, unfortunately, times aren't always right when you choose them. But when I arrived as secretary-general at the General Secretariat of the Government, I found that the employees at the General Secretariat copied these magnetograms in the afternoon, that they were paid for it — for overtime work, and at the end of the day, no one would look at this magnetogram, read it. In fact, the magnetogram was published in the Government's information system, not certified, not certified by anyone, which means that in the final stage could also be written in it by the chef's recipe because he wrote it – and no one followed him to see what he prescribed, and verified the contents – I also found and additionally that the secretaries-generals before me, and I, too, never went to see it, nor did the professionals ever go to see it – I will never, I will say extremely, extremely rarely, went to see what the Government had decided, because usually doing it with other methods already in the session to know what we accepted. And for that reason, I found that: for the first time, it costs, and for the second time, it's not meant for anything. If this increases the transparency of the government, then we publish it on television and we solve it, there will be no debate. However, I agree that the Government must act publicly and must act transparently. This is a whole chapter of the Rules of Procedure of the Government. The government publishes all the materials it deals with, with the exception of those relating to the protection of personal data, other protected data and classified data; of course, you say for yourself that it is okay for the Government not to publish. And all government materials are published, these government materials are published at the moment that I approve them to be prepared in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The agendas have been published – indeed, I agree with you, they have been published back, it is said, after the Government has adopted the agenda, that is, at the beginning of the government's meeting, the government adopts the agenda. Before that, proposals for agendas were sent to the media houses and to all those who expressed interest, including the National Assembly, including the State Council. According to the Committee, I found that I had not thought correctly before, and I have already put forward a proposal, that these draft agendas, which we send to the media houses, should be published when we send them to the media houses, and that is also available on the Government's website, and that the final agenda is published after the Government accepts and approves it. Of course, at the end of the government's work, a published or accessible record of the government's part-session and all the decisions adopted by the Government have been adopted, of course, again with the exception of what needs to be protected by regulations and should not be published in public – personal data, classified data and so on. Maybe there's something else about sound records you say we're deleting. Yeah, they disappear after 20 hours. Before that, however, they disappeared as soon as the record was confirmed — as soon as the record of the government was confirmed. Thus, this Thursday the government addressed a certain matter, the following Thursday, as the minutes of the previous meeting are generally confirmed at the next meeting, the audio record has been deleted. No one could even verify that what was written actually holds. So if I go back to the cooking recipe, that some minister really didn't talk about how the bread is baked — if it was written in a copy or in a magnetogram because there is no phonogram. Now it's 20 hours, that's about a month to two months of government meetings. I speak again for the very purpose of what the magnetogram is intended for in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Government, which this government has not accepted, but has been accepted by previous governments. Perhaps there is something else about transparency in the legislative process. This is what we say how early the government must involve the public in the drafting of regulations. The fact is, the government is not the only one proposing. It is true, the biggest proponent I think is a 95 % rulemaker, but they are also Members, and of course they do not need to publicly announce who was their advisor in drafting the regulation. The State Council and 5,000 voters are the same story and there is no problem here in the Rules of Procedure of the Government. I know that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are being amended or adapted, and I propose that the National Assembly also consider such transparency and the requirement in the proposal itself or in the structure of how the bill must be structured in order to record these things. This proposal or this requirement is not currently available. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u35	He has a word, Dr. Dragan Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, dear colleagues, thank you for your word. In fact, most of the debate has already been stolen from me by the Minister of Public Administration and the Secretary-General, but I would like to say something about this subject, which is being raised by the United Left. The impression is that they come from some of their ideas on direct democracy, which is not really clear what it should be, and that they are trying to make these statements by the Government or the Prime Minister of the Government about the need to ensure greater transparency, to show in this light that they produce their ideals on this statement and then to politicise it. It is an impression that the United Left wants to set standards on the functioning of the Government and the transparency of the government's operation to the same level or to put an equation with the work of the National Assembly. It is two completely incomparable branches of government that each have their own specifics. This is why we also have cameras here, which is why the direct transmissions of the meetings of the National Assembly or the Committees of the National Assembly, because the essence of parliamentary democracy is that in the debates on laws and regulations there are opinions, they are breaking the feeling that there are also heated debates, and ultimately it is not the goal to unite around something. Parliamentary democracy is set up so that, at the end of the debate, votes are counted, opinions are weighed, and a law is adopted at the end. This is a completely different process with the government. We don't have any opposition there, we don't have a coalition. While the government, its representatives, come to a meeting with different opinions, often with different interests of individual departments, which is normal and normal, and then in the work process where these opinions and interests are confronted, must eventually be crystallised by a common opinion that the Government must stand and defend together. In this process, in order to ensure the public's presence, to create some kind of show in the sense of Big Brother, which is too often unfortunately the case in this house, in this Chamber, certainly is not appropriate, would impede the efficiency of the Government – as has already been said, this is no case at all – the decision would move from these public or official meetings of the government to other places, in another period of time, which would certainly not help the transparency of the government's work, but would lead to even greater reversal. There would be some processes that would be less formal and, of course, less traceable. As regards the magnetogram itself, it must be said that the use of the magnetogram, as has already been pointed out, is determined by the Government itself with the Rules of Procedure and is in accordance with the Public Administration Act. This is not about any infringement or abuse; it is just that some consistent practice, as the Secretary-General has said, continues. This is not a matter of newness or discontinuity, but of course it is necessary to maintain certain standards regarding the participation of the public at work itself, in processes and this has also been shown more than enough by both the Minister of Public Administration and the Secretary-General, that this is not a setback in this respect. This is, of course, the possibility that it is always possible to think about how this can be presented even more in public, how it can be improved through the government's official portals to various materials. All of this needs to be discussed by the Government and it needs to look for some better and better solutions. However, the debate itself, as was just set in motion, seems to me to be going in the wrong direction and trying to show the Government and the coalition in some completely wrong light, unfortunately in the same direction as Mr Koprivnik said in the case of a debate on the Law on Access to Public Information. So in this sense, it seems to me that over-representation by the United Left on these recommendations is more than evident, and I think it would be better if we took a more constructive direction when we discuss how public participation in the work of the authorities and its bodies can be improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u37	The word has magic. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. It is certainly right that we are discussing this subject, and I see that we are talking about two things; one is the transparency of the government's action, and the other is of course the quality of legislation. I think that with everything we talk about today about government, we are beyond the powers of the National Assembly, and let me explain why. I also told you in my position. In fact, if we look at Article 114 of the Constitution, it is clear that the composition and functioning of the government, that is, the functioning of the government, is governed by the law. When we look at the Law on State Administration, or the Law on Government, Article 21 clearly states that the Government is regulating its activities with its rules of procedure. Today, the National Assembly is talking about how the government should regulate its business. This is as if now, as we change the rules of procedure of the National Assembly, we have been dictated by the executive branch of power how we will act. As for transparency itself, what the minister himself had previously asked himself was why certain positive things were being eliminated. And I'm just saying that as a comparison of what would happen at the government. It would have the same effect, because once the cameras are on, there's a show. It is right that this is in Parliament, where the various opposition parties are and each one tells his or her opinion, but the Government is a single collective body; and we must be aware that we are based on a completely different principle. So much for that. Now, as far as the law is concerned. True, our legislation needs a lot of changes. All of Europe is faced with this far-fetchedness that we have. If I focus a little bit on this legislative trail that was so much talk today. It is for the sake of the legislative trail that the resolution on normative activities has been amended in order not to be prepared by external experts anymore, but to be prepared by public officials employed by ministries in order to eliminate this element of potential corruption. But let me tell you, from my practice, I find, all the time that I've been working in public administration, that we may sometimes be under-conscious in public administration, but also in Parliament, that writing laws are crafts. Not everyone is able to write the law, so there are also so many comments from the Law-Legal Service. Who knows to this extent the nomotechnic knowledge, who masters the legal theory to this extent and the legal science to this extent – tell me honestly here, even between us – that he is able to write a law on which the Law-Legal Service will have no comments? To a large extent, external experts have been able to do so. However, public servants are trained to do so, but too often because everyone can interfere with the standard, they write specific standards. There are no general standards anymore, but specific in a particular case, as is the case in life. But that's not the law. As far as public participation is concerned; it is right for the public to participate, but from this experience in Parliament – what do I find today? That we have an interested public here that only pursues its partial interests. There's a lot of pressure. The public at the end — the widest public — usually doesn't even look at the website. But these pressures before the law starts, they're extremely large. And let me just say a few examples, let these be local communities, let them be unions, let's not let anyone know that I'm not going to mention anyone needlessly. And then – what are we doing in Parliament? Instead of being critical, we say, because you disrespected the public, this law is not right. At times, let us be critical of this public, who strives to realize their interests. Indeed, not only for our society, but for the entire society in Europe we already find that this social contract, which Jean-Jacques Rousseau stressed and signed that we will transfer the power to the country, is no longer respected, but everyone sees very much of their interests in the implementation, is said in the writing of the law itself and also in their enforcement. Of course, the problem of the generality of legislation; if we write laws in general, we will have significantly fewer. But another problem is the knowledge of its execution, its interpretation. Here we have a great role in Parliament, as well as the executive branch of power, the explanation of the law must be such that it makes clear what the purpose of the law was, without in practice being implemented in a thousand and one ways. Since public servants are not capable or lack sufficient arguments from our explanation – because usually, when we look at explanations, they are essentially the purposes and objectives of the law – then there is a need for some additional interpretation by the ministries with internal instructions, which I also think is a mistake, which has been happening all the time, because the executive branch of the government interprets what the legislator intended, but it must not do so. This can only be done by the legislator with a mandatory explanation, unless it is clear what a provision was intended for. Similarly, in the past and even today, legislation is still very often complemented by sub-laws. Huge regulations, a lot of regulations, and it was forgotten that only exceptionally can the government and also explain why it should grant legislative rights. The government itself cannot directly regulate the external relations that Parliament must regulate but it is not the problem of this government, it does not misunderstand me, it has allowed all these years to happen, and it is very difficult to come back to what the resolution on normative activities requires. It is true, however, that it has been adopted precisely with a view to improving this situation. As far as it goes, only two more things would happen, as previously said, that this government is huge or that most of the procedures are given by emergency procedure. The figures show otherwise; of the 196 bills passed in Parliament, 51 were made following an emergency procedure, and I am aware that this was last year, when we took over At the beginning of the mandate, of course, we had to make certain arrangements; today, urgent procedures are extremely few. [[…]] Before that, the talk on the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, and not specifically about it, but also on the working body, was said to be true that even when the opposition makes laws, it respects public participation. Also mentioned was the Law on Minimum Wages, which we know to have considerable effects. In fact, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly state that when the opposition introduces the law or when the electorate submits it, there is no need for respect for the public. Well, civil society has also said that it is right that even in such a case public participation is necessary, so it is possible to consider amending the rules of procedure in this case, and to set out some mechanisms, how every law must not only be government, but totally every law proposal through public opinion. For in this way it is likely that many unnecessary discussions here in the National Assembly would be avoided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u39	Mr. Marko Ferruga has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. As regards the proposal for a recommendation by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to increase the level of transparency and democracy, it must be said that I see it as a positive call to the Government, to try to find all those things that have not been settled so far, to try to regulate themselves and to see how this transparency, which is undoubtedly needed in democracy, is somehow further demonstrated. The second problem I have with this recommendation, however, is the perception of democracy and the involvement of the public, society, if you want, which in Slovenia is an extremely stretching concept. Everyone wants to be involved in everything, regardless of whether they're invited, they're invited, they get to know each other, and they all want to have some part of it. I must admit that I am alone in that the government's public and transparent work has also been published and that there is a clear and visible picture of this work everywhere. However, I see a major problem in this, namely trust or mistrust in the work of the Government. This is probably one of all these previous practices that have been here in Slovenia in recent years. But we all forget that every government that has so far been established has its own rules of procedure. The way the government works and manages is to a large extent its domain and its responsibility. If we are talking specifically about this point 4 and these proposals made by the SDS gentlemen, if the time frame will help make this government more transparent – I don't know. I think it's funny, since we have the opportunity to take pictures at press conferences, they can take pictures at the front door wherever they can take pictures. Ministers are so public that journalists can knock on their sleeves and paint them and give them some statements, which they are already doing. As far as magnetograms are concerned, whether they are necessary or not. I think it's essential that when the government finishes its meeting, it enters its conclusions. These decisions are binding and, in fact, they must be followed by all ministers in the Government. If we're talking about how this is going to be, whether it's being recorded or not, I think it's funny, because it's actually within the government's operation. We're somehow forcing everything to be involved in every matter I think makes no sense. The government has been set up to ensure that governments agree within this circle and the government's meetings, and then those measures that are — what the Secretary-General has already said — are published and publicly known. And that's what they're after. If I am finished, in the final stage the government will be responsible for its actions, both morally and criminally. In the final stage, citizens and citizens, or voters and voters, as well as political parties, will punish or reward the Government for its work or work. Here we need to be clear that if we understand this transparency and transparency, as we understand this democracy, we will come from that main focus, which is that the Government is working smoothly, that it clearly defines its views and that it also clearly expresses them and says them at every step. Another issue is when we talk about this piece of legislation, as my predecessors have said before, we have two aspects; this aspect, where it is already clear who has been involved and what we already have in the National Assembly is a debate on various legislation, and the other is when somehow individual spheres of interest are trying to influence the functioning of the law. Here I think that there should be – and the Minister of Public Administration has mentioned earlier – that there will also be a focus on the further work of this government, that even in these segments, which are some other grey foxes, is actually trying to find this trail, is a paper trail and who has been involved in all these matters. This is also intended for this form for the public publication of the report on cooperation with the public, as I have understood in the Government's position, and this is just to say hello. It is therefore necessary to move forward in the direction of transparency not only for legislation, but for all these procedures that are preliminary, and thus, clearly, the Government will also have a more transparent functioning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u41	Anybody else want to discuss this? Now I'm opening the list. Please sign in. The word is Luke the Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. Nice hello to you all! Given that a lot of questions have arisen, why we have formulated these recommendations in the United Left, I may first answer that. We live in a country that is constitutionally democratic and in a democratic state that is supposed to act in the public interest. This means that all three branches of government must be legislative, executive and judicial, transparent, supervised by the public and that the processes under way must be public and accessible to the public. This is difficult if the meetings are hidden, it is difficult if the legislative processes are clouded, it is difficult if not even the MPs in the National Assembly, for example, we cannot access the data of who participated in the drafting of the law, unless we know what interests they had in the drafting of any law, unless we know how the ministers in the government have said about this law, unless we know what the Government's legislative and legal service has said about this law. These are very specific problems that, say, I, as a Member in my work, am faced with. Here I will stress once again that we do not only have the legislator's functions, but we have Members, in general the opposition, also the power control function; it is said that the legislative branch of power is the one that controls the executive branch of power at the same time. Here we cannot agree with the opinion previously expressed by Mrs Kozlovich that it would be as if we were trying to interfere with the work of the Government as if the executive branch were involved in the work of the National Assembly, because by definition the executive branch of the government is subordinated to the legislative branch. We are the ones who make the government and not the other way around; when we are elected Members, we appoint a government, or most of us appoint a government, and therefore we have the responsibility to control this government. Otherwise, we have not designed dictatorships or government regulations, we have made simple recommendations, it is said, that we have formulated proposals that the Government should take into account in its work. These proposals are quite simple. It's just that we'd like to have access to magnetogram meetings, even when it comes to issues of concern. I mean, because it's just the drive, why the magnetograms were cut off, but it clearly shows an interest after these magnetograms were stopped. Even though, as the Secretary explained earlier, they were, in the first place, to assist the Secretary-General of the Government in preparing the minutes, you are obviously concerned, even after that episode with the unfortunate appointment of a candidate for Commissioner of the European Commission, that such matters or that the opinions expressed at these government meetings should be made public. Here again I ask myself, when I heard a few speakers, that the public of these meetings, the public of the performances at these meetings, or that people get a glimpse of magnetograms, could destroy the controversy of these meetings, or that these substantive sessions would become meaningless. I don't agree with this because I don't imagine why anyone would think, I also now know that someone is writing a magnetogram of what I'm saying, but because of this I'm no less controversial, no less honest I'm not speaking simply because I have nothing to hide. [[…]] Because I have no minor purpose in my implementation, because there is no interest behind me that should not stand in my implementation, and I imagine that ministers in the government do not have the same purpose if we do not discuss how we are going to get past the legislation, I don't know, distribute money or anything like that, then I don't see the problem of why someone would feel threatened by this because some record is written about its implementation. So much for magnetograms. Then it's about the legislative trail. The problem I have in modern society is that the authorities are increasingly moving away from the people, not only in the European Union, where this is the most problematic, but also in the countries themselves, that laws are being prepared more after discussions with lobbyists than in the competent institutions, it is said that laws are being prepared in cooperation with external colleagues, that laws are being prepared in cooperation with external interests, and it is therefore necessary for society or at least the legislative branch of the government to have an insight into who has been involved in these laws, because it will then be clear which interests are involved and we will also be able to read substantially more information about the legislative proposals that the Government is presenting to us. If we do not have this, however, a fog is created in the circle together, and ultimately it is only harmful for the executive branch, because it is justified to create in society a feeling that a country has stolen from them, that people and citizens have no influence on decision-making, that laws are being prepared more in towers than in Parliament, that they are all combined with corruption and clientelism. Such an opinion is currently both about the National Assembly and about governments, not just in this one, but in public. If we want to deal with such a public opinion and turn it around, we will have to show by our example that we have nothing to hide; that we are prepared to act transparently and that we are willing to sacrifice and act in the public interest. The steps taken by the Government by their actions are unfortunately going in the wrong direction. We have formulated these recommendations in order to turn the direction in order to start talking again about how we will bring power closer to the people, and one of the conditions for this or the first condition we need to meet is transparency. The recommendations that we have formulated are not substantively difficult, it is easy to make references to meetings, the right agenda, published in advance. We do not know why the problem would even be if the Government were to put this on its website, that the public - or those who want to know it - were informed in advance of what would be discussed at a government meeting; that the government's magnetograms of meetings were being written, it is said that we could possibly have access to the fact that we know what a minister's opinion on this and this bill was when they discussed it in the government; that a legislative trail is being established, it is said that we will see who was involved in the drafting of a law, that we will understand more clearly what the interests of this law are. There may be another anecdotes in the legislative trail. On Tuesday, I attended a debate at the Faculty of Economics, where we also discussed how capital in today's society is at the head of state. One of the participants who introduced herself did not tell which Slovenian company she was working in, but said that she was a manager in a larger Slovenian company, and she presented the problem of capital superiority over the country in this way. She said, "Do you know what the problem is? The problem is that the state is no longer the one, or officials are no longer the ones with the main initiative in preparing legislative initiatives, but many times what we ourselves say is that a company, a large company, a multinational, turns to the state and speaks to it in one way or another to draw up a law that goes to its advantage." If we had a legal trail, we would see that this was happening — because there is nothing wrong with it in itself, but we need to know, and the other stakeholders involved must be involved. That's why this thing is so pertinent. Let me slowly move on to the conclusion. The proposals we have drawn up are quite simple to implement. They have recommended to the Government, it is said, that the Government will be able to implement them to the extent that they seem meaningful. However, there is no way that they are radical and are in any way contrary to some of the general interests or general policies that the government coalition, in particular the ruling party, has advocated before the elections. Let me conclude with a 2010 quote by Mira Cerar in a column entitled Media and Access to Public Information – I quote: "Research and experience prove that it brings greater accessibility to information of a public nature to less corrupt public authority. The more public and transparent the work of public authorities and institutions, the less it is possible for officials and staff of these authorities and institutions to take advantage of public funds in unacceptable ways, to act in a discriminatory or politically biased manner, to cheat the country for the benefit of their relatives, friends or acquaintances. All of this undoubtedly speaks for the sake of regulation, which allows and commands broad transparency in the functioning of the public sphere." I couldn't agree more! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u43	There's another mag. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u44	Thank you, President. It would only briefly replicate what was said about the supervisory function of the National Assembly. I absolutely agree that there is a supervisory function over the executive branch of power, and I can agree with the rest of the debate. But I just want to explain because I wasn't properly understood here. What I wanted to say is that the supervisory function of the National Assembly is also moving within the legal order. Therefore, the rule of law must be respected, and in this case I have set out two rules determining to what extent the National Assembly may interfere with the functioning of the executive branch. Of course, it is recommended that the Rules of Procedure be arranged differently, on the spot. However, the claim that the work of the Government is untransparent, illegal, that there is corruption, that the Government feels threatened by this and that these claims are absolutely not in place. However, I agree that the recommendation can be adopted by the Government and that the rules of procedure are substantially different. If the government changes its rules of procedure, it changes it because it wants to do a different and better job. This does not mean that she is at risk of being corrupt in the back. This is what I do not agree with, what we are stressing here today, so much in advance and we are also creating such a public opinion. This does not only apply to ministers, but also to politicians, that as soon as we are politicians we are corrupt. This is where we do the damage to ourselves if we do it. Of course, I understand that the opposition must do so, but it is right that we are worthy of our statements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u45	I have another report, this is Dr. Mitja Horvat. Anybody else want to sign up? [[No, no, ……]] I give my word to Dr. Mitja Horvati.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Greetings again to the government representatives! Dear Members and Members! In the beginning, I implied, and the motioner gave a little warning. Because he didn't follow a slight hint, I can't help but take a substantive stand against the obvious and even to act. The fourth point and the amendment proposed to point 4 of the Recommendation refer to the Resolution on Regulatory Activities. Unfortunately, I must conclude that the motioner has not read this resolution. Because if I read it, I'd see that everything in it is what the Government recommends with all the measures it cites. Of course, it also misses our fully valid, both constitutional and legal arrangements regarding transparency of operation and public access to information of a public nature. I would like to draw his attention to Rule 111 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which provides that, with a recommendation, the National Assembly shall propose measures for the work of State bodies, organisations, individuals performing public services or exercising public powers. In fact, what the proposer did with his recommendation is that he intervened in something we have regulated. Article 109: "With a resolution, the National Assembly assesses the situation, sets out the policy and adopts national programmes in specific areas". The resolution is therefore a matter of policy-making. This policy has been established in the National Assembly, we have it in the resolution, six years already in force, and we need to follow it. At the end of this resolution, you will find that the National Assembly is considering a report on the implementation of this resolution on the basis of a proposal by the working body of the National Assembly and the Government's opinion at the end of the first year and at the beginning of the last year of the mandate, and that it adopts views on its implementation and the necessary amendments and additions, in order to say that you do not make recommendations, so as to like to listen to something in this direction, to let the public know that you are warning about illegality and I do not know what else is not. That's not even what this is about. The government is working well, the government is operating within the limits of the options given within the resolution, and if you think that the Government is not acting in accordance with the resolution, it is a good way to propose an amendment to the resolution, to supplement it, or to consider what is the situation, but not to recommend that the Government take due account of the resolution. Yeah, I guess it's consistent within the possible framework. Of course, if you look at the introductory provision of the resolution, what is the assessment of the situation, what are the baselines and principles for the preparation of regulations, which you have discussed today, how the rules are being drawn up, how the impact of the rules is being drawn up and applied, and how the guidelines for the preparation of the consequences are being followed, then also how the resolution is being implemented, which I have already mentioned in the introduction. In short, again a completely wrong path for inappropriate evidence, for drowning, where implicitly through the obvious, through recommendations, he is actually trying to criticize the government. The government has given a qualified response to all the observations you have made, we argue that it has told you why some recommendations cannot be accepted simply because they are already being implemented or because they are, of course, going in the wrong direction. That is why the only thing remains, this is the fourth recommendation that we continue to insist, and in this part we recommend that the Government follow closely the resolution adopted by the National Assembly. If you do not like anything about this, then it is not the right way to recommend to the Government, but, of course, as I said, to proceed with the resolution itself and, if necessary, propose to supplement the resolution, which was, as has been said, unanimously adopted in the National Assembly. Of course, I could, but will not, speak on behalf of those who were in there at the time, what their personal position was, what will be the fate of the implementation of this resolution, but I can claim to respect it in this place and to carry out everything that is possible to be taken into account in a consistent manner. Therefore, for us, for the Modern Centre Party, such a recommendation is absolutely acceptable, and we have also accepted it as the only real one. But I think, still, it was fundamentally wrong and it is not necessary for the Government to recommend this measure because there is no need to act, but it is, of course, necessary to remind the Government again in the National Assembly that it must comply consistently with the resolution adopted by the National Assembly. Once again, if something is wrong, we will not use this to politically address the government, against politics, which is a very common phenomenon in this society and an entirely inappropriate and unworthy practice, but, of course, it is necessary to act by appropriate means and, if something is not done, also to choose the right path. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u47	The word is Luke the Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. I would just like to explain this, our recommendations are in no way going against the government, not even against this particular government. But as I said, we are dealing with general social problems, not only in Slovenia, but in general. The problem that we have addressed is the growing estrangement of power from the people. The problem that we have addressed is that, due to lack of transparency, the authorities are becoming increasingly difficult and less active in the public interest. And since it is less and less working in the public interest, more and more democratic institutions are losing legitimacy in the eyes of the people, which we have seen not least in 2012 during the uprisings when it culminated. To begin to correct these matters, it is essential that we ask ourselves what is wrong with the way in which we have power today. We have here addressed a set of policies that we can call common markers of transparency; one of the problems is – and this is not only in the United Left, but not in numbers of NGOs, together with us – that power works too transparently. It is said that it is not clear enough who is preparing laws in whose interest he is preparing laws, how government meetings are taking place, how other bodies are holding meetings, which are taking place behind closed doors and so on. To begin to correct these matters, we have proposed these six recommendations. As I said, these recommendations are not recommendations that we would like to undermine or disable the work of the Government in any way, but we want democratic institutions to regain legitimacy in society. This is the basic purpose of these recommendations. Here we have tried to find the points of reference with pre-election promises, after all also the then Mir Cerar Party, which has advocated very similar principles as we have written in these recommendations here. Therefore, I can only ask you once again to reconsider these recommendations. However, I am sorry that you have accepted this because they have not been malicious, but they are not going against a concrete government, they are not going against your government, but we are trying to address a broader social issue with them and also in a constructive and productive way to start solving it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u49	Any other discussions? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly tomorrow, 18. 12. 2015, in the context of the votes This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments to the International Protection Act. The draft law was tabled by a group of 20 Members and Members with the first signed by Mrs Anjo Bah Žibert. With regard to this bill, the Group of 20 Members and Members, first signed by Mrs Anjo Bah Žibert, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to Mrs Anji Bah Žibert's representative.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u50	Members and Members of the Union, distinguished citizens and citizens! Today, it is clear to the whole of Europe and to the general public that there is no room for deliberation in the migration problem. This should also be followed with full responsibility by Slovenia. We are faced with the fact that some things are working in Europe, others unfortunately not that some areas are subject to common policy, and others not. It is also true that individual rules and common policies do not work or are not adapted to the challenge of these dimensions. The problem of migration flows is also our problem, and no one will solve it for us. In Slovenia, more than 300,000 migrants have illegally crossed the border from mid-October to today. There are some indications that at least 3 million migrants and refugees will arrive in the European Union next year. The wave will then continue and will likely grow stronger when winter is over. Colleagues and colleagues! We can still be such an open society, we can be so humanitarian and solidarity-aware, but we cannot go beyond the facts and reality. Europe will one day simply run out of space for all ten million people who want to come to us. Europe will not be able to bear this burden or it will become exactly the kind of place that these people are fleeing from now. I'm asking you where we're all going to run to. These people, of course, need to be helped, but in particular we need to help them in their area and in their home country. They need help in establishing peace and building a system that will enable them to live a secure, decent life in their countries. Applicants for international protection, I will also use the term asylum in the countries west and north of us, is increasing dramatically. It is only a matter of time before their capacities are oversaturated and new asylum seekers are no longer able to accept. Aware that Slovenia is next in this vessel would expect a timely response from the Government. In practice, however, this government has not taken any action in the field of migration in a timely manner. All measures involved putting out the fire. Thus, we have been faced with the adoption of laws and measures, although we could do a lot together, sooner, better and more transparently. It should be stressed that despite the Government's approach to solving this problem, the Slovenian Democratic Party has always acted constructively and supported all solutions that have meant ensuring greater security for citizens and refugees. [[Incomprehensible]] With this amendment of the Law on International Protection, we have waited for quite some time in the Slovenian Democratic Party, as this amendment was promised by the Government. Since nothing has happened, we have tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party amendments to two laws: the Law on International Protection and the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace, which we will talk about a little later. With the proposed amendments to the Law on International Protection in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are responding to the challenge of time, which, when providing assistance to those who really need it, must ensure the strengthening of the country's security policy and follow the capabilities that we as a country have. Indeed, in Slovenia there are still a lot of people living on and below the poverty threshold, including regular employees. Therefore, we cannot really talk about the crisis behind us. Your Honor! The objective of asylum policy is not to integrate; the aim is to grant asylum to someone who is at risk in his home for as long as these threats persist. Of course, this picture will be quite different in the event that the ambitions of those who want to bring 50 000 new voters to Slovenia in line with the example of the youth editor will prevail and will also adapt to this objective of asylum policy. If so, then we must seriously ask ourselves what we are doing with our fatherhood, our identity, and our values. Since I'm running out of time, I'll give you the details a little later.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u51	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Andre Špenga, to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues! The draft law intervenes in the substantive sense in the provisions concerning the exclusion of the status of international protection, the establishment of conditions for the recognition of international protection, the extension of international protection and the cessation and withdrawal of international protection. In a substantive sense, it also reduces the scope of the rights of applicants for international protection and persons with recognised international protection. The proposed new reasons for exclusion from refugee status in the proposed novel are both a violation of the Convention and a violation of Directive 2001/95 and constitute disproportionate interference with the right to international protection, given the level of the Institute of International Protection. The proposal to delete the applicant’s consent as a condition for the transmission of data to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees is unacceptable, as it is a condition for the transmission of data, which is thus defined in Council Directive 2005/85 and also complies with the rules on the protection of personal data. The deletion of the condition for obtaining consent in the case of finding out the age of unaccompanied adolescents is also a violation of the standard laid down in European Union law, in particular Directive 2005/85. The proposal for a new law on international protection provides for a more precise definition of the time-limits for decision-making following the provisions of the revised Directive 2013/32 and taking into account the specificity of procedures for granting international protection. With regard to the obligation of a person to demonstrate, in the course of his or her declaration, the documents and the reality of the data transmitted, if a person is unable to submit the documents, it is necessary to clarify that, in determining the actual situation in the procedures for the recognition of international protection, it is already detailed in the Law on International Protection. With regard to the time limit within which a person must express the purpose of submitting an application for international protection and the time limit for lodging an application for international protection, it should be noted that the applicable legislation does not, in accordance with international obligations, set a time limit within which a person must apply for international protection, while allowing for an application which has not been lodged without a reasonable reason at the earliest possible time to be rejected as manifestly unfounded. With regard to the proposal relating to the competence to set quotas, it should be stressed that the number of recognised international protection statuses at annual level is not limited. It has also been cited as contrary to the right of access to procedures as a legitimate right arising from international protection law. With regard to provisions amending the scope of the applicant's rights for international protection, it should be clarified that the rights of applicants for international protection, with the exception of the right to education, are already at the level of the minimum standards laid down in European Union legislation. For persons with recognised international protection, the new Law on International Protection provides for certain changes in the direction of proposed groups of applicants, namely the abolition of the one-off cash assistance paid upon removal from their asylum home and the new conditions and the period of eligibility for monetary compensation also for private accommodation. The restriction of refugee status is contrary to the international obligations and legislation of the European Union, since it actually allows the refugee status to not be extended, even though the person still has a legitimate fear of persecution. Assembling a family, i.e. families of persons with recognised international protection, is regulated within the limits of European Union legislation under the Foreigners Act, as the rights of a person with recognised international protection who has brought together a family, partly regulated by the International Protection Act, are proposed in the new Law on International Protection to abolish monetary compensation for private accommodation for family members of persons with subsidiary protection. The amendment also proposes solutions, which are already part of the Law on International Protection, in the direction of regulation proposed by the Government in the new Law on International Protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u53	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Migration is part of the modern world. The idea of the movement of people, goods and services is integrated into the idea of the European Union. Of course, this is about the movement of people within Europe, and this is not a problem because we do not come to another Member State by boat or walk many hours along roads, fields. Let us remember that at the turn of the 19th century and in the mid-20th century, Slovenia experienced migration, either economic or political. In recent years, too, we have found that many Slovenians and Slovenes have decided to seek work and happiness in another member of the European Union due to the economic crisis and resulting job shortages. However, if it goes beyond Europe, it already has a better status at its source, since it has a passport of the European Union. Many do not, however, have this happiness; some opt for migration because of a wide variety of living conditions. Awareness-raising citizens and citizens continue to advocate the fact that those who have not been found guilty in impossible living conditions need to be allowed a easier way to regulate their status. Slovenia, too, is not a target country in this refugee wave, which has also hit our border, but is a transit country, even though volunteers and those who are still working on official duty to help these people in distress. In the light of the refugee crisis, however, the biggest opposition party decided to follow some Member States of the European Union and to prepare a new Law on International Protection, which tightens the conditions for the recognition of international protection. It cannot be overlooked, however, that our legislation is not already particularly open to asylum, international protection and the like. This is also confirmed by the data collected at the competent ministry dealing with this issue. The number of applications for international protection in the Republic of Slovenia is highest in 2000; 9 000 242 applications were accepted, 969 were resolved, 11 were recognised, 46 were rejected, 831 were suspended. Between 2009 and 2015, between 202 and 385 applications were submitted annually. The least recognised status was in 2006, 2007 and 2008; 9 in 2007 and 4 in 2008. Together in three years 22 recognised statuses. Let me get back to the proposed law and what it brings. It shall specify the time limit within which the competent authority shall decide on the recognition of the status of international protection. The applicant shall be liable to submit to the applicant documents which give rise to the reality of the data referred to in the request. The time limit within which the alien wishing to enter Slovenia must express to the competent authority the purpose of the application and at the same time state the reasons for it. It's a three-day deadline. It affects the area of personal defence; it changes the definition of an annual quota for persons who, under law, can be recognised as refugees by fixing an annual quota for Members and Members on a proposal from the Government. The possibility of obtaining status on the basis of family reunification is limited. Family members may apply for status when they acquire a person on the basis of whom an application is made, at least five consecutive times, the right to stay or stay, while at the same time meeting the conditions of accommodation and a sufficient source of subsistence. It is proposed to delete the single cash assistance and amend it to provide accommodation and nutrition. A person with recognised international protection will be entitled to accommodation and nutrition for one year from the date of status following this proposal. In short, the conditions for obtaining status are tightened due to national security and public benefit. The Social Democrats conclude that the law is suitable for further consideration, and we will not support it, but not because a government proposal is put into the legislative process, but because we believe that the proposed solutions in this novel may also be constitutionally controversial. Finally, I would like to remind you that a climate conference has been concluded in Paris a few days ago, and it may seem that today's debate is not concerned, but at this conference there have been clear warnings that the number of refugees, migrants, will increase also due to climate change. In a contribution to one of the TV programs, a girl from Marshall Islands said that she did not want to leave her home, but circumstances would soon force her to do so, as the ocean quietly takes her home. Migration, as I have already said in the introduction, is part of the modern world, and if ever, the world must recognize not only Europe or Slovenia as a challenge to the 21st century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u56	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! Today we're going to deal with two pierres of the right hand. The SDS has put two proposals into the legislative process, which have a single purpose: to use the refugee crisis for its own party and ideological promotion. This does not surprise us in the United Left, for it has been so since the day our first refugees crossed our border. More alarmingly, even the Government offers support for the awakening of fear and hatred against refugees. The government surrounded Slovenia with a barbed wire, prepared its changes to asylum legislation, and sent an army with police powers to the borders — all under the cover of security. But we're wondering who's threatening us. Refugees just want to cross the country. Everything we should provide in this regard is therefore appropriate for just a few hours. To date, there is also no official record of refugees endangering anyone. No more serious offenses have been committed, unless you feel that taking some wood in the yard to warm your frozen family with fire is a serious threat to safety. The security argument cannot therefore be justified in any way, and consequently the measures taken by the Government to date were unnecessary. It is also not justified either by the SDS or by the government proposal to amend asylum legislation. This is already extremely restrictive and rigid. The Directives, which are intended to represent only and only minimum standards, as Mr Secretary has said, are almost literally summarized into our law. All applicants for protection have thus far received very little support from the State. The applicants state that asylum legislation needs to be amended because we are witnessing a major wave of refugees. True, the number of refugees is high, but the number of asylum seekers still does not deviate from the number of applications in recent years, as virtually everyone wants to cross Slovenia. As a result of the recent months, only about 100 asylum applications have been submitted, most of which have already left Slovenia. The number of applications does not go away from the average of the last eighteen years, except for the period 2000-2005 when we had more than a thousand applications per year. The number of applicants cannot in any way be the reason for any changes. Second, we ask ourselves exactly what else to take away from the refugees: their home has already been destroyed, their dignity on the way to, not better, but normal life as well; the escort to the teeth of armed policemen and soldiers has become their daily routine; waiting in line for them to get blankets and cans of stuffed fish as well. It's clearly too much for the right hand. In the United Left, we do not understand in which part our legislation is intended to be too generous and should be further exacerbated. Does it seem too generous to suggest that we keep refugees without food, drink, and clothing from gathering centers? Does it seem too generous for all to receive adequate health care? Is it too much to put them into an asylum home after the application and offer them an 18-euro allowance? Eighteen euros a month's allowance! Do they find it too generous that, for example, a girl from Somalia had to wait for five years to be reunited with her family? Is it too generous that the average procedure for obtaining protection lasts more than one year? Do we even know the cases where applicants have been waiting for more than a year just to see if the country has found an appropriate interpreter?Oh, my God! How inappropriate and non-lifeless asylum legislation we have is clearly based on the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Practically every time a specific case is brought before the Constitutional Judges, at least one article falls. This year alone, the provisions of the International Protection Act have been repealed twice for reasons of non-constitutionality. Such cases would probably be even more likely if they were to regulate a little more life-consulting areas of counsellors who help fugitives in court proceedings to exercise their rights. In addition, it is also necessary to make clear what the refugees are actually waiting for when they arrive in the target country. The dream of a better life will dissipate most of the refugees in wire encircled camps, with fences and police surrounded by refugee centres or in foreign homes where they will wait for exile to their country of origin. However, those who are lucky enough to remain in the desired country will be pushed to the brink of society, receiving daily attacks on right - hand politics and on the perceptions that they are eating bread to the locals. Those actually receiving adequate protection in Europe will be very few, taking into account the statistics so far. European statistics do not favour them, because the percentage of requests they are granted is around 46%; therefore more than half of them are rejected. In Slovenia last year, the number of asylum applications increased from 270 in 2013 to 385 in last year and only 45 from 385 applications were positively resolved. So talking about broad-based asylum legislation is everything before it's in place. But of course, this is of course not of interest to the applicants, all they want to achieve today's proposal is a performance for the public and a collection of cheap political points. This is clearly evident from the text of the law. The applicants simply walked over the existing provisions and, for each of the rights, simply tightened the conditions, reduced the deadlines and crossed out provisions that give refugees any rights. In doing so, it should be stressed that it is already only a minimum and only a minimum, which does not allow refugees in practice to ensure decent survival and effective integration. In the United Left, we agree that asylum legislation needs to be amended, but it should be amended in such a way that it actually allows for the human treatment of both migrants and asylum seekers. It needs to be changed in such a way that they can actually obtain adequate protection at an appropriate time, which in no way means only a warm meal per day, but the State must allow them to have a decent life and an actual opportunity for integration. Our legislation does not guarantee this today. In the United Left, we will not support the proposal as appropriate for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Jernej Vrtovec will present the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u58	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! Today we are talking about one serious issue that is essentially addressed by the whole European Union, all the countries of the European Union. Indeed, the current migration crisis, in particular the duration and volume of migration flows, has already triggered a response in the European countries most burdened by the influx of migrants in the area of the tightening of asylum legislation itself. Although the target countries of migrants Germany, Austria and the Scandinavian countries are rich or economically strong countries after gross domestic product, the asylum legislation has already changed – but to what extent, I will explain later. In order to reduce the scope of asylum rights, including material rights, they have gone in particular in the direction of tightening the conditions for obtaining asylum status. In solving the migration issue in Slovenia, we are late in all or all areas, including in the area of ensuring the conditions for State border insurance, ensuring security and, of course, regulating asylum legislation. The government should have brought such a bill to the National Assembly a few months ago, but instead, we had only a few days before we had a government proposal. This is a message on this migration wave. So, once again, let me stress why timely action is important. As we heard a few days ago, Germany is predicting a significant restriction on the flow of migrants. As a result, this means, above all, that there will be an increase in the requests of migrants for international protection in our territory or in the territory of our country. To this end, our country should already be prepared with appropriate legislative solutions – I am talking about yesterday, not today, not tomorrow. Some emphasis on reducing the number of migrants in Germany and Austria. Also last week or this weekend, a consensus was reached in Germany on how Germany will reduce the flow of migrants, how Germany will tighten asylum legislation. The same is said by Austria. In the midst of the refugee crisis, Austria has mainly changed asylum time limits and conditions for family reunification. This is an agreement between all key actors, political parties in Austria. It is also clear that it is a matter of time-limited protection — no more and no less, says the Austrians. What this means for Slovenia – this means that in Slovenia the number of asylum applications can be increased. Furthermore, in Austria, those who will not be entitled to asylum but only to subsidiary protection will have to wait for three years in the coming year instead of three years before they can bring their families to Austria. We have a wide range of possibilities for pooling families, and we have changed this in the stability of the National Assembly on the issue of Somali girl. Germany. What will be the process of reducing the influx of migrants and exacerbating asylum legislation in Germany? They have made a list of safe countries and all the countries of the Balkans are on this list, and they also take the Republic of Slovenia into account. They have written that among all migrants arriving, 40% are migrants from the Balkans. Furthermore, they say that all these people will return to their countries of origin and instead of their money support, which has so far been – and what is also in the Republic of Slovenia – they will devote only food support, no more financial resources. It is said that all the countries of the European Union or those target countries of the European Union have taken concrete measures. And Germany, I warn, has taken a measure to reduce the right for asylum users to join the family. Today's draft law also provides a number of solutions in order to strengthen asylum legislation in the Republic of Slovenia, the most important of which is the limitation of the deadline for the submission of an application for international protection, three days from entry into the country, and the time limit for the recognition of the right to international protection for a maximum of one year, with the possibility of submitting new applications and the extension of that right every year, if the situation in the country of origin is not changed, they are not better, they are not safe. These are two key measures proposed by one of the opposition parties, which we also support in New Slovenia. It is further worth mentioning that solutions that oblige the applicant to undertake certain activities for successful integration are also important. This is the signature of a contract defining such obligations, including: learning Slovenian language, learning Slovenian literature, culture and constitutional regulation. There is no doubt that some persons who will be granted international protection will not, or will not be able to, return to their home country even after the end of the war situation or the general crisis situation and the integration process must begin immediately upon recognition of the status of international protection. Let me put it this way, now you're going to say Germany again – yes, what's it like in Germany? In Germany, the chancellor said that this week the multimedia is over. For the third generation of Muslims, the Turks in Germany no longer want to integrate, they are first, they are not third. It is important to ask what is wrong with such arrangements. Members of the New Slovenia Group, as I have already said, support, but point out that some of the rights of persons with international protection are also governed by the Foreigners Act, which we do not touch today, and the Government of Change in this area is not yet preparing. Among other things, the applicable Foreigners Act regulates the right to family reunification. In our belief, it is necessary to narrow down the circle of persons who are granted the right to join a family. This right must only be granted to the spouse or extra-marital partner and to the minor children of the applicant, as this area has been continuously regulated by the European Union developed countries and as required by the Member States of the European Union itself. If we maintain the existing regime and grant this right to children, stepchildren, parents of the applicant, parents of the spouse and other persons related to each other, this, given the number of families in the environment from which migrants come, would pose a much greater problem for our country than just the number of persons with recognised international protection. This is what developed countries of the European Union are doing, and we have very much expanded this circle of people in this mandate, and the consequences could be seen mainly when Germany, Austria, is about to start reducing the number of persons or the number of migrants, according to forecasts. Why am I speaking Germany and Austria? Because events in Germany and Austria, all events, everything that happens in Germany and Austria, then falls to the Republic of Slovenia. If Germany strengthens the conditions, then we will also feel the consequences in Slovenia and we must act in time. If we have not taken timely action by setting up fences as a signal, then at least in the area of amending asylum legislation, the Aliens Act, asylum procedures, we will start to act in time so that it is not too late. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mag. Liliana Kozlovic will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u60	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Hello, everybody! In 1951, the Geneva Convention on the Status of Refugees and Stateless Persons was adopted. At that time, the community was aware of the consequences and damage suffered by an individual based on fear of persecution based on race, religion, nationality, and a variety of other reasons why an individual cannot or does not want to return to his own country of origin. They had already established the obligations of refugees to a country which meant respect for the rule of law and had also established the obligations of the State to refugees based on non-discrimination at least under the same conditions as foreigners by providing certain material or financial goods. In short, ensuring a person a decent life, which means: education, housing, health care, access to employment and a variety of other rights. In 2003, minimum standards have been set which are also respected by the countries responsible for ensuring asylum policy. The motion for amendments was, as the proposal states, due to the increased migration wave, the emergence of terrorists along with them and the terrorist attack in Paris. The proposal also substantiates that the asylum system has not only changed Slovenia. However, in its proposal, the proposer proposes certain solutions that are already regulated in the current legislation, such as demonstrating the reasons for the application, the purpose of the application, the deadline for the submission of applications, the presence of an interpreter and a person who knows the situation, the education programmes and so on. In certain cases, however, it seeks to tighten the conditions for the recognition and termination of the right, as well as the level of rights, but certain proposals are not in line with international regulation, and some even in direct contradiction – the government has also quoted them directly before. I should like to point out that, while national states are independent in regulating asylum policy, they are obliged to respect specific international rules in this field and in particular the General Declaration on Human Rights. Thus, for example, the applicant for non-recognition or termination of a status has already established, on the grounds of a reasonable suspicion of a crime or offence, which is contrary to the purpose of the Convention on the Status of Refugees, which is to provide protection to the persons they actually need, since the reasonableness of the suspicion does not yet constitute guilt and this is also true in our legislation and for our citizens. Even worse, under the conditions of family reunification, where this right is expressly protected in Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights. The State is responsible for ensuring respect for fundamental human rights for persons granted international protection. The right to enforce family life is also enshrined in our Constitution in Article 53. It is justified only under constitutionally permissible objectives and in accordance with the principle of proportionality. For these reasons, the SMC Group does not support the bill. Let me say tomorrow's world migration day. An important message will be transmitted to these people today in the National Assembly. The Government has introduced into the legislative procedure the Law on International Protection, which implements the rules of the European Union, which provide largely for a common asylum policy and a single asylum system. The very diversity of arrangements in the European Union has proved problematic in this situation. Restrictions on the rights of persons with international protection must also be based on prescribed minimum standards. The standards currently in force in the Republic of Slovenia are among the lowest standards which have been and still have been prescribed by other Member States of the European Union, which discourages applicants from submitting their applications to us. We need to be aware of two things; lowering standards indirectly means reducing solidarity in the common asylum policy of the members of the European Union and directly affects the quality and speed of integration of those to whom international protection is also recognised. Slovenia is and must remain an inclusive society. However, there is always a need to take a reasonable approach to amending legislation. There is no need for rapid and drastic action today. In the refugee wave 127 applications for refugee status were submitted, 45 were resolved and 4 were recognised. In the case of a serious threat to the public and economic security of our country, however, the Government may amend the law by means of an urgent procedure and ensure adequate security, which is not currently at risk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grims will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u62	I'd like to say good-bye to everyone! First, I have to fix one of the speakers – I hope it won't be bad. In fact, when Mrs Merkel, who had just said a few weeks ago that all migrants who wanted to come, changed politics, did not use the expression that the number of asylum seekers should be substantially reduced, as he mistakenly said, she used the term drasticly. She said that the number of migrants or asylum-seekers should be drastically reduced because Europe no longer tolerates this. I can give all the European policy, and I wish our government only a pleasant good morning, because if we had listened to the timely warnings we have been giving for months, then we would have talked about things differently, and above all we could have done that movement that some have not made for this speaker today, even though it is now mainly European policy, because it has, of course, stopped talking about refugees, but is talking about migrants or asylum seekers. In fact, this brings us back to the legal framework. Once the legal terms on this issue are applied consistently, the right solutions will be offered on their own. No one but one who enters this territory is a fugitive under international law. You can be a fugitive when you're saving your life, threatened, in the first safe country. You're a fugitive there. When you move on, you're a migrant. If you enter, as this government permits, into the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, when half enters without any documents, the other half has counterfeits, then you are an illegal migrant. And of course, the whole thing is illegal. If the Schengen rules were consistently respected in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, then this problem of Slovenia would never be addressed, but it must. For the damage is already great, though these men go most of the way only through. How big is it? You have set EUR 123 million yourself in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for migrants for the following year. What's interesting is the comparison, on TV you could see the case of one school, of a high school in Jesenica in Gorenjsk, so simmering that the children run on their heads to sit in their dressing gowns in classrooms, but they learn well. These are our children. The few hundred thousand euros for the rehabilitation of this school is an insurmountable problem for this government and this coalition. But 123 million for illegals, that's also your illegal act, and that's no problem! Our children are a problem for you. Migrants are not a problem. For them all! This is the reality of the situation if we once look at it through the law and use the right legal concepts. As said, Europe is slowly awakening. This means that, just as at the beginning of this story there was no room for naivety, it will be much less at the end. When they do, and believe that, illegal migrants will start to come back mass, then you have to count on these people to be insulted, ill-willed, and hold on to any chance of staying somewhere. What is the attitude of migrants towards Slovenia today? Slovenia is not saving a smart government, please! Slovenia saves the fact that migrants know exactly who the power is in Slovenia. You remember when they asked one of the migrants, what about you, or you would stay in Slovenia, see how beautiful the country is. And he said, "Uh, Marks, Lenin! Ugh! Let's move on!" That's what's really distracting them. They know exactly where they're going. The failed leftist governments that have taken Slovenia down in recent years are, of course, a wedding to go, if possible, elsewhere. But when they are returned when the borders close – and they will – then there will be a problem; because then also Slovenia will be a pleasant destination and then we will have to take this problem very seriously, much more seriously than you have done so far. Because the damage is already massive, it's direct. Like, I said. You set up 123 million for migrants next year. 123 million euros. From this we could build dozens of schools, hospitals, for which all pensioners could have higher pensions. It's a very interesting comparison of what it's like at cost. Someone who has spent his entire life working in this country for a minimum wage on tape gets a year now from this country, this government, a good EUR 5,000. One migrant illegal costs this country a year, according to your finance minister, more than 10,000 euros; it is said twice as much. That's what money is for! He's not here for the pensioners, and he's not here for the kids! It's a real state. And some are still publishing on the headlines of Welcome 50 000 new citizens, because now you are panicking when they see that probably enough votes against them will lower their policy at the Sunday referendum, if people don't stay home naively, they imagine that they will now bring 50,000 new citizens and the next will be different. However, if they have not noticed, this will not be their electorate, they will never vote for two men to adopt a child, and for similar goats offered by this government and this coalition to that country. Because, of course, they know what this is about. Well, let me get back to the narrow part of this problem. All of Europe is now sharpening asylum legislation, all of Europe. It was very interesting to hear the debates that had been here so far, as if Slovenia were an island there that did not understand what was going on. I think everyone understands very well what this is about: both Germany and Austria, which at the moment are limiting and significantly prolonging the periods when it comes to, say, family reunification. Some of you said how to propose such a law. The coalition lady even said, tomorrow is the day of the migrants. Yes, because your government has proposed to tighten asylum legislation; but in a law that is like your policy on this issue all the time – half-sex and therefore failed. A typical example of this is how the fence works down there and the circus around it. If this were to be properly fenced from the start and made a suitable fence, it could be fine for animals, it could have a sufficient number of doors, it wouldn't be a circus like this. But it was all part-time. This is still the same in this asylum legislation that you are proposing. What's the problem now? It is clear, of course, that the flow will always go where the situation will be more favourable than in the current target countries. Therefore, the first thing to do is to stop doing that we are the richest country in Europe that pays everything, all transportation, allowance, money, everything alive. Many of those who come have a huge amount of money, so large that some Slovenian family can only dream of it. But you know that in some people who went through Slovenia, I don't know whether here or there – the Prime Minister of the Government told us not to look at it – there were huge amounts of money, even 300 000 euros; after 100,000 euros, these cases were as many as you want. During the initial phase, the rule was that when they reached the goal, there were still some 10,000 euros or, in the worst case, about 10,000 per hand. How many families in Slovenia can boast that it has 10,000 euros in cash? But there is still talk about the poor who need to be helped, to raise money, and people who really barely survive take it from their mouths to help because they don't even know what's going on because they're being lied to by the media and the incompetent government. Here come those who are able to work, if you want, fighting, and then come to the European absurdity – to come illegal migrants, the young boys themselves, 2 000 500 of them in the first phase, where there was no one woman, one child, with the first trains they came to Munich. And then they put them in social security and they spend mountains of money on them. German soldiers are going to fight down to Syria now. Somebody else tell me this isn't an absurd theater! But, as it is said, Europe is slowly waking up and finding it smart. If we do not want these costs to be further burdened by Slovenia, with the current inadequate and completely flawed policy that has done enormous damage – in addition to the direct one that I have said is EUR 123 million for one year – then indirectly. Much more will be needed for jobs, for the military, for the police, for everyone, and not only in the short term, but this will now be a problem in the medium and long term too. Then there's the third one that's probably the worst. This is an economic damage which, in my opinion, has been greatly underestimated and is now estimated at only three million so far. Personally, I think it's much bigger, but okay, we'll see how it goes. However, you need to know that some, if this thing continues and does not calm down, some industries will not only be clinically dead like this moment, but will literally die out, among them certainly tourism and hospitality in the first place. That is why, of course, this proposal is appropriate. You all know this very well in this Chamber and it is better than a government proposal because it is not semi-professional. As it is said, the government has stopped there somewhere in the middle, as is always the case with this policy, and now our proposal must be rejected in order to put yours forward, which, of course, also sharpens asylum legislation. So that reference to the day of migrants tomorrow – well, a little comical. But in any case, the problem with this half-life is that there are some traps left in your marriage that are very well regulated by our marriage. It sets up significantly better mechanisms to speed up procedures, to sanction people who do not respect the law, to which, by the way, all countries in the European Union in one or another form or to prepare this, as far as the current coalition is not aware. And of course, we propose that if someone commits a crime, the clear procedure will be stopped, even in some other cases, and the same in the event of voluntary abandonment. The government proposal here is very interesting, allowing some time for things to come back; and this is quite a long one as I could see. On the other hand, they do not exacerbate the issue of family reunification. You know, that's the problem. If all those who come here come with or without forged documents, it is extremely difficult to prove who really is. Even less can you prove to yourself during the riots and wars and the chaos of the government in its original countries, and in part it is artificially created, who is actually with whom, in fact, related or married. And then you can make anything out of it. This is why this issue is so problematic, and it is certain that our first neighbours, who, by the way, have extended this period to a maximum of three years to the start of this procedure. That's what the Austrians did if anyone doesn't know. Similar mechanisms are now being considered or already introduced by Germany and some other countries. It's important to know that everyone who went there went through here. Some of them will be returned. Believe it or not, it's only a matter of time. Now it is only a question of whether we will be prepared in due time by appropriate legislation or whether we will put out fire again after it burns to heaven, as you do with the late construction of the fence, and you do so, according to the halfway system; such that people are rightly angry and that this can be easily discredited. Instead of doing it in time, together with Hungarians, declaring them a prison for illegal migrants and turning the tide elsewhere, in Slovenia we would now deal peacefully with the things that need to be done; strengthening the security and better lives of people, with all that unfortunately the current coalition is essentially threatening with its half-life.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u63	Mr Peter Wilphan will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. Honourable Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, representatives of the Government! By the end of November, SDS Members had tabled in the legislative procedure a proposal for a law by which, among other things, the focus was on the granting of asylum status to asylum-seekers, as well as a proposal for a law prohibiting the wearing of burks and nikaba in Slovenia. It is no wonder that both proposals were slobbering on the parliamentary bench during the worst refugee crisis in Europe. It is a fact that, following the example of several European countries, Slovenia will soon amend the Law on International Protection, which sets out the procedures and rights of asylum seekers and people to whom the State recognises refugee status. In particular, it will be necessary to amend the articles that will ensure faster procedures for the granting of status and will focus on preventing the abuse of asylum. The procedures currently in force are long-lasting and generally longer than half a year. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has already tabled in the legislative procedure a proposal for an international protection law that deals comprehensively with the area of international protection. A government proposal for a law establishes a common European asylum system, as only a common asylum policy can be an integral part of the EU's objective of gradually creating an area of freedom, security and rights that will be open to all those who have been forced by circumstances to legitimately seek protection. Member States want to unify the area of migration and asylum at European level and thus ensure the necessary international protection for third-country nationals and, at the same time, ensure that migration flows are monitored at the same time. But let me focus on the SDS proposal. In their view, the objective of asylum policy should not be integration, but merely to ensure security and survival in times of danger. But very poor opportunities for the integration of refugees in Europe have contributed to their exclusion and conflicts with the environment. They further propose an annual quota of persons for international protection status, abolishing all cash assistance, including allowance. However, the status of international protection shall be extended after one year at the request for a further year if the conditions are met. Of course, the proposal is attractive to the public at first sight, because we all face the fears of the possible consequences of the refugee crisis, but the public in particular needs to be calmed down and not intimidated, as they have always tried in the SDS Group, with which the NSI Group agrees in most cases. Let me illustrate this unfounded fear with numbers, as the requirements of stricter asylum legislation would be difficult to support with statistics. During the period of the refugee wave, only 59 people asked for international protection in Slovenia and only 38 individuals gained status. It should also be clarified that the refugee status is granted only after the current legislation, who proves that he has been persecuted as an individual in his own country, while subsidiary protection is recognised to those who come from war zones, in principle only for the duration of the conflict. Finally, the SDS proposal is largely contrary to the provisions of the Convention in the status of refugees. I have in mind, above all, the proposal for annual quotas here. The Convention must be respected by Slovenia, which states that asylum must be granted to anyone who requests it and has the appropriate reasons for doing so. In the Desus Group, we believe that the proponents want to take advantage of the refugee crisis and events in Paris and elsewhere. Such exacerbation only serves to raise political points, to meet fear and intolerance, which is even more reflected in the proposal for a law to be dealt with at the next point, so we will not support such a proposal in the Desus Group. But all together, at this point, we can only imagine what can happen if refugees – I stress refugees and not economic migrants – are rejected and denied entry and can be sentenced to death or to life in the shadows without any rights and possibilities of survival.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u65	Thank you very much. We are done with the presentation of the positions of the parliamentary groups. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, the proposer, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Chairman. After these opening remarks, a number of things have come up that I have a responsibility to respond to. First of all, as far as Mrs Bojana Muršič is concerned, on behalf of the SD. She was talking about the numbers of these applicants; I don't know, she was pulling the numbers from 2000. Look, the government served us the following information this year. In 2014, 385 applications for international protection were jointly accepted in the Republic of Slovenia. Now listen to me, where did these citizens come from? Syria, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Kosovo and so on. There's something very wrong here. In doing so, it should be noted that, compared to the year before, this rate or this percentage has increased just once, at a time when, of course, many refugees were coming and going forward. To resolve this misunderstanding once again, which some are very fond of, and thus leave to the public some doubts. At present, Slovenia does not yet have these problems, so let us hope that a preventive measure will be taken, given that the mass of people is travelling illegally and that mass will return once again, because the countries to which the refugees now wish will not be able to do so again. It's clear to everyone that once the container is full, it's full, it doesn't work anymore! When the ship is full, it's full and then it just sinks. We're talking about these people coming back and, of course, applying for asylum status. It is therefore a proposal to amend this legislation. To answer your questions about the violation of the Constitution. I can't believe it! The MPs who violated it in this national assembly say that this might be an infringement into the constitution! Yesterday we had a law on the table that was unconstitutional, and you did not mind — you rejected it! Today you are saying that this law may be constitutionally controversial, but I am also interested in what part of it. As for Mrs Lilliana Kozlovich, who has provided some information that people need to be helped. Absolutely! I think I said in my position that they need help and it is right to help them, but in our country's capabilities. How's he doing right now? This is the data, respected, minimum wage of a worker for 40 years for a running lane – EUR 5,000 208 gets per year. That is the cost of one applicant per year, the data of Minister Marble – 10,000 euros. What is now unconstitutional? So that you do not say that I am speaking in this way — what are they all getting? Accommodation in integration houses, payment of money for accommodation in private, payment of one-off aid for removal from an asylum home to go elsewhere within the country. They get all social security, they say the same as citizens, all the aid that comes out of it – of course, not all citizens get it as they should – health care costs and so on. And you're saying our asylum legislation is too tight!? I just can't agree with Mrs Muršič. You mentioned or Mrs Lilliana Kozlovich mentioned that there is, of course, a way to go by and that we have a desire for populism and that tomorrow is just the day to fight – I mean, help the refugees. On the day, right on the day, not tomorrow, but on the day of the fight against corruption, we talked about corruption in the National Assembly, and you didn't care. That is how I think it would be right for us to talk today mainly about the content of this law and not to seek cheap collection of political points. In the introduction, I said that we had waited a long time, we had warned since July that something had to be done, that the government had been waiting, and since this proposal was not available, we had put it in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Now the government can also search for hair in the egg and look for the shortcomings of our bill. It's the first reading! You have options in the second reading, options are amendments, but the point is that the government wants to completely discredit this proposal. On the other hand, we, the distinguished representatives of the Government, tell you how many laws we have in the country of the Republic of Slovenia that are not in accordance with the directives. It's huge! We're constantly adjusting. Why do you not report to the National Assembly in accordance with the law on time? And here you write that there is something in conflict with the law, and then tell me if Germany is involved in such violations. Germany is also sharpening, including as regards family reunification, it is also referring to the abolition of all forms of financial assistance replaced by material aid, as we propose, and it also speaks of the imposition of individual administrative measures if an individual does not complete those obligations imposed on him. One of these is the possibility of status itself. But if that is the case, as I say, the law is at first reading and there are many things you can propose in the amendments. But it is not to discredit a law that is clear on individual matters, and it tells us exactly what we want. The most important thing is that a stranger who wants to enter the Republic of Slovenia — and let’s stop trying to help those who need help because that’s not true! What are the key points? It is pointed out that a foreigner wishing to enter the Republic of Slovenia must immediately give his intention to the competent authority and then provide evidence of the recognition of the status of international protection within three days, otherwise this may continue indefinitely. Next time. The competent authority shall decide within 30 days to know whether this status is granted or not. 30 days seems long enough for this data to be collected. We're also talking about an annual quota that you want to convert in some way. Of course, he's talking about refugees from third countries, but that's what the government is all about today. We propose that this discussion be discussed earlier by the National Assembly and that the National Assembly is the one who, on a proposal from the Government, takes this decision. We're shutting down all forms of cash assistance. It is true that refugees need help, so we replace them with the rights to provide accommodation and nutrition for a period of one year. Excuse me, isn't that a form of help?Oh, my God! Of course it is. This is what someone needs — warm space and food. How many citizens of the Republic of Slovenia live on the threshold and below the poverty threshold?Oh, my God! Some don't even have enough heat, but here you think it's sharpened, too much. I can't agree with you. They remain allowed to participate in the labour market. They should be included as soon as possible where they can help. The status of international protection is obtained for a period of one year, and then, if the reasons are still justified, they can play a role and, of course, obtain this international protection for a period of one year. At that time, it is right that, in accordance with the contract proposed, they also take a step forward; it is said that they successfully complete the education of the Slovenian language in a framework which is, of course, appropriate. But, you know, it's not like they're going to go to the Slovenian language class for 100 hours. No, a test of knowledge needs to be done, for walking is not the same as learning. Excuse me. You put up your headphones and you sit down. It is also right to learn something about our culture, our constitutional order and so on. In short, that's what we're proposing. We also do not allow anyone to unite with his family. I still claim that if someone is a fugitive, he will first see to it that he destroys his family, his children, and runs with them. But I find it a little bit more difficult to bear that almost 70% of the men themselves are young people who cross the border themselves, and families are nowhere to be found. That's a little harder to bear. Just because we think that when it comes to refugees, we assume they come with families, and no one who comes as a fugitive will be rejected. But we've already separated refugees and asylum seekers. And after five years, if he is, of course, capable of providing a source of livelihood and residence, this union with his family will be possible. And that's right. See how many citizens of the Republic of Slovenia today do not hope to create their family because they do not have the basic conditions! But now we give other citizens higher on this scale than our own citizens? Can we? One more thing about Mr. Wilfán. He cited in particular the provisions of the law proposed by the Government, which we are not discussing today. But it will be interesting to use this when your proposal is on the agenda, because we will probably speak in the same words about populism. There is something else about the violations referred to by Mrs Lilliana Kozlovich that the same criteria already apply. Listen to this, Your Honor, if you have not looked at article 80 of the current law — house violations. There are two types, easier and harder. You know what comes under more serious violations — possession and use of weapons or explosives! Dear fellow Member, this is quite interesting. It is said: possession of weapons and explosives, breaking into the premises of an asylum home, disposing of objects or, better said, at home, deliberately destroying premises, entering and using illicit drugs. These are worse forms of violations. Do you know what sanctions are? Temporary removal of the licence – a permit means that an asylum can go out for a few days and then return — or permanent removal of the licence! It is said that he will continue to dwell in this house, where everything will be destroyed. And what is more funny — the unpaid allowance for one month! Someone in this country can possess weapons, illegally, explosives, and use them as a punishment for not letting him walk around Slovenia for a few days; or even better not to pay his allowance for a month. That's the law we have. And we've been waiting for these changes and they haven't been there; and since they haven't been there, we've proposed changes to the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. To finish — then I will definitely stop by, and I still have some time. As far as the United Left is concerned, I do not intend to compromise their statements. I've already said that the bill is populism. It is not populist, it is a security measure and it is a matter of protecting our country in the first place, so that we can help those who can do our best. However, I would somewhat reverse their dilemma here, and it would be good to have their work, with their presence, to build an electoral base with a successful policy, not by importing and paying costlyly with tax money a new electoral base in the form of asylum seekers and then, of course, by not saying that I don't know what I'm saying. In short, 50,000 new voters should earn a job and a successful policy. One more thing. We do not intimidate citizens, respectable Mr Wilfan, but there are frightening public opinion polls. In November for citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, I accidentally saw it on one of the news shows yesterday: Do you think that migrants can endanger national security? 64%, but 29% don't think so. Do you think that migrants can threaten peace in Europe? 78% think so, but 14% don't. The rest are undecided. So much for who's scaring who. I think that here we are all in a role called by citizens and citizens, they want security. Our job is to enable it as far as we can.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin, get Mr. Marko Ferluga ready. Here you go, Mr. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u68	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, there are a lot of words today about who is the demagog, whether this bill is populism or not. I would like to see that in this debate, in particular, concrete data are used, analysed and given some concrete answers. The responsible policy is one that thinks at least two steps ahead, and before one thing happens, it has a solution in place for times of crisis. According to the United Nations, there are over 2 billion hungry people and people living below the poverty line in Europe and around the world, in short, if you are looking at the whole world, or according to their data. I agree that these people need help, but we cannot help them by inviting them all to Europe, so – I hope we are all aware – we claim that open-door policy or Open-border slogans cannot help these two billion people who are living a difficult life today. We have to teach these people how to fish, but we can't give them fish because they're just gonna run out of fish for everyone. I speak in parables, but I really think that these two billion unfortunate people will only be helped by addressing the causes, why these people are unhappy and why they are living in a difficult situation. We do this primarily by stopping wars where wars are going on and by increasing development aid. The biggest investment in man is to teach him to read and write. This is the biggest investment for the future. In 2012, I was with our soldiers in Afghanistan, where we had the opportunity to talk a lot. And what did they tell us? More than any help in weapons, in money, is a key help in education. To help them survive, to help them, to enable girls to attend school; in short, to create citizens who can read and write. This is the biggest investment for all those ends and places where people find it difficult to live and go on the moon. Today we have quite a few crisis hotspots that drive many people against Europe and also against other parts of the world. Let me only expose Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan, Libya, a significant part of North Africa. Here it is fair to say and acknowledge that as a result of these migrations, this migration crisis, the result of irresponsible policies has been great. Here you have to throw in the same basket all the way from the US, Russia and China. If you look at what these nobles are doing in North Africa and the Middle East, then you can see that once they support this dictator, secondly they create conflicts that produce wars, and then wars produce refugees, and finally economic migrants who escape the prospect in their countries. These are the key reasons why we are facing this crisis today and why so many people are fleeing Europe. The key question is what to do to put an end to this. One very important thought – now we have a very serious fight against terrorism, many countries are talking against the fight against the Islamic State, but data is important. If today countries defeat the Islamic State, the problem or cause of migration has not yet been addressed. There is no elimination of the reason why the Islamic State was created, because when we eliminate this Islamic state, a new terrorist organisation will emerge. So I'm going to go back to the beginning again: we have to create the conditions that people in crisis hotspots can live normally and have a perspective, not that the most educated, the best people leave these parts and practically, what then, the countries remain – nothing! Because everyone who knows something that could be put on their feet by the end of the conflict is fleeing this country. Europe is familiar with the example of good practice as to how radicalism is being eliminated and how countries are being put on their feet. See what Europe or the whole Western world did after the end of World War II, when we put an end to another radicalism, Nazism in this case; what it did and how it built some modern new Germany. They did or Western Europe did so, radicalism ended by occupying the country in the long term and with a large amount of money with the then Marshall Plan helped them build institutions and to relive. Essentially, if you look at it, there's an American army in Germany today. You wonder when Austria has finally become independent. If you look at the comparison now between the interventions of the Western Council in Iraq and Afghanistan, you see a significant difference, and in Afghanistan it appears that the Western Council has left this crisis area too quickly and that the Taliban are regaining power there and that we have been too little time to establish some normal institutions. In short, we have several examples of good practices that would apply to the current Middle East and North Africa crisis hotspots. Once again, however, I stress that the best investment in the West and also us is to help these people invest in education, and that is the only way to move forward. Today, because of all the problems we have, about 2 million people are waiting in Turkey to continue their journey northward towards Europe. Today, the coalition can say that this is no longer a problem, that the migratory flow has decreased significantly and that things are all manageable, but you will see what will happen when the sea between Turkey and Greece is calmed when the weather conditions improve, this refugee or mignant flow will increase further. I am sure that there are at least three roads here on this Balkan path, which will accelerate this migratory flow in the future. One is definitely Turkey, which has a lot of migrants, and by pushing them out of their country, it is in some way burdening its costs. It also forces Europe to provide more money. The others are the Greeks. I am sure that, along with the coastguard they have, they could quickly establish order around their islands, of course, if they had also been written off by Western Europe in a faster procedure. Last but not least, there are smugglers who turn between €2 billion and €3 billion annually. All these three elements will also accelerate migration against Slovenia in 2016. It is up to us to prepare ourselves properly for these things and to respond. But nothing radical, nothing impatient, nothing rude, but the real circumstances need to be assessed. If today we have 100,000 people of our own who are unemployed and 300,000 who live below the poverty line, it is clear that our options are not boundless and that the biggest mistake we can make is that we give people the feeling that migrants have more than Slovenian citizens. Because if this feeling is anchored among people, it will only further stimulate conflicts between migrants, refugees and indigenous populations. This conflict will then, for all eternity, prevent some good, successful integration. Throughout Europe, it has been shown that multiculturalism does not work, that parallel worlds are emerging and that the only thing that produces some results is integration. But with this kind of policy to increase the dissatisfaction between the indigenous population and the migrants themselves, some serious integration cannot be done. This is also why this asylum policy needs to be adapted today, when there is still time, not tomorrow, when we do something under duress. The coalition may take this as a scarecrow, as a gathering of political points, but I see it as a real responsible move to adapt asylum policy to our capabilities right now. I said that the pressure from the south is strong and there are at least three arguments why it will be so in 2016, because conflicts will not end there tomorrow. Countries and certain individuals will have an interest in still forcing and sending people against Europe. On the other hand, you have Sweden, Germany and Austria, which have been most exposed in these days or in these months and years, and there the capacity has also been filled. Sweden has already begun to restrict itself. There is also a political problem because the majority of Parliament is conservative, but the left-wing government is a minority, and they are clearly told that the policy of open doors needs to be stopped, otherwise the budget for next year will not be adopted. So that's where politics will force them to stop. This week, I was at a CDU congress where there was a very wide debate on how Germany would handle these things. At the CDU Congress there was also a ministerial president of Bavaria who made it clear: look, CDU friends, we can have different views on how quickly we could reduce the number of migrants arriving in the country. It must be said here that the coalition partners of the CDU and the CSU agree that the number of migrants in Germany should be reduced. This is an important message for Slovenia in particular. But Mr Zehofer said that if you look real and find out how many people came to Germany in 2015, we do not survive such a raid in 2016, but we can be politically correct or incorrect. Why are these things important to us? Because when they start limiting things – because they will not say they are closing borders, they will say they are restricting – and when they do, we will no longer be able to transport the people taken over at the Croatian-Slovenian border only to transport forward to the Austrian border. When these things start to be substantially limited, you will see, and the pressure for asylum in Slovenia will be much greater. That's why it's a very bad argument today that the request is a little bit small, a little over a hundred, but you'll see, at the moment things start to stop in the north, there's going to be a lot of pressure in us. Believe me, someone who comes from Syria or Pakistan, or from Afghanistan, who sells all his assets there, goes a long way – to agree to return it then? Yes, if he cannot get some protection in Germany, he will also apply in Slovenia. That's what I think is gonna happen. With regard to the fence itself, it will now seem strange that I, as an opposition Member, am practically defending the coalition and the decision of your government, because now in public this relationship to the fence has started to change slightly, the public is critical and the media are critical and I am also looking at coalition Members, including some members of Desus, who have suddenly become critical of the fence. You know, this wind rotation doesn't make sense. I still think that the fence is meaningful at this point, but it makes sense for two reasons; it makes sense because of the symbolic message that we are sending down, that the policies of the open doors are over and that maybe someone will think twice before going on the road. And it is important because of one other thing – because it is the only defence mechanism against the intrigues of our neighbour Croatia. I'm sorry to have to say this, but I don't have a choice. Croatians have much worse options than us, Austrians are in a very simple position, they have caravans, they build a few kilometers of fences and they have a problem solved. Look, the Austrians are already working, the Austrians aren't doing much parliamentary work, but they've already responded to reactions in Sweden and Germany. We have to get along, too. But Croatia, if they make a border between Croatia and Serbia, still has an open border with Bosnia. But once people come to Bosnia, you know what width it is, and there is no way to protect their borders, and it is their interest, clearly, that these migrants will be transported to all the ends and places where they can be transported. Today it seems irrelevant and without connection, but you will see that when Croatia starts doing this, it will be the only defence mechanism. But I conclude with this: it is still time to adapt asylum legislation in a way that will help these people. We will not leave them hungry and thirsty and without a roof over their heads, we will give them these things, but this asylum aid needs to be adapted to our capabilities in a way that will not increase the conflict between the indigenous population and migrants.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Marko Ferluga has the floor to prepare Dr. Mitja Horvat. Here you go, Mr. Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. When it comes to international protection, there is always a very big difference between measures that can be sharp, which can be less acute, and we always come to this question of what needs to be done now, in what way, it will be acceptable both for our citizens and citizens and for the public and for everyone else. As we see from our political options, one is more for restrictive approaches, the other is for slightly less restrictive approaches. In my view, rapid and drastic measures are not appropriate, in my view, measures that are somehow preventive, disproportionate and deliberate in terms of the situation in question must be what I think our government is doing. I agree with the opposition and with this SDS proposal, which has somehow injected this debate on this revision of this asylum policy and this law on international policy itself. But we must take into account the facts, it is said, to follow European legislation and guidelines; it is said that these guidelines, which have now been set up in a broader European context, normally this Convention on the Status of Refugees and then somehow incorporate them into some real situation. I would like to thank Mr Tonin for this, I will say, moral assistance on this fence, around which, now that it is set up, we have once again such shared interests and opinions and that it is necessary and that it is not necessary. However, it is essential that what has already been limited and I would like to mention once again here that asylum policy must in fact be adapted to our capabilities, our resources. This is very important, and here I fully agree, and this work must also be built on. I therefore believe that these measures or those proposals, which have also been made by the Government, are thoughtful and proportionate to what they can do. But I think the opposition, I'll say, is much more drastic in these measures. Otherwise, the situation itself will show how and what, but I would focus on one important detail, which the government side is very good – and I think this is very smart – takes into account, and this is integration into Slovenian society. Even in the new proposal by the Government, these provisions and conditions for the period of eligibility to receive monetary compensation have been reduced from three years to eighteen months, and then by some possibility of extension for the next eighteen months, of course, provided that, in the first eighteen months, asylum seekers should be involved at least 80% in the Slovenian language course, because by doing so, they will automatically aim to try to assimilate themselves into this environment and somehow direct them to try to build their own, I will say, the possibility of survival in our country. The knowledge of the Slovenian language is, of course, crucial in this matter for inclusion in this society and I think that this direction is correct. Some violent, very drastic measures would not be acceptable. But what we have to say with regard to this allowance received by the asylum-seekers is that this is eighteen euros a month, it is said to be some kind of ridiculous number that I don't think anyone is allowed to stay and survive. And that's why all these refugees want to go to the northern states. That's theirs. It is said that our own policy, which the country has so far had, has been against the other European countries, Germany, Austria, and much more restrictive than others, so we have not been a target of some major incursions of requests and applications. But everything is possible to change. That's clear. Last but not least, I would say that in this proposal the government will also pay this one-off compensation at the amount of – I think 270 euros – will be abolished. Thus, all these government measures are following this European trend, as my predecessors have said, to tighten these conditions for the acquisition of asylum status. I think, however, that we must remain somehow European in that we are open to them, but that it is also clear, within what framework, it is said, in these frameworks, as has already been said, adapted to our capabilities in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Dr Mitja Horvat has the word to prepare Mr Tomaž Lisec. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u72	Thank you very much, chairman, for your word. Dear Members and Members of the Government! Today is actually a serious test day ahead of us. I am also pleased that you have participated in this debate on this subject in a large number and with interest, not only because you are proposing, but simply because it was your announcement that it was time to come together. Therefore, in my personal name, I must say that I appreciate the efforts and any constructive proposals resulting from the proposed law. Of course, I must say that the Government has answered what the possibilities are, where the borders are, so that time will not be lost at all today, because it is one of the exercises in style, so that we can then, even then, when we have a proposal from the Government before us, speak because I suppose you will come forward with the same proposals in the amendment as you did in this proposal of the law, so that we will have more than twice as much time at our disposal to agree on these matters in detail. As a matter of fact, I appreciate the effort and appreciate the well-meaning. I would just like to, given that we have entered or entered the year of mercy, and since unfortunately I have not seen anyone at the reception of the Bethlehem Light, which came into the National Assembly, so I am in little doubt. Therefore, I will make a reservation to these proposals, which, as stated in the introduction, I appreciate and are worth considering; if nothing else, so that we can talk about where we can go and where we cannot go. I hope that you will also be able to accept with understanding the arguments put forward by the Government in the part where it speaks of when the proposed amendments interfere with the current regime in the international field. Not as a criticism, as you have said, as you yourself have predicted, I expect a calm tone on my part, because it is a situation that we must take seriously and that, as we all know, is not appropriate at the level of the European Union. I therefore hope, of course, that you will tell your friends, who have a great influence in the European Parliament as well, that we want Europe to approach a comprehensive and common solution to a situation that has meaning for Europe as a whole. If never before, at least here in this case quickly and of course in a suitable way. We are talking about problems that are not just problems for me, they are also challenges for me. I like to use the case that in Chinese somehow there is not only a sign for the problem, but it is also an opportunity. So, something has happened to us that we did not foresee in either international acts or in our legal order; in short, it is the dimensions that you rightly point out and that we are, of course, trying to respond in an appropriate way. I understand the argument that things need to be resolved in time and in advance. Everything, as you well know, cannot be predicted by law, therefore it is very important that we find the best possible solution at a given time. Sometimes we have the first, and we have the second best option, and of course we will have to choose the right option. Or is it that, as you say, migrants are coming — and I am glad that we are now using a somewhat broader question, not just about migrants, about refugees, which also recognizes that in this crowd of people who are passing through, no one really knows who is in this crowd. We agree with this, we have no problems here and, of course, we believe that we will once again be able to resolve this fundamental dilemma. The dilemma ahead of us today, so I will not be talking about other areas of international protection, of course, is that part of the crowd that is passing through in need of protection – and I am also happy here that you agree that these people need to be helped for all human reasons. That two million people in such a restricted area will not be able to care for all millions of migrants, it is also clear to me and everyone, I believe, completely. Therefore, the migrants themselves will not be able to find a solution if they all stay or stop with us and that they should take care of everything in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia in the Republic of Slovenia. That is why I believe that such a situation will not happen. Or how, of course, now I'm leaving again because we're not solving this problem because we're dealing with the solutions you're offering to worry about our population. Here I would just like to say that most likely at this time, for all these reasons, it is not appropriate to talk about all the people who suffer with us. We are trying, you have tried, too, in the past; in short, this is the problem that we absolutely have to face, and if anything, we have also announced in the Modern Centre Party that we will try to do everything possible, that people in the Republic of Slovenia will live a decent life. I believe that it is those who are suffering that understand even the most those who are passing as migrants at a given time and about whom we would now like to resolve all the dilemmas with your proposal to protect us from the various abuses, inappropriate ways of acting if I have understood your purpose correctly, after reading and listening to what the main points are. It's a waste of time. I think it is necessary to take into account here the Government's argument that by shortening the deadline we cannot solve the problem and the question is whether there is a proportionality of action, so I have problems here. In particular, I would point out that our arguments, when they are presented, are not about opposition to proposals, but about the warning of something that is also in the European Constitution, not only indirectly, especially through the interpretation of the decisions of the Constitutional Court, but also part of our constitutional order; it is simply a principle that I believe we will have to take it into our hands several times, and I am also trying to do so, and I am striving to make the principle of proportionality, because we have it in the European Constitution, even to the greatest extent possible. I seriously believe that the question is whether the National Assembly should decide on quotas or not. I hope that we are not a little on the subject, on the one hand, we want the National Assembly to participate, and on the other hand, the National Assembly has been a long-standing process or space in which a solution is to be made. I still believe that the Government can be trusted, but of course we will also call on it, why it has decided to set a quota, why not, that we can re-think it. As the Government itself replied, when the Government will be able to change its decision quickly, if we consider the quotas as set out to be inappropriate. I think that this can also be taken into account in practice without amending the Law on International Protection. Something that especially intrigues me, and I'm going to release these articles 16 to 18, because some of Ferlug's colleagues have already spoken about them, and I believe there will be others. But article 23 is particularly interesting and worthy of serious consideration. For several years, I have been playing around with the idea of why in this country, in the executive branch of government in ministries, on state authorities and all those who have public authority to decide on administrative procedures, they always decide all possible things. Why, when it comes also to rights, obligations, legal benefits, why, as set out in the second paragraph of the General Administrative Procedure Act, it must always come to a decision and the whole process, including judicial protection, because I think that this is really one big weight of administration. So if, as a society, we are trying, even as far as we can, to remove administrative obstacles in the National Assembly, it seems to me that it is worth considering the idea of concluding a treaty between, in this sense, the State and the individual requesting international protection. Perhaps we are also on the threshold of such a sample example, where I could then also go to other areas – to go completely beyond the point of what all the consequences could have. Let's say that a building permit would also be a contract between, so to speak, a state or society and an investor who wants to build a specific facility for any different purpose, of course, in accordance with the rules. In short, I welcome the bold idea. Whether it is acceptable or possible in this case, or whether the State can contractually negotiate with the applicant in accordance with all international rules, this at this point, I must say, I have no final answer. But I think it is a very bold and interesting proposal, which I will be happy to be able to work on next; as we say, whether to adopt these proposals for changes to the law or to discuss further the Government's proposal. So much for the introductory or the beginning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u73	Procedurally, Dr. Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. Given that Mr SMC has now said so well how inspired the Bethlehem Light was, he would suggest that, at least on the board or, if possible, a print daşte, a vote on the Family Code, a novel that shames and destroys everything that the Bethlehem Light symbolizes. So much; to refresh the memory it would be good, unless, of course, it was that the Bethlehem Light inspired him, that you would now call people in the coalition to go to the referendum – and it is in line with the Convention on the Rights of the Child, with the UN's resolution on fundamental human rights and with the invitation of the Pope, thus in line with the Bethlehem Light – and vote against.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The speaker has the floor, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u76	Thank you very much. I thank my colleague Ferruga for the constructive debate. But at this point, something seems a little incorrect, and I'll tell you. You are constantly comparing your proposal for a law that you have tabled and that is not yet discussed with ours, but you are not comparing ours with ours. We filed it because yours wasn't there. We have said this and this can also be seen from the debates that we have repeatedly warned about this. I also said, otherwise not in my position as a proponent, because I was running out of time, but as soon as I came to know that this is the first reading and that there are certainly things that we can complement, that some things may not be exactly what they should be, but I also warned that many things are not as they should be in this country. And now to reject some marriage only because it may have a minor defect in one part, it seems to me in this sense somewhat incorrect, because it was somehow so from individual viewpoints to hear. As far as the allowance is concerned. I can agree in one part that this is not a high amount, but if we look at individual citizens on the other hand – I apologize if we expose them more than once – it is not about exploiting their situation, but it is also an important amount. Look, I was shocked at the time of the police strike when I watched the week when a cop who was rewarded with a sign from the president of the state cried in front of the cameras because she couldn't pay the bills. Surely, there is only €18 at the same rate. Not to get me wrong, but we weigh these things, so it's in the country. I would be happy to give every citizen something every month, but also to those who are in some way able to stay as pleasant as possible in this country. I am also grateful for Mr Horvath's exposure to that part that he finds interesting in marriage. As far as the Bethlehem Light is concerned, I personally have always been a bit moved by it, and it is important to me that it burns 365 days a year. That is also true in my values and in my heart. It is a pity, however, that this was not in the values of some yesterday when you voted on the law on primary education. In fact, personally, I have to take advantage of this now, I have had a child for several years in kindergarten and also in school, where it is important to burn the Bethlehem light 365 days a year. And they are not ashamed to talk about the Bethlehem light, nor is it something less valuable, but I had to pay extra for it. This is also a question worth doing in the future. In short, I am pleased that this proposal seems to you to be one option of good solutions, we have not been completely innovative here, even some other countries have some form of personal plan, but we have complemented it. As far as deadlines are concerned, it seems to me that this is not so insignificant, at least in the part where we say that the government proposal – if I am now answering here – states that the proposed deadlines follow the provisions of the directive. That's okay, we can agree with that. However, setting a time limit for a matter to be clarified and for international protection, an individual has to apply within three days, and it seems important to me that this is not in the government proposal. So this time can be very long; in the shortest possible time, it can be, you know, even in a year. I think there are important hands in such important matters. Last but not least, it also depends on how many applicants you can get into the country. If these hands are too long, I don't know how we'll be able to adapt. I think it is right that there is a time frame where either documents or some witnesses can be found or a person fulfils all the conditions. So much for the answer to the beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor. Get Dr. Vinko Gorenak ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u78	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Honourable representative of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! I didn't even feel that there was a migrant crisis in Slovenia at all, that every day it crossed our borders from about 2,000 to 5,000 asylum-seekers or migrants. In recent months we have dealt with all other matters, but it is right, given the obvious fact that the migration crisis is not only the problem of Slovenia, but of the whole of Europe, and that this crisis will probably not pass as soon as some have hoped when they said that when there is no degree or degree below zero there, migrants will say that they will no longer move into Europe, it is too cold. We've been able to detect such observations. The fact is that the predecessors have already said that the whole European Union is late in its search for solutions, and in particular by seeking appropriate solutions. But Slovenia has an important geostrategic role within the European Union or, if you want, a function. And it's called Schengen. I am surprised when our media say almost daily that it is not the Slovenian Schengen fault, the Greek Schengen is to blame. But those who have done at least primary school know that there are other countries from Greece to Slovenia. The fact is that because of the policy introduced in Spain, which was introduced in Italy, introduced in Hungary, Slovenia is a narrow throat for these refugees, and especially for migrants, so promised to enter the European Union, particularly in certain countries that are geographically north of us. Therefore, Slovenia should be even more self-initiative and not just wait for what will come from Europe, but when something comes from Europe, we have problems; whether we are even more papal than this Europe or we are late because we want to make a special policy for ourselves. It is interesting that not only Europe but Slovenia is late, especially this government. For example, if we look at the SDS website and all SDS proposals since June this year and see the responses of the current coalition and government to these proposals, they have always been rejected – in SDS scare, in SDS you have no idea, the SDS does not know what is saying So the Government is against. [[…]] But within two, three months, the government almost literally adopts SDS proposals, perhaps adding one, because changes within the EU are taking place not only on a monthly basis, but also on a weekly basis. An example when we said in the Slovenian Democratic Party that we have migrants – no, refugees, refugees, refugees. Today we hear very little about refugees, but we hear just what we said at the Slovenian Democratic Party: migrants. This is also important from various laws, how important it is for all those arrivals who cross our southern border as well as the northern border or border with Austria, to be treated on this basis. The second example, besides the word "migrators" and refugees, is a technical obstacle. When we said the fence in the Slovenian Democratic Party, they said – again SDS scares. The President of the Government had so many problems with the questions put forward that he was not condemned by the word fence that he was talking about technical obstacles. Now they have gone a step further, at least in my personal opinion it is far more dangerous than a technical barrier or fence — a new wire. Simply practical — do you imagine that a technical obstacle would be put on the stadiums? To have a barbed wire instead of a fence. We don't even hope to imagine what happened in the stadiums when they had these technical obstacles when they were even victims in individual European cities. Even today, especially the Members of the United Left point out how humane it would be if we had what we proposed in the SDS a long time ago, but the government feared this as the devil of the cross – they would simply fence. What they're doing in Austria; but no, we've taken a step forward and some, apparently, strange paths have been given a barbed wire. Now let me go to this marriage of ours. Today we have heard from the coalition and representatives of coalition parliamentary groups that the government is preparing the law and wants to talk about this law, but we have prepared changes to the existing law, not your theoretical ideas, how you will change the law, come with a systemic solution and therefore reject our proposal because ours is partial and coalition laws are systemic. And our initiative did not just come because we are afraid, our initiative came from what is happening in practice within the European Union and with migrants and what is happening not only within the European Union as a whole but within the European Union as a whole. And all those so-called promised countries, if you want the Scandinavian countries, at least two-thirds of Scandinavian countries, introduce a very restrictive migrant policy, and I wonder for myself whether they do the same as in health care: better prevention than curative. For they themselves are aware that not even after this humane wage, which we are all defending, nor after this security side will they be able to fulfil in the long term all that is written in their internal laws and in the directives of the European Union. For if we look at the forecasts of individual international institutions, what is supposed to happen in the area of the migration crisis in 2016 and in the coming years, we will come up with very large numbers of future migrants coming to Europe. Europe will have to ask itself, like Slovenia, when to say when to stop, when to start re-establishing the Schengen that we have at our border, and when to say that it is enough that our accommodation capacities cannot, purely on humane and on the safety side, more with daily inflows of so many and so many thousands of migrants. Thus, we are not the first in line here, but also our law follows certain solutions that have already been implemented or will be implemented briefly in many countries of the European Union. Perhaps it has been said too little today, even though I am afraid that I will be called impatient, about the financial aspect of the financial crisis. I really don't want to scare you, but I have to say that he was very surprised himself when Minister Marble said that every migrant cost the country 10,000 euros a year. We recall the debate on the adoption of the budget when we said how much we have to give exclusively for migrants, and here are other aspects. A few days ago, I received the Ministry of Infrastructure's response on how much this ministry will have to give to deal with the migration crisis, how much they have already paid for transport and we will have problems at other levels. The railway composition is about to collapse. You all know, those old dumplings we used to ride with will only be for waste and for cutting, buying new Siemens or anything else, and this country will cost something. Not to mention all these costs, which are in fact more at human level than exclusively financial, how many Slovenians and Slovenes are either way outside of the working hours they perform – police, financial administration, the military, health homes, in particular in those areas – how many hours have been spent by volunteers in the resolution of this migratory crisis. Therefore, it seems to me that the individual proposals that we have made in the SDS Group, after defining the period within which the competent authority must decide on the recognition of the status of international protection, must be made on the basis of a charter, but not that, as at least in Posavje, we all laugh that all arrivals are Mohammedi, born 1. 1. 1995. I find it difficult to accept a refugee who seeks asylum in a safe country such as Slovenia, so that he does not have a charter. I believe that at the moment of military force, someone has forgotten, but I believe that a lot of people have lost their assets, but you don't have any document with you to show who you are, but I'm a little bit attracted to my hair, especially because I know the case in practice when colleagues from Slovenian Railways, as well as the police and financial administrations, were talking about how these migrants were smoking all the documents they had left behind because they found it easier. For them, perhaps, but for those of us who are in Schengen, this is much more difficult. Other solutions are also: the deadline within which a foreigner wishing to enter Slovenia must express his intention, a personal interview that will be clear, purely humane, a humanitarian solution, and also, in my opinion, an annual quota of persons. Because I think that both we and the legislators and the Government must ask ourselves what our accommodation facilities are. Whether we will be looking for new and new accommodation facilities in 2016 or we will say that we can do so because of spatial conditions, because of financial conditions and all the other conditions, we can accept migrants or asylum seekers that much. The proposal also deletes one-off cash assistance and changes the provision of accommodation and nutrition. As an asylum-seekers, as a refugee, I think it is crucial that the country first and foremost take care of accommodation and nutrition. I'm not going to say that social assistance is a luxury, by no means, but first we start off with basics, if we solve this, then we can talk about other things. That is why I agree that it is right for all those who wish to request to sign a contract containing the rights and duties of the person and among them learning the Slovenian language. I believe that if an asylum student comes to Slovenia, asking him to stay here for at least a year, he is right to know little about this country. Not the way we looked when you said we were in front of Germany. If someone has a serious goal of staying in Slovenia, but not here asking for asylum, so that the next day can be more north, then we will have a problem again when they return. Because I believe that as soon as possible this migrant crisis will turn around and when these stronger European countries start to work, as they say they will exacerbate the migration crisis, we will again be Slovenians, or Slovenia, who will face the key problem. I think the solutions are very consistent and solid. As the proponent has said before, we are the first to be considered and I do not really agree that the marriage will be rejected, because the government law will be better, because we have introduced the law according to what we already have in marriage. I don't even agree to hint at some unconstitutional solutions. Yesterday we had one attempt to change the constitutional decision in the legislation, and it was those Members of those parties who today say that perhaps it is unconstitutional, that you easily rejected it. No problem! We're going to be in violation of the constitution for six months. What are they?Oh, my God! It's totally different today! The fear of unconstitutional solutions already dictates that you vote against this law. Honourable Members of the Coalition, at least one meeting of the National Assembly, stick to your track, not by law to change our opinion; we will once oppose constitutional solutions, because we do not like it, and the second time in the second law, because we do not like everything on the basis of the fact that there is only one mistake in this legislation, and this is to send it to the National Assembly. I agree and really hope that what my colleague Horvath has said, that we will discuss this subject, not to make an ideological fight out of it, but to ask what Slovenia can offer, what Slovenia can offer, and what it can give to all those who come to our place called the sovereign state of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word to prepare Dr. Dragan Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u80	Thank you very much. It's enough to say it's a little short of time, but I'm still gonna try to figure out why this marriage of ours came about. [[…]] Because you didn't do anything up there in the interior ministry and in the government in the coalition, and nothing else. There are no more countries on this route from Macedonia to Germany that would not change this law. She's gone! Germany, which said no euro in pocket; you say that 18 euros is small. Yeah, it can't be anything, not 18 euros! If the Germans don't give anything, we will give it — or how?Oh, my God! In short, everyone's changed the law, except for us. And these few articles, which have been amended, I believe that the principal, as I once said on the committee that is with us — I have known her for too long — would have done both between lunch and lunch, in 24 hours. He's been doing this his whole life, and it could have been done in 24 hours, even if I were there, you know. The only problem is that this government doesn't want to do this and that this government is waiting for the last one. Now we've got a new marriage ahead of us. I just got it. If the coalition had any salt or good intentions, as Mr Horvat was talking about, then the procedure would merge the committees into a so-called hybrid law, which means that it would combine ours and the government and the entire text together to do something that this country needs. But well, this coalition isn't capable of it, but it would be too bad. You know, I've already put a few coalitions through, but, uh, excuse the expression, but there weren't any fools. Stupid, yeah! Why? Because each coalition knows exactly what must be taken into account by the opposition. That's one. Second, why marriage is urgently needed. Marriage is urgently needed because we can no longer give to strangers than to our people and because we can receive as many foreigners as we can survive. Pika, amen, over. If our house has 10 beds and there are 9 members of the family, then we can accept one, of course I'm talking about the parable of the country and the family. And no more. Because we don't have anywhere else to put her to sleep. You guarantee that quotas are a problem. Yeah, there's quotas already! Only the government determines them, and then the National Assembly will. You know, whoever's a little patriot will already be planning things in a way that will take as many foreigners as possible into the house. This country is unable to accept thousands of them, but it's not going together. Because if we accept 6,000, the Germans are a million — depending on the economic power and the number of inhabitants. You just have to tell them we can't. We're the only ones who can't do this because we can't protect borders. This is a problematic matter, and this is very problematic. One euro is not acceptable to me, one euro more than it is to our citizen. As long as our citizen is 40 years of working time for the machine, he will receive EUR 434 of minimum pension for the machine and 833 for the asylum seeker, then something is wrong in the head of this coalition. Then there's something wrong with this government. I believe people will tell them that too. You can't give a stranger 833 euros, and yesterday he came across the border, and yesterday he came across our citizen, who worked behind the machine for 40 years, and 434. It's unnatural, it's stupid. That's not acceptable. That's not acceptable! We have also introduced into the law a provision whereby someone who is suspected of serving a crime or a crime can no longer ask for asylum or be in the process, but send it across the border and home. That makes sense. That's what the Germans have in mind. In the coalition and the government, you said something so you could be against the conventions. But it's not like there's anything against conventions. Oh, my God! But how is it in Slovakia, how is it in Poland, when they say, we will accept those Christian beliefs. Pika and amen. Is that in accordance with the Convention, Government? Is that in accordance with the conventions? Director, teach the Secretary of State who is not his motherland. It's not, because I don't mean anything bad, because you can't know everything because you're not aware. Madam Director has been doing this her whole life, and she knows it. Now tell me if the Czechs act in accordance with the conventions, the Poles said they would accept only those Christian religions and the Slovaks said. The Slovaks even initiated proceedings against the European Commission; and they said to the quotas: nothing. Is this in line with the conventions and European legislation? If it is, tell me. I don't think so. Therefore, it is not necessary to be more papal than the pope in Litostrojski, because of me it may be against any convention, if it is in the interest of the Slovenian people and residents in this country. Why is that in Poland or Slovakia? Come in. Look, Mrs Muršičeva, since then you can talk from the bench there, you're probably on duty in SD today. Why is it so painful that there could be a conflict in our marriage? See, in our marriage there could be something unconstitutional — where, on the water, or where do you sense it? I don't know where that comes from. Yesterday, when we wanted to ensure constitutionality from the point of view of that educational law, you were against it. You know, my meter is 100 centimeters, and you can't fuck it up together, and yours is smurpantel. What's the difference? You can't have a smurf for a meter, that's not working. The meter may be firm or inextricable. It can unfold, anything is possible, only Smurfatel is not a meter away. Let's move on. Now, Mr Vatovac – I don't know if there's any point in talking about him if he even knows what he's talking about. He doesn't know – or what it's like there? God forgive him! Or what do they call it? They don't know. What they're saying or doing. He talked about 100 applications for asylum and about the majority leaving Slovenia. Of course, he forgot the point of getting them back! By the way, pensioners were selling data that 59 of them applied for asylum, tell him to update his data. I don't know how accurate the information is, but the one I last saw on the official was 105, but I believe there's more to it now. I don't know how much. And then someone says that because most of them have gone, they don't have a problem with them anymore. [[…]] If they have been properly registered, as the legislation says, then every European country has the right to return them to us. It means that all asylum seekers you've registered under legal procedure will be returned. This is what you would expect, Secretary of State, to tell all Members. The question is, how is it with those, I don't even know how many, the others, because you say you took their fingerprints. At first it was 3,000 then it was 6,000, said the director of police in one day, how much this data is now, and I don't know anymore, because then it was about 30,000. Although this is a little difficult for the public, but I have no other option, I will tell you if you have violated the legislation and you have not introduced them into the system – thank God! Thank God that's what you did if you did it. But if you've registered these 3, 6, or 36 thousand -- I don't know how many there are -- under all the Schengen rules, and then you're going to drive them away, because we're going to get them back. I don't know what their status is – explain this! First of all, how many of them are with those fingerprints: either there's 3,000, or there's 6,000, or there's 35 grand, I don't know how many. If the meeting has to be closed, as it can also be closed, procedures are therefore envisaged. The only real fact is if they're registered under the Schengen system entered into the Schengen system, we'll get them back. But if you were in violation of the law and you hid those fingerprints, then you acted in a state-of-the-art way. Thank God. I don't know what you did. Tell me! The pensioner's representative, Mr. Wilphan, said that 59 had asked for them, 39 had received them. I don't know if you're really saving applications for asylum this fast, are you? Sometimes you didn't. I hope you haven't approved 39 of them by now. However, if this information is accurate that Mr Wilphan has given, I would be very happy if you would tell it. I don't think you're that fast, but if you've become so generous after my departure, there's another problem. But as I understand it, you're not like that. Annual quotas are unacceptable to Desus How? If the government determines them, are they all right — or how? It doesn't work together. Mr Tonin spoke of the danger of giving an impression of the privilege of migrants I think that the one who can listen on average to transfers from the National Assembly, who can look a little bit at how much one and one is, and the one who listened to the finance minister, is quite clear that they are privileged. [[…]] Yeah, how come they're not privileged?Oh, my God! 833 euros a month for them. For one of them, of course, the asylum seeker, that we are on the clear ground that no one will think that all 300,000 will be. Yes, but if our citizen has €434 of those small pensions, not to speak to those below, then this is a privileged position. And thank God the Slovenian citizens know that! And it's right that they know and they need to know about this. They need to know. Look, the fence: yes or no. Those who have already soft legs now who are already ashamed of you because of the fence or whatever; be not ashamed of you, we wanted the fence in September, we warned you about it, but you said we were afraid. Now you've bought that barbed-up firm, those from the Zalac who sits there like you – that's not corruption, Stefanec has already said that it's not corruption if it was the government of Janez Janša, and it would be corruption – that's where the smurpantel criteria are. You're going to be the fence of Hudiman, you're going to make it to the end, and you're not going to listen to some local moons, and I can't tell them anything else that doesn't know what a country is that sees its fish in Kolpa. [[…]] Make the door open for the fish to go fishing. Okay. But in the interest of this country, in the interest of the two million people we live here, the border is secured. Local people, mayors – I don't know who's protesting everything right now – but you have to tell them, and that's what you have to do to give these people a normal life. And if that's it, I don't know, a ramp in the barbed wire, but there's a ramp in the barbed wire and the lock up there has to get the key. That's fine, too. Or a hunter, or a fisherman, or whatever it is. But the border must be secured and it is right to do so and have no bad conscience — one who is already looking to the ground. There's no reason to look into the ground. The border has to be secured. It would be wise to protect it, just as the Austrians do it, and just as the Hungarians did it, and not like you put those reels in those fields. That's not enough in my opinion. Mr Horvath is also an interesting man: he appreciates the opposition's efforts, but he votes against. So, I realize you're hungry, but I'm not gonna let you eat. This looks about the same: it appreciates the opposition's efforts, but it is against. If you appreciated the opposition's efforts, then the government law would combine this law to make a hybrid. I don't know if you've figured it out. Ask an old LDS expert what a hybrid is. They know that. This would be cooperation with the opposition, but it's not. In short, if I finish, I will say this: there is still a time when we will study this marriage of yours, which came yesterday, to see what it says in there, and if we will consider and assess, of course, that this law needs some amendments, we will also prepare them. Of course they will go in the direction of restrictions, not in the direction you have, say, the United Left wants to open the borders – Willkommen, but Welcome to you, what would write on every spruce. It's their tactic. It won't be ours. Of course, with the amendments, we will try to complement the matter where we think it is necessary, and if we come together to some normal law, to some law that will protect the interests of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, of course, and allow what is minimal to the people who are in distress, we will also have to make it possible, then we will be able to support this law. Indeed, I would then ask the representatives of the interior ministry to tell you how many asylum applicants there are, how many applications have been saved. Please, if you tell all the ladies and gentlemen that all those who have escaped are not our happiness, but the fact that we will get them back, because we must get them back, and we must even take them back. But I'm especially interested in what's going on with the fingerprints now. I don't know if you'll close the session if it's a state secret or not. But, unfortunately, I have to say I don't know how many there are, three, six or fifty thousand, and what's with the fingerprints. I'm very interested in that. If this went into the Schengen system, then in my opinion you did the wrong thing. But if you have them in some warehouse in Gotenica, it's fine, but you'll do my best. In short, some of this data, I hope we get it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Dr. Dragan Matić has the word. Get Mr. Dusan Radič ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. The speaker spoke of privileges. If it's a privilege to travel a few thousand kilometers, stay in the mud at zero degrees or even less, cover yourself with some outfits, offer you some help, and then at the border they question you, control you, and then if you're lucky, after a few weeks you come as an azilante, they recognize you as an asylum in a country, and they settle you in an old army where you get three times a day soup and a warm meal, and in our case, 18 euros a month, if that's a Mr. Gorenak privilege, then this privilege is from the bottom of my heart. I think it's cynicism, conversion of facts. The fact is, all of Europe is facing the phenomenon of this migratory or refugee crisis, as you wish, unfortunately, that there is not yet a final answer to this phenomenon that has happened. At least we do not yet have a common response from European countries. The fact is that our country and our government are responding in proportion to the events that are taking place. Some have criticised at the outset that the state does nothing, from the Brežic area, Circulan, Haloz, that refugees walk uncontrollably across to cause disorder in their settlements, that fields are contaminated by excrement and so on. In other areas where the fence is now being built, however, it is protesting how inhumane and so on. It seems like in any case something is wrong if something is done or not. I am convinced that the answers are proportionate to the situation that exists. Slovenia is a transit country. This fence at the border is not because the refugees themselves would want to cross uncontrolledly in the Strelci, wherever they might seem, but because someone else has sent them in the past like them, and there is a risk that when they realize that the border in the north is going to close, they will want to get rid of the refugees in their own country and try to push them over uncontrolledly. Therefore, it makes sense that these technical obstacles are set out to allow so many refugees to arrive at entry points and can then, on the basis of a government proposal under the International Protection Act, be treated appropriately, adopted in accordance with European legislation, international standards that have already been found to be at a lower level and that we do not, in any way, promise our asylum seekers to drain between and milk compared to others. As the international refugee crisis continues in the future, we do not know, we do not have a crystal ball. Whether they will agree to take more decisive action in the Middle East and settle the situation there to the extent that it will no longer be necessary to flee from these parts of the world, as the agreement with Turkey will be, we do not know all of this. However, I am sure that the government will be able to respond as it has been so far. Relatively, this is said, not to stock, not to build some kind of Berlin wall, but to take measures that are an appropriate response to the situation. Slovenia is not a target for people who want to stay here as asylum seekers. I don't know exactly, but I don't think it's relevant at this point. But I believe, as it is said, that we will succeed in line with developments that will happen in one direction or another, I still hope that Europe will be able to find a common language in the near future. I hope this thing works out positively. However, it will certainly be interesting to hear from Mr Gorenak, because he will probably explain how he calculated these 800 and more euros. It's probably a cost of heating, accommodation or something, because from these materials that I have at my disposal, it's 18 euros per month of allowance. However, that unique contribution to accommodation has been abolished or will be abolished in this government amendment, which the government promises in its version of the Law on International Protection. I think these criticisms are exaggerated in the sense that the government is doing nothing not to respond. I am still convinced that it complies with the principle of proportionality and that it responds appropriately and in sufficient time intervals to events as they follow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The replica has Dr. Vinko Gorenak, get Mr. Zvonko Lah ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Where's 833 euros coming from? From your finance minister. He said that at the annual level, one asylum seeker costs 10,000 euros. If you share this with 12 months, you get 833 euros. That information is sitting, I think. A day later or two after that statement, the data was even published at an annual level of EUR 13 000. But I believe more of what we heard from the minister and the minister said. This is your minister, then he has to hold. If you compare this data, 833 euros, it's not heating, I don't know if it counts in there, I don't know exactly what's in it. But I'm sure it's the care of the asylum seeker at the annual level. That's Minister Mumorr's information. And we can't get past that. And if these 833 euros are not a privilege to a citizen who has walked for 40 years, he has left bloody blisters to these companies, factories, and I don't know everything, but he has 434 or so per month, then it's a privilege. And I'm just saying, and there's something else that's privileged. Look, 800 euros, as you said, is zero euros in Germany. Zero, bed three meals. That's all they got. It's a German reality. We have a bed and three meals and 18 euros. And that's why I'm saying. I know 18 euros isn't much, but no euro has to be. We must be equal to the Germans or more restrictive than the Germans, because they are richer. That's the problem. And there's something else that I'm not going to waste my time, because I haven't seen it yet. See left-wing ideology is that -- poor, poor. [[…]] But you need to see the whole thing, not just the poor. Our media shows that mother with the baby, the stings on her heel, there we see someone who had, I don't know, worms on his feet – yes, that's also reality. But reality is also the opposite. Reality is also that man, aged 25 or 30, who is found by police officers 100 thousand euros in his pocket. That's reality, too. We should both take a look. It's a reality. And you know, I will conclude with this – those whom we see at the borders, these are not the poor, these poor, they have stayed at home. They have nothing, they don't even have enough to pay for smugglers. What went on was a richer layer. That's what you need to know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Primož Hainz has the floor to prepare Mr Franc Jurša, then Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! I have to say that we're talking today about a subject we've talked about at least three times. But, well, if that's the case, then of course we'll be out for the fourth time. I must say that these are the legal issues that we are talking about today, and I must say that this legal side is somewhat less occupied by me, regardless of whether we are in the legislative part of the body, but still more of me this political side. But the political side is that in all these things we must remain humanly logical and understandable as is appropriate. So not as European as they call it. I am not for Europeanism, because Europe is very fragmented here. I'm for being civil, for being honest, human. Europe knows Orban, which we received a month ago on a platter, as if it were something special, something good, Europe has also been a fascism in the past and so on. So I don't think about Europeanism, I stress, I think we have to be human. And as far as human wages are concerned, it is quite clear that if Angela Merkel says that in Germany they have to reduce the number of refugees drastically, as we have learned today, then this is a slightly different picture than we do, because in Germany, regardless of the higher standard, there are more than one fifth of foreigners already today. And of course, the difference is that it is quite clear that we are one of the most closed countries in this Europe, the cleanest if you want, countries in Europe. And the blind no one has received the status of a citizen in our country, so that we can boast about it and at this point we have already closed up a lot. Of course, what I've already said three times, but of course we have to be real. We have also set up a fence from this need for reality. This fence, I'm going to say, somehow it's not my taste, I have to say, I'm not thrilled with these razor blades, and I see that now the government is fixing it and setting up a different fence there so that the animals don't get hurt. I think that's the only way that's actually the only way I'm going to say it again, human. And the last thing I have to say is, in a way, I still don't think it would hurt to have a common law in this law that some of the coalition are considering as something that's being prepared, and this particular law, so they would do something together. Because I think that this would be the best way to prove a common solution in Slovenia and it would be easier, the legislative path would be completely clear and even simpler. But what I am saying is that I am ending it, but the fact that some of the debates today were also such that they were very frightening people, which at the moment, I do not think there is a real reason. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor. Mr. Primoz Hainz, microphone. Thank you. Now it's gonna work.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u88	My colleague Hainz didn't shut down, but of course I couldn't get myself on. Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State with co-worker! Look, in the National Assembly, we've said quite a lot of words in the past about the refugee migration theme. It is right that we are discussing this issue, as it is very much affecting the country of Slovenia and also every resident living in Slovenia. This does not mean that this question is only about our country, but it is a global issue. This was not the case with the massive departure of migrants from their countries to Western and Northern Europe after World War II. The problem, as I mentioned earlier, touches every individual. Of course, more and more individuals living in these areas, where the flow of refugees goes the most massive. Remember how we reacted when Croatian neighbours brought refugees to the border and sent them uncontrolledly to our country's territory. We were very unhappy, and at the same time we were saddened that the Croats did not even want to talk to us for a while about how to deal with these matters together. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, of course I have the information I received, because I attended some meetings, kept talking about this issue. This issue was initially focused on purely other objectives than when this mass migration took place across our territory. I estimate that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has done all those tasks that were essential for us to manage this migration crisis in Slovenia as well. I'm not saying that some others who might run this government wouldn't do anything else. We'd probably have some other methods. The most sensitive thing in the first phase was uncontrolled transition. In the second phase, when the government decided to put up technical obstacles, so named, or wire, it was the next problem, which in some way touched mainly those residents living along the border. We know, we hear the latest reactions of individual mayors of our municipalities, neighbouring Croatian municipalities, Italian municipalities, not to mention. You know, he's probably looking at this a little bit further. The information available is in this direction that the refugee crisis is far from over and that in some ways this flow must be managed. All of this will be significantly easier until it is said in northern Europe, until it is said in Western Europe: "Now this refugee flow will also plague our countries." Then what can happen in Slovenia is what we fear the most, that there will be a pocket here where a large number of migrants will emerge. I wouldn't be talking about the composition of migrants right now. We know how many economic migrants they come from and how many are the right ones that are in some way in need of this international protection. Those first ones, according to some, are significantly more than those others. But there has to be a social note in us, there must also be a sensitivity to these people, who, in fact, are either economic immigrants or refugees, in fact, are fleeing because of something. Probably not because they lived well in their countries. Especially because there was no good life there because there was violence there because there was war there. And not only in humanitarian organisations, but also in all citizens and citizens, it must be a basis for us to think about this. In any case, the security of our country, our citizens and our citizens is also very important. And that, of course, we must not forget. On 15 December, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia introduced the law. We know that many of these matters are regulated in accordance with European regulations and are already in Slovenian legislation. Some of them are not yet and will, in some ways, be introduced by a new bill, which will be adopted on a regular basis, on the basis of regulations that have also been adopted in the last period. I am sure that in Slovenia we will adopt such a law that will somehow be friendly to migrants and will also protect us, our citizens, citizens, as well as those who live in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u89	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer will be given the floor. First, the representative of the Government, State Secretary to the Ministry of the Interior, Mr Andrej Špenga, will be given the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u90	Yes, thank you, Madam President. Many questions were raised or comments were made on the preparation of a new law, which, as you know, was referred to the National Assembly. The essential news, as you mentioned, will be a brief introduction. They represent, as you said, the so-called deterrence effect, which is a fact. The procedure for the recognition of international protection is one such key chapter. The proposal will allow for the rapid and effective treatment of those for whom they have already found, at the outset, that they obviously do not need international protection. The law limits itself to the possibility of reappealing. The possibility of re-appealing should the applicant voluntarily leave the asylum home will also be limited. Where the applicant voluntarily leaves the asylum home, there is also a new possibility of mouriting, i.e. substantive decision making. The law also regulates certain border procedures. Another important chapter is the rights of the applicant for international protection and of persons with recognised international protection. Here, the existing level of rights of applicants for international protection and persons with international protection is maintained, which in the vast majority already represent only minimum standards and therefore cannot be reduced in this area. Therefore, the Member States of the European Union must take these into account in accordance with the current European legal order. However, the single cash assistance granted to persons with international protection in accordance with the law currently in force is abolished, amounting to EUR 270. The right of a person with subsidiary protection to financial compensation for accommodation for family members shall also be abolished. So the sponsor gets it, the other members don't get the refund. We also introduce, as you have already stated between your questions, what is the integration of these people. The law will also establish that a compulsory presence will also have to attend the integration course if he wishes to receive an applicant with a recognised status, an allowance for accommodation in private capacity. This will have to be attended by 80%. Otherwise, if the latter does not wish to participate, he will not receive compensation either. Colleague Anja Bah Žibert asked how many Member States do not yet have regulated legislation in accordance with EU rules. You asked that question, I wrote it down, and I'll answer it. It is true that 19 Member States, including Slovenia, have not yet transposed all directives, so the Government has approved a new law on international protection, with which we will also harmonise our legislation. So integration courses for persons with international protection already contain essential elements, applicants are familiar with constitutional regulation, history, lifestyle in Slovenia and others, so this is not excluded. The new proposal for an international protection law will, as I have already mentioned, link this integration course with the payment of international compensation. You mentioned some crime indicators, if there's a suspicion of a crime, you mentioned drugs, weapons and so on. What you're talking about is a violation of the house order. The sanctions that you mentioned, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, relate to the provisions of the violation of the house order. However, if an applicant for international protection or a fugitive commits a crime, he is, of course, prosecuted, treated in accordance with criminal law and is also criminally responsible. And these two aren't being ruled out. It's about integration contracts. Slovenia has the applicable practice of the so-called Personal Integration Plan, which allows an individual approach based on the needs of the individual refugee, their qualifications, that is, their skills, which also enables the State to enable that person to integrate more rapidly into our society and to work more quickly later. The new bill suggests for the first time that the Government also attend an integration course that will have financial implications or financial implications for the applicant. So if he does not visit the latter, he will also receive reductions, or he will not have this financial compensation. Mr Gorenak, in the meantime, asked how many asylum seekers we have so far and how many applications have been saved. I can tell you that we've been since 1. 1. By 2015, they had 265 applications for international protection. During this period 224 applications for international protection were granted and 43 were granted status. So 32 was recognized as a fugitive and 11 as a subsidiary form of protection. In a 17-year-old refugee wave. 9. 2015 to yesterday 16. 12. In 2015, 130 applications were submitted for the recognition of international protection. And there were 45 requests from this refugee wave, 4 requests from these 45 were granted and the status of the fugitive was recognized. I can tell you the latest statistics, of which we have 29 Iraqi citizens, 26 Afghanistan, 18 Pakistan, 15 Iran, 10 Syria and so on. You're asking, Mr. Gorenak, about quotas. When we are talking about quotas and a resettlement project or so-called resettlement from third countries, for example, from Turkey, the country that takes over refugees may also lay down certain criteria mentioned by some other countries, i.e. the religious restrictions mentioned by you, or that they need to know a particular language or something similar. This process is carried out through the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, who has been monitoring it for years. In this way, we did not limit these quotas in Slovenia, as you mention, but to the current migration crisis, which is in Slovenia, we will proceed with the delay to realize the latter, so we will not realize the first 30 by the end of the year, as we said at the beginning. When persons enter our territory spontaneously across the green border, they are limited, as you mention, by technical obstacles. When they arrive, we bring them to reception points, reception centres and they have the right to proceedings and international protection. And this is in accordance with the Convention. We cannot limit this to any quota that we would prescribe ourselves. Quotas to be restricted, those applicants arriving at border crossings or across the green border. The other is the reallocation quota. We also mentioned fingerprints. In accordance with the Dublin Regulation, as we have already said several times, Slovenia has taken the fingerprints of all applicants for international protection, i.e. all 130 of which I have mentioned, and has placed them in the EURODAC European system. To date, up to 12 noon, it is estimated that some over 332 thousand migrants have arrived in Slovenia. However, to all other migrants who came from Croatia in this migration process, Slovenia was not obliged to take the fingerprints and put them into the EURODAC European system and did not provide them. Croatia was the first safe country of asylum on this route and therefore this is an obligation of the Republic of Croatia. However, the police are in the process of identification and registration, even when the security check is carried out, as you know, all migrants are registered, they are carried out at every security check, and in this procedure, in accordance with Article 41 of the Law on the tasks and powers of the police for security reasons, they have taken fingerprints but keep them in their national system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u92	Thank you very much. To re-emphasize, the bill was created because the Government, to which we have repeatedly addressed the issue and the call for asylum legislation to be regulated and adapted to the current situation, did not respond. And it's not about not being sensitive or feeling with these people. I find these comparisons and the return to World War II, Mr Hainz, really totally inappropriate. Sometimes it is good to go a little further, perhaps at the time of the Judgment, and you will see that similar violations have occurred. What do we want with the bill? Simply tighten the conditions for security reasons and to adapt the legislation to the capabilities of the State of Slovenia. We cannot look at people, we have 300,000 at the edge of poverty or below the threshold, and on the other hand, we allow migrants more than our own citizens. This is marred by a healthy farmer's cleverness. Earlier it was said — how did this number come to be? I have here the answer to the question. Payment of one-off cash assistance, accommodation in an integration house, cash compensation for private accommodation, health care, social protection, assistance in integration, learning Slovenian language and so on. In short, this is the amount that will lead to the number 10,000 that your minister was talking about. If I go back a little bit more to how the government even dealt with these migrant or refugee issues. Let me remind you of the 31st document. 8. When Croatia was already flooded, they literally did not know how to turn. We've seen this flow, this wave of migrants coming to Slovenia. So look at the forecasts and scenarios of our government. The arrival of several groups of 20 to 40 foreigners to Slovenia – very likely. The arrival of several groups of 40 to 80 foreigners – probably. The arrival of 200 foreigners at once — possibly on foot — is less likely. It's a government document. That's how we went about solving the migrant crisis. And that's why we had those people in the mud. Earlier it was said that some were standing in the mud. Because we did not do it in time and in the right way, so even in our country, they were in the mud for some time, even though all those who worked directly there were still working hard. And what do we propose to our marriage? I would go back again if the objective of asylum policy was not integration. The goal of asylum policy is to help someone who needs as long as this threat lasts. However, the integration plan, respected, does not replace what we propose. It's a contract. You're saying they're gonna have to go to some teaching program. What about the conclusion? They're gonna have to finish it with some test, some knowledge check? That's not what it's all about. We're talking about annual quotas. That's been said many times. I think that this arrangement, given what else may be ahead for us, would be better and would be discussed by the National Assembly. We are abolishing all forms of monetary assistance following the example of Germany. Look, last but not least, we're not just talking about heights. I've said before that it's even more controversial for our individual citizens. We are also talking about whether this money is being used wisely or not to obtain the material that people need. Finally, we can benefit more from this, and sometimes it is more beneficial for people who come. We're also sharpening our income. It is about limiting time limits and knowing exactly what an individual from our country expects and what we can expect from the fact that he has to plead immediately, and then in three days it also proves that it is actually the status of an international protection person. I mentioned earlier that we have several laws in Slovenia, and I did not just point out this ministry, which does not have all the directives included, and we are constantly adapting it for a second time. And I said that even if there's something at stake here, it can certainly be fixed in another reading. However, I warn you, other countries have also sharpened this legislation, and it is time for Slovenia to do so too. If the government, even though it had an hour of time, in particular took advantage of the fact that it presented its proposal, if now the only reason is that there must be your proposal for a law in any way, then I do not see the problem here. You're acting on the system, just that it's ours. For us in the Slovenian Democratic Party, it is particularly important that this legislation is tightened and adapted to the situation in the country. There was a lot of talk about scaring us. People are scared, we're not. But you know what you're doing? Instead of solving the situation with legal measures, with timely measures, not in some horrifying way, as has been the case in recent months, you are co-financed by filmmaking. That's what the state has the money for. You know what, I told you before, if we don't take action, we're going to be really all migrants, because the country just won't be able to do it. This video is co-financed by the Ministry of the Interior. This seems unacceptable to me right now, given that we have not done everything in other areas. One more time. The proposal also seems good in view of the final step that we have been calling all the time in the Slovenian Democratic Party, come on, come on, come on. Secondly, to sharpen those areas where we can actually sharpen things and adapt them to the situation in the country. And for the third time, it's particularly important that we stop pretending. This is a problem, this is a Slovenian problem and we need to solve it in Slovenia. No one else will do it for us.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u93	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. Please, for your application. If a representative of the Government and a representative of proposalant Anja Bah Žibert also wish to sign up, they should apply by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. They get the last word, first the representative of the Government and then the representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. Everyone has five minutes of time available. The first one has the word, Mr Primož Hainz.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that. Madam President is convinced that democracy is something that is eternal, and I know that the elements are such and different, even fascist, in Europe today, and that democracy must be built from and on, so that we do not go very far back as far as this is concerned. But I'm going to say a few things, but I'm going to say a little bit more controversial about what was said today, by the way, as an argument of how things are with us, how bad is that? For example, look, you told your family to come to Europe with the refugees and then bring the family back. Most of the emigrants in history, including our fathers or especially our old parents, first went alone, then – first the barn, then the cow – they brought their own to give them somewhere. But of course, you're a little bit of a nuisance to yourself when you say, "But some even take children in boats." Some of the old ones are a lot, but now I'm not just talking about you personally, I'm talking about the debate that took place these three hours. So they go, as they know and know at a time when they find out or are allowed in some way or otherwise legally, especially much illegal likely or, above all, that they can go when they do so financially and otherwise. Then, today, there was a sublime talk about how to teach them how to fish. These are grown-ups. Some with high education, with language skills. It was obvious sometimes, too, when, look, they have money, and they run, they know, and they leave. This is said to be again some slight imbalance in this debate. We have to be careful. They're people who are in trouble, and that's why they left. Any, any poor one, one rich one, but the smart one, of course, a little less. The one I can say is really a little bit unrealistic, I have to say, but I have to mention this because I think that there has been quite a double thesis that some people want -- probably on the left hand side -- to get 50,000 new voters in Slovenia if the borders open. I think that's, well, I have to say, higher. So, indeed, the chronic wisdom that we have heard today is not just once. The debate on this subject, which is serious, should not be just a party, even on your part would be more convincing if it were a little less party-oriented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vinko Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Well, I could really use this show. The one with the 50,000 voters. We just need to look at statistics and research in this area. In principle, they are the electors of the left-wing political parties. So that's not the case. Pull the trigger. Based on research, some kind of claim. Otherwise, something has to be said. Europe will certainly not be able to avoid importing people. She's gonna have to, because otherwise we're gonna die because Europe is 85 years old. It's about as if I were comparing things to human life. But at the same time, Europe should protect this house, which is called Europe, by adopting people who are either in need of protection or those who want them. The Germans said a while ago that they needed 30,000 computer engineers and went to India and brought them in. However, Europe and our country cannot agree to uncontrolled revenues. And at this point, it's about uncontrolled arrivals in Europe. That is not what I think Europe can be about. But he has to, well, now he's not our government or I don't know who's responsible for everything, we can't say that. The invitation of a German chancellor is also world stupid if you ask me, no matter where it belongs. That's irrelevant to me. I tell everyone what I think. On the inside, we can't agree that a million people came to Europe or Germany this year, if you want. And in an illegal way. Because the Greeks didn't do their job. It's a troubled story. Now compare, you know, the barn and the cows and all those stories. Yeah, he's drinking water. We can't say we only need those who work without families, and then we'll drive them away. It's not working, because it's a pretty clear story to me. But one smarter and more controlled way, however, than today. Because if this continues and if the Crusaders and some others know Central Africa, then we can get, I don't know, he's talking about 30 million that can come. Are we going to accept that, too? How are we gonna take this? These are questions for Europe not only for our country as such. Besides, there's something you need to say. Those numbers you said, Secretary of State, I was sharp when I said you were up for a chase if you were sending them to Brussels. But you've calmed me down, I'm glad, I'll say the situation is as it is, but not much to talk about. We are no longer speaking out loud because this is in the interests of the State in my opinion. I'm thinking about those fingerprints and that. The fact that Croatia was obliged, I do not think that this is true, but that Greece was the first one to register them. But okay, it's okay, it's okay. Greece was obliged and Greece is the one that Europe must put in order, and we can also help do something about it. That's true. But there's a lot of these roles because it's a leap of all this. And all those persons who are now recognized by this status, Mr Matić, and these persons will be given, this country will give for them. That's 833 euros a month. That is why this law must be adopted. If this marriage of yours that you've prepared, all of these ratings are lower, and you know what's acceptable to me, you know what I think is the limit for the law-makers or the law-makers that you've drawn up? [[…]] We should set a limit here. If our 40-year-old man, who worked bloodyly for the machine, gets 440 euros, then let's give his brother when we once said that the applicant, the one you've granted him now, will not get any more. He can't and can't win anymore. Isn't that brotherly? Because we said he gets the same as our employee who worked for 40 years. That's a lot for our 40-year-old people. But so be it. But we can't give him 833 euros a month. If you've prepared the law that you've drafted, and we've received it yesterday, in this direction, I'll be the first to suggest to the Group that this marriage of yours be supported. But if it goes over 440 euros, I'll be the first one to write the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u98	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. I, too, intended to highlight what colleague Vinko Gorenak was now discussing at the last, how much we devote to refugees and how much our lowest pensions receive. Let's not talk about social support. In addition, we must be aware, as we have already heard in the debate today, that Europe will slowly be filled with these migrants and refugees, that they cannot accept as much as it is now coming, and that there is likely to be an even greater rush in the spring. It's like we don't want to hear how many of them are being prepared and waiting to move towards Europe, towards the promised land. And we will, when the borders are closed by Germany, Austria, then on the neck of the nose they will save something. But with us, there can be too many refugees in a few days. Then how are we going to get them back or where we're going to put them? You have to think ahead. And also this fence that we're building right now, I think this fence is just some symbolic barbed wire. With those almost razors, it is more frightening, more like a war line than a fence that prevents or stops people in a more humane, cultural way. And even if they get stuck on it then on top of that barbed wire, if anyone wants to climb it, but not to set it up, I'd say, more partisanly than now, without crossings, without everything. And then we'll be wondering how the migrants across this border will come if, overnight from the neighbouring country, they just steal a few hundred feet of that fence. And you think that's going to stop those who want to get through this fence. He won't. Why don't we set up a fence like Hungary or Austria? They already know why they're putting up such a fence. We've got something over there. And of course, we immediately have the resistance of everyone on this border, especially the Belokrans, where the Kolpa River means a lot of things, as well as for the supply of game and livestock. We have such strong regulations that we need to provide passages for wildlings and cannot build a highway where this transition is or must be made with a multimillion-dollar investment to make sure that the game can cross the highway. And here we just fence the whole line without crossings and no one. What it will look like in the spring or summer when tourism is there, when people want to go to their lands on the other side, we do not know. I think we should take this more seriously and set up a serious fence that we know will take several years. Everyone says it won't stop in a few months, and then we'll put it in a pile and take it away. That's probably not gonna happen. That is why I think that the government does not think too seriously about it or is unaware of the danger that is coming. But it's already happening that the Arabs are buying walled buildings in the White Land, and it's perfectly legal. When some will settle, they will only allow others by their service, and we will simply have them here. There will certainly be a scattering of these migrants uncontrolledly, which is already happening in neighbouring countries, Austria and Germany, because there are a few ten thousand missing from the records they have. With us, it'll be too soon. I don't think we're aware of that. I look forward to your marriage, I hope ours isn't acceptable, that yours will be something similar or more serious than it is now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Špenga, State Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u100	Madam President, thank you for your word. You've highlighted the film in this section. Yes, the fact is that the Ministry of the Interior has chosen a project on the public call for a media campaign to address the content of migration and social development, and we are all migrants, which was funded by the Ministry of the Interior at 25%, and the rest comes from the financing of the European Union, i.e. 75% from the AMIF Fund. It is a project of intercultural dialogue and the awareness of Slovenian society that migrants live among us. The aim is to establish intercultural dialogue with this project. And once again, it was funding, but 75% was funded by the European Union from the AMIF Fund. Further questions have arisen where it would be better to be answered by the Ministry of Finance on the financial implications. I can say that what the Minister of Finance said about those 10,000, as you say, and you share with 12, it's probably some of the average costs of what's going on here, and everything else is taken into account here. The person recognised as international protection receives only EUR 270 per person's minimum personal income and no more. Another is the cost of those who apply for asylum and are in the process of migration. The numbers mentioned by you, colleague, that the Government has given in its announcement or analysis of what you referred to, up to 220, this analysis takes into account those who would apply for international protection. This analysis, in order to cross only 20 people into Slovenian territory, is not true, this has certainly not been the case in government material. Next, the 2016 budget, according to the Ministry of Finance's guarantees due to migration flows, plans are made for additional funding of the EUR 123 million mentioned and the rights will be allocated according to the budgetary users for which these costs will be incurred. Today we have also talked about everything else related to migrants, not only to the law on international protection, but also to the law on international protection, nothing is wrong, but you are saying that not all measures have been provided, as you say, for savages, for the local population in the White landscape and so on. I can tell we have two types of technical obstacles. Some of the technical obstacles are from this line of concerts you mention, while others are technical barriers from panel fences. Technical barriers from panel fences are also being set. The technical barriers from the panel fences will be placed in all of the complexes. So what we predicted at the beginning, in all the transitional sites according to SOPS, even in all four camps in the White landscape in Vinica. Also 11 animal crossings were immediately made possible in the White landscape, repellent chemicals are installed, electric shepherds and additional complementary animal protection fences are installed. This is all carried out in accordance with cooperation with the Hunting Union of Slovenia and here cooperation is excellent. However, there were, of course, no objections as to technical obstacles, particularly in those areas where there was no migration such as in Brežice. To conclude, Tomaž Lisec said with encouragement that people do not feel that there is still a migrant crisis and that there are up to 5,000 people a day. It's very encouraging. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u101	Your time is up. Thank you very much. [[…]] Ms Anja Bah Žibert also has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u102	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. I won't go into Mr. Hainz's discredit. I regret, however, that such a Member is the Vice-President of the National Assembly. I think that during the debate it was clear that we were talking about the content of the proposed legislative changes, what they were bringing and, above all, what they meant to the country. To show again, a pensioner who has worked for a minimum wage of 40 years is currently receiving EUR 5,000 200 a year in this country. On the other hand, the cost of the refugee is 10,000 euros a year. This was the information of Mr Marble on 21 September 2015 at the meeting of the National Assembly. If, Madam Secretary, we are merely compiling these data which speak of what is currently available in the law to persons with recognised international protection, I do not think that Mr Marble has made a mistake. All we can do is pull together, and we'll get to those numbers in no time. Once again, the payment of one-off cash assistance, accommodation in the integration house, monetary compensation for private accommodation, health care, social protection, assistance in integration, learning and so on, and all other rights equal to those of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, as regards social protection, surely come to such information. Finally, I think it is very important that, see, Mr Secretary, I have in my hands the material of the meetings for the National Assembly, when we talked about the assessment of the current migration trends and the police's management activities, a significant increase in the number of illegal migrants in the Republic of Slovenia. This is a document from 31. 8. and it states: (a) the arrival of several groups of 20 to 40 foreigners at the state border – very likely, the arrival of several larger groups of 40 to 80 foreigners at the state border with Croatia – probably a mass arrival of more than 200 people – probably. Not very likely or not most likely. And one more thing, coming on foot — less likely. What happened on the Coast is clear to everyone in the country. This is a government document and it speaks precisely of coming from the borders. It's this year, Your Honor. I was talking to 31. 8. This Decision shall enter into force on the These are the scenarios. Let's take a look at what your ministry is preparing, just because they're watching a meeting of citizens, so they won't think that we're giving information that we've, I don't know, invented or got somewhere else. I am pleased that, at the end of the day, we have heard from individuals that tightening the legislation is necessary, that certain proposals proposed in this law are also supported, so I believe they will also vote and allow the proposed law to go to another reading, where there can certainly be a number of upgrades, complements and, if necessary, adapt to certain directives. However, our message is clear, to help those who are in need, but of course as much as it is in the capacity of the country and in particular to protect the citizens of our country. According to the survey, security is not only the greatest value or one of the greater values of citizens, but citizens are very afraid of it and they are warning us about it. And we have a duty to react. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u103	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting of the National Assembly tomorrow, 18. 12. 2015 in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, this is the first defensive proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the protection of public order and peace. The draft law was tabled by a group of 20 Members and Members, with the first signed by Mrs Anjo Bah Žibert. With regard to this bill, the group of 20 Members and Members, with the first signed by Mrs Anjo Bah Žibert, demanded that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u104	Thank you very much. We have before us a law on changes and additions to the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace. This law prescribes conduct in public places in certain articles, so it was appropriate for us to settle the issue of burka and nikab in this law. What's one thing? What's the other? Burke. A Muslim woman's dress that has a full face. I'm talking completely. Nikab. Clothing, the same Muslim woman's clothing, which only has an eye opening. It's expected. When I explained at the press conference what kind of marriage we had entered into, of course I expected everything that happened then. One such orchestrated media attack, similar to that of 1945 or 1948, when in Ljubljana there were speakers and they were directly undergoing some sort of Advent process, say. Because the media is the same as they were. You can't expect anything else. The orchestrated attack was also a full trial here, and today it is likely to continue. That's why I'm gonna say it like that. Why did we file this marriage? There are two basic reasons. The first is a security related to migration flows and the second is purely cultural-historic. And I'll try to justify that. Ladies and gentlemen, if I come to your house, I must behave as you want me to, and I cannot behave in such a way that it would not be in accordance with your wishes. Any of us traveled to the Muslim world, I was there in 2013 on such a purely ordinary trip, a short vacation. And that's where I went to the second biggest mosque in the world. I'm talking about the United Arab Emirates. When my wife and I got there, we had to get down first, then you had to wash your legs, that's of course for both sexes, and then they get women's head coverings. And that way you can go to this mosque. Why is that? What would happen if we said that we wouldn't respect it? The door would show us, and we could go to some first buffet instead of looking at this facility. And the exact same analogy is that if someone comes into our cultural environment, they should behave in a manner appropriate to this cultural environment. And we expect nothing more and nothing less from these people. Muslims who reside in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia more or less than you know come from the territory of the former Yugoslavia, and thus have no problems. We practically don't even separate them. Well, at least not after what kind of burkas and stuff. And they don't wear them either. But those who are few in Slovenia should adapt to this. I expect further part of the disqualification, disqualification, accusation and all. But I'll take that and give you a double plate back from the bench. That's what you can expect whoever you do. Even so, Slovenia is not the only country to introduce it, the French have introduced it, have judged their constitutional court, have judged the European Court of Human Rights and have said that this is the case. The same is true for Belgium, the same is true for the Netherlands, which then slightly limited only to public institutions and so on and so on. We can move on, Italy already in 1974, and then some Italian cities have made special arrangements. One of the Swiss cantons last month, 9,000 euros in fines was foreseen for wearing burks in public. Of course, then I will be able to quote from the bench many more, many other documents, foreign professors from a Muslim thing that they do not approve of. Anyway, start spitting. You'll get paid back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u105	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, Mr Andrej Špenga.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u106	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. The main purpose of the bill is to regulate the issue of wearing burk and nikaba, covering the whole body in a public place, which can therefore be a security problem. According to the proposaler, following also the decision of the European Court of Human Rights, which confirmed the decision of the French Court to prohibit the wearing of burks and nicobs in public and refused to appeal to France that its right to freedom of expression was violated. Wearing burks and nikaba is an expression of religious belief. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the confession of religion and other definitions in private and public life is free, paragraph 41. Freedom of conscience shall be guaranteed to all natural persons, whether they are nationals of the Republic of Slovenia, foreign nationals or stateless persons, and the State shall not interfere with the conduct and protection of this Article of the Constitution, must regulate them and must not, in fact, restrict them. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in its 41st Article, the expression of nationality, also stipulates that everyone has the right to freely express his or her nationality to his or her people or the national community, to cultivate and express his or her culture and to use his or her language and writing. Justice is a civil basis for co-existence between people of different national communities and enables the manifestation of belonging to its people, national or ethnic communities. 43. Article 43 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia prohibits any incitement to national, racial, religious or other inequalities and the spread of national, racial, religious or other hatred and intolerance. With the general prohibition of wearing burqa and nikaba in public places, the prohibition would affect constitutionally protected rights. The proposed change is systemicly unconstitutional, unconstitutional and not well thought out, as burka and nicobs in Slovenia are virtually not used. In the laity and professional public, however, very different responses to the proposal are better known. There are about 50,000 Muslims living in Slovenia, where covering a woman's face is not normal. Usually women wear the main routes. It also does not in practice pose a security risk. From the point of view of the implementation of police duties, the Law on the tasks and powers of the police in Article 40 lays down the conditions for identifying the identity and in Article 41 the method of identifying the identity. On the basis of the Law on the Tasks and Powers of the Police, police officers may require a person who is covered or disguised to reveal himself in order to be able to clearly identify him. It should be noted that Slovenian police are not aware of the increase in the security problem associated with the wearing of nikab or burk, nor are there any known problems in identifying identity. The unconvincingness of the proposal of the Group of Members and Members also shows a comparative legal review, which shows that only two European countries, namely France and Belgium, have prohibited the wearing of such garments or coverings and one of the provinces in Spain. All other members of the European Union have clearly not detected such needs and have not joined in amending legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u107	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for her by Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u108	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Let me be the first. The proposal before us is most likely to continue the previous debate. What we heard at the last point. This is another performance for the public, which is certainly the main purpose of the SDS under the cover of security risks. If we have dealt with refugees in the first proposal, this time the proposal is directed against Muslims. Applicants have been using the refugee crisis for their own party and ideological promotion and have been trying to create in the public from the very beginning the impression that there are extraordinary situations that threaten citizens and citizens in Slovenia. However, the government’s response to fear has only deepened. The daily extension of the barbed wire along the border, the amendment of asylum legislation and the sending to the teeth of armed police officers and soldiers to the border is just one of the inappropriate and completely unnecessary measures taken by the Government recently. After proposing first that refugees be deprived of virtually all the rights they have, they also propose to prohibit the wearing of burqa and nikaba in public places. This time, too, the proponents hide under the pretext of protecting Slovenians and Slovenians against dangerous and unwanted foreigners. This solution, too, should be necessary only and only to ensure the safety of cultural identity, as we have heard. In the United Left we advocate strict consideration of the separation of the state and the church. This divorce, however, must be clear in all confessions. In the light of clear separation, we do not therefore support the wearing of burka or nikabo in public institutions, but the principles of the secular state must also be consistently respected when it comes to all other religions in Slovenia, as well as their practices. Nevertheless, it is always necessary to protect minorities and to promote co-existence, mutual tolerance and dialogue and their integration into society. We therefore reject the xenophobicity and intimidation embodied in the SDS proposal. The proposal to ban the wearing of burks in Slovenia for security reasons is pure demagogy, which has only one objective: to create a sense of danger and to raise fear of refugees in our society. If we take a closer look at the SDS proposal, we will quickly find that they are not at all about security. This is evident from the very point of view of the proposal. If the SDS were to take action to amend the law for safety reasons, it would propose a ban on wearing all blankets covering the entire body. But of course that's not their goal. The proposal is specifically directed against Muslims. If we exaggerate a little bit, we could say that the SDS does not mind if a person walks in any completely covered clothing in the public eye, except that it is not in burka or nicob. Even if we look at comparable arrangements, France, Spain and Belgium prohibit all blankets, not exactly niqaba and burka. None of these arrangements mention burka and nikaba, but only covers covering the whole body, all coverings. It is clear, therefore, that the SDS only uses the propensity of public opinion, the rise in intolerance, Islamophobia and xenophobia, and requires increasingly radical measures that are clearly directed against refugees. However, all measures are, of course, proposed to ensure security. As has already been said, in the United Left we advocate strict respect for the separation of the state and the church and we feel that this position must be maintained in all confessions. In light of this, we do not advocate wearing burkas or nicobos, but only in cases of wearing in public institutions. It concludes that the proposal is suitable for further consideration, so we will not support it. On the other hand, in the United Left, we express solidarity to refugees and defend the rights of minorities. But when it comes to the question of religious symbols, we are strict, religion and the state must be separate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The text is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u110	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! I think this debate is particularly interesting in terms of the fact that there are many paradoxes when we started discussing this bill or when it began with the initiative for law, so to speak, this public debate on the prohibition of wearing burka and nikabo. Let me start by saying that Slovenia may have some cases where Muslim women have burka or niab. I must say that I see very rarely in Ljubljana or elsewhere a woman who would have a burka or nicob, and this is not a problem in Slovenia. However, I would like to say that I am looking at this debate alone, as well as this law, mainly from the point of view of women's freedom. I will discuss this further in more detail. I would also like to mention the debate on the prohibition of wearing burka and nikaba, i.e. clothing covering the face, in our country, we could certainly discuss security, constitutional, cultural and other aspects here. Well, if I start with a security aspect. As already mentioned, just now that many European countries are facing an increased terrorist threat, this aspect is very recent. It is not just women under the burqa or at any rate, but also men who may be wanted for crimes or even in connection with terrorist organisations. And no country is protected from this, nor is Slovenia. The detection and identification of such persons by the security authorities is certainly very difficult in this way. The reasons for public safety are certainly in favour of a ban on disguises covering the face in public spaces. Within our constitutional framework, equality between men and women is ensured. The rule of compulsory wear is in grave violation of this principle. Women are required to cover their faces while men, for example, are not required to cover their faces. In short, it's a classic form of discrimination by sex. We expect that, especially political parties, this moment would say left political options, this constitutional aspect, which they like to refer to very much, in this case they do not overlook. In particular, since I cover a large proportion of women from the Muslim world, I will also continue to show pictures of them before the Islamic Revolution, not wearing them voluntarily, but because they are forced to do so either by their husbands, relatives or the wider environment. It is also unimaginable that a woman in a burka could work, for example, behind a bank window or in any public place. That means these women are practically unemployed. The new burk and nikaba are therefore discriminatory from the point of view of job accessibility. At this point, we must also point out that the European Court of Human Rights, which has already passed a ban on the wearing of burka and niqaba in France, has said that such regulation does not constitute an infringement of human rights. At this point in this debate, I cannot talk about human rights. A third important reason is also the cultural reason. In the European space, even in Slovenia, they have every right to demand that those coming from the Muslim, Islamic world, especially migrants, refugees who have come to us for a better life, also respect the secularity of Europe, the European Union. Our rules on women's equality, we lay down rules that ensure that these people are integrated into our environment as soon as possible with regard to clothing. And finally. We adapt when we go to their world. Even if we were going as tourists, I'd say in a week. At the same time, let me express one important fact that everyone should live life as they want it, as they choose it. At the same time, one aspect needs to be stressed, respect for the culture, the environment in which an individual lives. I said earlier, senior political representatives, for example in Germany, say that such a way of multiculturalism as we have known it so far is no longer going forward. Well, let's take a closer look at the burks and the nicobs. I was very happy to prepare for this meeting because I am interested in this area, the social arrangements in the Muslim world. The re-emergence of burk and nicobs began with the Islamic Revolution in Iran in 1977. After the Islamic revolution in Iran in 1979, they re-lawed the wearing of burka. Today a number of Muslim activists, including from Iran, are also fighting to erase this law. There really is another paradox coming up right now. In part of Slovenian politics and the public, all through the saying of non-violence to women, wearing burks or no sign of so-called tolerance. It's one of those big social paradoxes we're getting. This is a question of will and freedom. And the key question is whether a woman chooses to wear a burka or a nicob. And you'll say, I don't care, it's none of my business. Yeah, I'm not at risk with that. But in my yard, in our backyard, we'll behave differently than in the other yard. And allow me to introduce some pictures. It all started, as I said, in 1979. And this is a picture of women protesting in Tehran. A protest against wearing burks. This is another picture you will find against the burka – Iran, Tehran. This is a painting, another protest in Afghanistan against the burka. This was in 1979. And this is a picture — Kabul, which was said to be the Islamic Monte Carlo in 1979 or before the Islamic Revolution. After these pictures, when you show this picture, I wonder what has changed so much in these 30s, 40s, and whether it is really only the women's and people's will that women are now hidden in this way, whether it's only their will, freedom or not. Look, I am particularly disappointed by these paintings, too, I will say, by our left feminists, which we hear many times in public debates when they fight for women's rights. I wonder where the leftist feminists are now to identify themselves until we wear burks. On the one hand, we advocate freedom, equality of women, and on the other hand, there is no such thing. Burke and Niki, as I was able to understand in one part, are a symbol of women's dependence and subjection. And in the first place, it's a rule that introduces the domination of men over women. Therefore, women are required to cover their faces while men are not required to do so. In this part, we can talk about the classical form of discrimination. And to claim that this is an example of cultural diversity, this moment is a nonsense of the same order as if in Slovenia, where, for example, physical violence is prohibited – of course, against children or a beating of children, they said that this does not apply to families coming from countries where different educational traditions exist. In the part of Slovenian politics and the public, once again, I stress that it is always against violence against women, but wearing burks is a sign of cultural tolerance if you want. Burke cannot be defended by the argument of formal freedom even less in the sign of emancipation and equality. As one professor from Sarajevo said, "...there is no freedom under the burka. To defend it in the name of freedom, it is unworthy of European values as well as European values, and it is not possible to be indifferent to these women in particular. Let them at least live in the EU as elsewhere they cannot. Burkes and never can also express religious freedom and expression of religious feelings, but at the same time, at least so much may be the expression of violence or the reduction of freedom between these women." As I said before, freedom to wear burks and nicobs cannot be guaranteed. Therefore, the prohibition of burkas and nicobs also prohibits the imposition of their burdens and gives them more freedom than it takes, especially in terms of ensuring freedom. Comparatively, too, such a prohibition is European or in accordance with European values and does not violate human rights. On the contrary. The ban on these women and their human rights would benefit from emancipating them. As I have already said, and as the predecessors have already said before me, the European Court of Human Rights has also found, which has already occurred in some European countries, when this ban has already been implemented. In the case of burkas and nyabí, it is a formalistic approach in terms of women making their own decisions, pure scheming, because women they wear are generally in full economic dependence, particularly in the Islamic world. And once again, the world of paradox. If a right-wing man, conservative, were to say that a woman should be unemployed, that she should be at home behind the stove, that we should have children, we could also hear in the media, in which case all the left-wing people would jump to the ceiling of bitterness. But if a woman is all this and wears nothing or burka on top of it, that's freedom, that's tolerance. So all of a sudden, burkas and nikibi, concealing a woman's face has become, it seems, in fashion, or a person is willing to forget everything they really mean. But I fear that the key objective here is, above all, the destruction of social values. And these values are women's equality, employment, freedom and independence. Because the burka in today’s world cannot be justified with anything, especially freedom. In the debate on burkas and nikabi, it is also worth mentioning that it is a European way of life in which Muslims can either integrate and maintain their faith, and also our values, or, on the other hand, they are being ghettoised. At the symbolic level, however, it is all in this, secularisation, that we apply our rules and not Sharia law. In Islamic countries, this question is not even being asked. And why, then, should we stand up? But that secularization? Why should this issue also be asked in Slovenia? And by ban, we protect ourselves, our way of life, but also them. Just as secularisation has protected Europe – beware – even against exclusiveness, if you will, the Roman Catholic Church. For the modern state is, in my firm belief, a secular state and what religious standards must do away with it. On the one hand, the European Court of Human Rights has already ruled on several occasions. And the theme, I say, is extremely serious for our future and for what Europe we will live in. We cannot shrink before oppression, inequality, inemancipation, dependence, and at the same time say so, that is freedom. The ban on burks and nicobs should therefore also be understood as a symbol of the application of European values, gender equality, integration and secularisation. For all these reasons, we will support the proposal for a law in New Slovenia – Christian Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u111	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, for which Dr. Dragan Matić is a member.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u112	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, thank you for your floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we believe that legal proposals are justified when there is a public interest in regulating a particular area. This is often the case when there is a conflict of several legitimate public interests. We are and will be sensitive to every phenomenon when it turns out that someone is forcing someone to wear a certain outfit or otherwise interferes with his personal freedoms and integrity. In this context, we are open to possible debates if it turns out to be a problem. However, we believe that this does not fall within the scope of the Law on Public Order and Peace. The SDS proposal for the amendment of the Law on Public Order and Peace stems from a problem which we believe does not exist in the SMC Group. Nikab and the burka are tasks that are virtually undetectable in our country or are rarely found by someone who has ever seen a person in such an operation. Even those who were seen in public in these clothes were mostly ladies coming to Slovenia as tourists. The number of women who stay in Slovenia and use such a dress is not officially known, nor is it officially known, for example, the number of people wearing irish pants or, for example, dirndl. However, according to non-official estimates, the number of persons wearing nicob or burka does not exceed the number between 4 and 20 persons throughout the country. It is also unfounded to claim that wearing a nicoba or burka constitutes a security threat. Because of the exceptionalness and visibility of this outfit, the person wearing it is given special attention to all who detect it and, of course, there is also a potential for any unlawful conduct to be carried out in this dress, substantially less than if she were wearing a normal dress. In the SMC Group, we also consider that some people with the wearing of nicoba or burka cannot endanger Slovenian custom and Slovenian tradition, which is significantly more subject to influences such as the American pop culture than the influence of Islamisation. The argument that persons who wear a dress that testifies to their belongings to the Islamic faith should adapt to our cultural environment in such a way that they are forced by law to renounce their costumes is something that is in fact contrary to Slovenian customs and traditions. Finally, it must be pointed out that our Constitution guarantees freedom of religion. We believe that Slovenian society is open and tolerant to other people such as the majority and that such a society must remain. From the point of view that they should adapt to us as we do to them when we visit the Islamic world, for example, the obligation of European women to cover their hair with a route or, as Mr Gorenak said, to wash their feet before entering the mosque is unusual. It implies the expectation that in terms of tolerance, we will sum up similar criteria as they do in Saudi Arabia or Iran. For the above reasons, the SMC Group opposes the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u113	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u114	Your Honor! Both Slovenia and the European Union should actively and primarily pursue the creation of key elements of political union, such as security challenges, common foreign policy, uniform rules of asylum policy. We are facing security and cultural challenges. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have constantly warned the government about the security challenges. Last year and this year, we have twice introduced the new Penal Code on foreign terrorist fighters, with proposals on dealing with the migration crisis, protecting the Schengen area. We were waiting for government proposals for solutions that were unfortunately not available. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have prepared ourselves a proposal for a new law on international protection, which we discussed and discussed at the previous point, and a new amendment to the law on public order and peace. Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party have thus prepared a previous proposal by tightening the conditions for obtaining international protection in Slovenia and the proposal on which we propose a ban on wearing burks and nikaba in public places. The main reason for the submission of the two legal novelties mentioned above is the fact that the migration wave does not occur and that a common approach to solving this problem has not been developed at European level, which is facing security and cultural challenges. In doing so, we have taken into account the fact that one of the direct or indirect consequences of the migratory wave is an increased security threat across Europe, that is, in Slovenia. With the proposal of the law in question, we propose a ban on wearing Muslim blankets covering the face in public places. So the burka and the nicobs that cover their faces. The reason for this is both safe and cultural. Security is in itself understandable and cultural in fact that we want Slovenia to respect Slovenian customs and Slovenian tradition and that these customs and traditions do not change. The proposal followed the case of France, which has the largest Muslim minority in Europe. In 2010, she passed a law prohibiting face-closure. This is the first such law in Europe. The law of the former government in France represented as a measure to protect Muslim women from being forced to cover their faces with lids such as burka and niab. In our view, the proposed solution follows the decision of the European Court of Human Rights. The latter confirmed the decision of the French Court to prohibit the wearing of burks and nikabs in public and rejected the French appeal that its right to freedom of expression was violated. The Court stressed that respect for the conditions of common life is a legitimate objective for the introduction of such a measure. A similar solution was adopted in Belgium, which passed the law in 2011, prohibiting the wearing of clothing covering the whole body. A fine of EUR 197 or a 7-day prison sentence is at stake for the offence. In Spain, there is a ban on concealing the face in public places in the province of Catalonia, where there is a ban on wearing burks and nikaba in public places or in a public place in Catalonia. The local government in the southern part of Switzerland, in the Italian-speaking region, has banned the wearing of burks in shops, restaurants or public buildings. A fine of up to EUR 9 000 is prescribed for the infringement. However, discussions on the prohibition of the wearing of burks in public places take place in both Latvia and Estonia. With regard to wearing burks and nikabs, coverings covering the face, I would like to remind you of Adnan Silajdzic's interview for the evening of 2010, this is a professor at the Faculty of Islamic Sciences of Sarajevo who said on the issue of banning the wearing of burka, quote: "In terms of philosophy and human rights, to express themselves, of course, also with clothing. However, I reiterate that only to a limit that does not endanger social and social communication. Burke prevents this kind of communication. Nikab, a burka that covers the face of a mirror of the soul, prevents the widest possible social and social relationship of a Muslim woman in European societies. It is therefore unacceptable and, for practical reasons, useless." In this regard, with regard to the proposal to prohibit the wearing of these blankets, burka and nikaba, the Secretary of the Islamic Community said in 2011 that the wearing of these covers was not in accordance with Islam or with the Islamic way of life. It's a custom thing. Burke doesn't have any basis in religious regulations. Once again, this is the Secretary of the Islamic Community. For the reason that the decision of the European Court of Human Rights makes it clear that the prohibition on wearing burka does not constitute a violation of freedom of expression of religion, on the grounds that the law in question is being adopted for a security and cultural reason, because we want Slovenia to respect Slovenian customs and Slovenian tradition and that this custom and this tradition are not changing, we will, of course, support the proposal we have prepared in the Slovenian Democratic Party. However, unlike a fellow Member who says that this is not much of a problem, I would say that I am seeing this more and more, although the bill is still a bill in terms of preventive measures. Last time there was one person in the burka earlier with us also on the balcony. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u115	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Peter Wilfan has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u116	Dear President, Government Representative, colleague and colleague! Members of the SDS propose to prohibit the wearing of burks and nikaba in public places in Slovenia by law. The violators would be punished with 100 euros in fines. For the main reason, the applicants state the security and cultural aspects for a better appearance. The law's proposal only contains the following sentence among the reasons for admission: We believe that covering the face in public places can be a security problem. They refer to the decision of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. This was confirmed last July by the French ban on concealing the face of the public, thus rejecting the arguments of a 24-year-old French woman that the prohibition violates religious freedom. The European Court did not give the French State for security reasons, but in particular respected the minimum standards of common life in France. However, all the applicants repeat that the ban on wearing burks and nikabs in public is necessary for safety. So this is another attempt to mislead the public. It is also a profound ignorance of the Muslim world. This is very diverse and the concealment of the face of women is commanded only in some Muslim groups. Are Muslim carriers in Slovenia really such a security problem, even though the concealment of the face of women in Slovenia is virtually unknown? Those rare Muslim women who wear burkas can't really threaten the security of the state. That's why it's pretty pointless to wear burks to connect with terrorist attacks. Finally, the Burkes were banned in France and Belgium years ago, and this did not prevent terrorism. There was a public opinion that some of these women could not be identified. However, it must be said here that the existing law on the duties and powers of the police provides that police officers may require a person who is covered up or disguised to reveal himself in order to be able to clearly identify him. However, according to the police, there is no evidence of an increase in the security problem associated with the wearing of burks, nor are there any problems in identifying identity. Therefore, it is difficult to compare the prohibition of wearing empty masks behind the wheel with the prohibition of wearing nicobs or burks behind the wheel, as the public prefer to represent the proponents of the ban on blankets. The last cases, as I have already said, have not yet been met in Slovenia. And another interesting piece of information. In Slovenia, there are about 50,000 Muslims. I would like to point out that for these 50,000 Muslims, it is not normal to cover a woman's face because they use only the main routes, which does not, of course, pose a security risk. Women with burkas could only be detected by a handful of tourists in the centre of Ljubljana. It is therefore reasonable to ask why the drafter of the law with the idea of banning the wearing of burk came right now and whether this is really necessary. If we said in the previous proposal of the same proposer's law that it was about exploiting the current situation, collecting political points and sowing fear and intolerance, then this is even more obvious in this proposal. Did anyone wonder how many women in Slovenia are wearing burkas, especially how many refugees who have crossed Slovenia have applied for asylum here and their application has been granted? As an additional reason for the ban, members of the SDS state respect for Slovenian customs and Slovenian traditions. With all due respect – what are the Slovenian customs and traditions that should be worshiped by all and which are, carefully, at risk? Should we then also adopt the Irharic and Krapan hats Act or the mandatory use of Kranj sausage, yota or bograč? In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the ban on wearing burks and nikabs is in fact neither about security nor about preserving our own Slovenian culture, so we will not support the SDS proposal to amend the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u117	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u118	Thank you very much, President for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, again for this speaker. On this occasion, I must first speak and provide an explanation. At the beginning of the previous debate, colleague Vinko Gorenak mentioned that I am on duty today. Sure, I'm on duty. Why am I on duty? Because we are dealing today with the area of internal affairs, and as a representative of the Committee on Internal Affairs, I am covering this area, which is why I am also on duty in the Group of Six Members of Parliament, the Group of Social Democrats. Now let us move on to the law that we are considering today. First of all, I would like to tell you that the Social Democrats of this proposal conclude that the proposal for the amendment to the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace is not suitable for further consideration, and we will not support it. In the media, the authors of this novel mentioned the reason for it, namely respect for Slovenian customs and traditions. At this point we should probably, along with anthropologists and other researchers, indicate which Slovenian customs and traditions have evolved through the history of the Slovenian people. This development and diversity of Slovenian society have certainly been assisted by people who have come from elsewhere in our territory today. We must admit that the proponents are the masters of paranoia and that they are successfully exploiting the pressures of people for their promotion. This does not apply only to the period of the last four months when the wave of people fleeing the east stopped at the border of the Republic of Slovenia. The goal of these people is to travel as quickly as possible to promised lands, where relatives may be waiting for them. It is important to ask whether in this refugee wave only women who are commanded by the Islamic faith to the extent that burka and niqab are urgently required to wear to appear in public. The proposal states that the purpose of this proposal is to regulate the issue of wearing burks and nikaba, covering the whole body in a public place. Given that the additional arguments, what the proposed solution brings to the Slovenian people, are not mentioned, we may wonder whether we are speculating that the purpose of the applicants is merely to manipulate the public and to gain political points cheaply. In all of this, however, it is the most worrying way to do so. However, gradually it is clear that the introduction of fear among people and the sowing of intolerance to religious and culturally different thinkers, according to our assessment, means dangerous playing with fire, which can lead to unfathomable consequences. Social Democrats are afraid of that. In the material, the applicants refer to France. It is true that in France it is prohibited to wear a blanket that is largely or entirely covering the face of an individual and that the European Court of Human Rights has decided as it has decided. Did this ban on wearing burks and nikabs prevent a terrorist attack in Paris? I wish I didn't. The material states that even in Belgium, wearing these covers and clothing is prohibited, and a fine or prison is at risk. In Belgium, too, after the terrorist attack, they declared emergency situations and had many raids. Most of the attacks were carried out by young men born in France or Belgium, the second or third generation of people who came to Europe from nearby colonies. And what did these two countries do for integration? Apparently very little or nothing. By banning the wearing of burks and nicobs in Slovenia, we will certainly not help with the patient dialogue of different groups. In fact, it can do the opposite. A few days ago, in an article, I read an interview with a French girl who said that the burka had never worn or thought about it. However, after the adoption of the law, she consciously and out of protest decided to change her customs. So not out of some religious belief, but in spite of that, that's what I'd call it. At that time, it also developed the idea that it was a matter of solving the woman’s issue or also of liberating them. Your Honor! The struggle for women's rights has been going on for several hundred years. Even on our European soil, this fight also took place in the area of women's clothing or, if you will say so, women's fashions. The revolutions on women's rights were therefore in many areas, not only in the area of equal decision-making rights. Women also fought for electoral rights and, unfortunately, died. And they don't have it all over the world today. On Saturday, local elections were held in Saudi Arabia. The women first voted and ran. And if the data is correct, nine women were elected. So this is the first step toward liberating women not only from undergarments but also from men’s shackles. We support them in these recognitions and efforts. And that's why one day that world will be more beautiful down there. Let me finish with my next thought. If we prohibit the wearing of burks and nikaba in public places, Slovenia will certainly not be any safer country or more respected. The Social Democrats are interested in what will be said in the next European Commission report against racism and intolerance in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u119	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. He has the word as a proposalr first of all, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u120	Thank you very much. I've got to get out of here right now before those of you who've talked about it get away, because there's only one person or two here. So it's just you. Look, there was a guy on the balcony earlier because I don't know what it was. Yeah, I don't know what that was. You know what it was. It's probably just the police. The person who was in Nikibu, or how was he a woman or was he a man? [[...]] You know what? The police have to be asked. To link the current events to our proposal. Otherwise, let's go in a row, I'll go in reverse so you don't get out of here first, which is your custom, Mrs. Muršičeva. See what the European Court of Human Rights or an institution will say about Slovenia. It won't say anything. Not as much as France. The ECHR said clearly and loudly that wearing a burka is not disputed that the prohibition on wearing is not disputed. So what's it gonna say? So what could it say? He can't write anything special. Let's move on. What most of you, one of you I listened to, one of you I didn't listen to, I didn't listen to the views of SMC because I was outside the hall, but all the others, who you did, see, masters of phobia creation, cheap political points, planting intolerance – that was common to all and you read it. Let's say something out of your head, so say something out of your head, whatever comes out of your soul and heart, say it. What's behind those flossules you had? These are the flossules, which, of course, will be played cheerfully tonight. They're going to be playing flossules. But to me, the content is important, not the flossule, as we had until 1990, I don't know, the arrow of my eye and what we had. And you keep repeating the same stories. Let's move on to a little more serious debate. Dr. Vatovec, see, let me read something, yes, you have to read something on this subject before you say anything. You said it was somewhere else. It's not an insult. [[…]] Look, you've been saying that everywhere else there are no covers. That's not true. See the ECHR judgment on this subject. Exactly these two terms are used – burka and niab. Exactly those two expressions. That's another thing. You can't, the original version of the law that we didn't file then, but we fixed it, it went to this. I've been counting on it to make arrangements not to talk about burka and nikab, but to say all the blankets that cover the whole face. But you can't do that because then you'll ban the classic Slovenian wedding because the bride has a spider on her face. Are you going to ban it? You can't ban it. What else are you going to ban? Look, a lot of us, when it's cold to put a hat down so much – then it's also forbidden. You can't ban it like that. Let's not talk about any biker. Then he won't have a helmet either, because his face is covered. You can't just ban it in such a way as to say you wouldn't use those two terms. And these expressions are used everywhere, from France, Belgium and beyond. And nothing else. You'll get your word. He'll be here in five minutes. Don't be afraid. Let's move on. When you speak, you associate this matter with religion. So let's stop talking nonsense. You know what I saw in the United Arab Emirates? Of course the burka, all that, that, that, that, that, to the hotel. And there these women stop together with men in front of one of these tapes — those who served the army, you know what tapes we had. Well, then the burko down, and the jeans up there, we're going to the disco. That's what it looks like in practice down there. Then what do you say about some religious stories? What does this have to do with faith? They explained to me that it was the same thing as a national costume. That's how they explained it to me when I asked them. I don't know if they'd let me in there with some hat and those feds in there, they'd probably be looking at me a little weird if I showed up there like that. What's at the airport? Do you think there's a burka? No, no, no, no, no! She needs to be put down. Otherwise, you don't know who's on your plane. Like before, we didn't know who was on the balcony. What if there was some kind of hairy man hidden down there? I don't know who he was. How's the legitimation going? Is that where we're supposed to be without it? He's not going without it. You need to expose yourself. Sure thing. At the airports, same story. So, not to associate this with faith, but with religious freedom, and the separation of the church from the state, we're written here by a twitter guy who doesn't have a name and a surname. Maybe there are women in the back. I don't know who they are. They're under aliases. This has nothing to do with our constitution and the separation of the church from the state, but I don't know what it's like to connect these stories. Mr. Wilphan spoke about the fact that a few ten people will not threaten Slovenia and that in France what is Eve is no longer! [[…]] Mrs. Muršičeva's already gone. Don't let that get in the way. Yeah, that's why we need to do it before there's any threats. Slovenia is not threatened, we have no security problems. Of course we don't, but that's why we have to do this so we don't have them. And they did it too late, that's the problem. Look, if we're so unstated and we're smuggling illegally into Slovenia of foreign culture, then yes, tomorrow we're going to let those stones drop in there that they kill, not. Rocks, for instance. But we're gonna let that happen, too? Head-splitting. Rocks. For starters. Are we going to let them do that? No! No! They do not behave as the average European civilization does, we will say, absolutely nothing else. Look, you're on your own. Mr. Wilphan was talking about the fact that they were almost gone. Yeah, well, if they're not there, then the marriage won't hurt anyone. Then why are you against it? Let's move on. I have a contribution from dinner. Of course I'm being attacked by Dr. Lucky Dragosh. Yeah, that's a nice thing, isn't it? But at the same time, there's a very interesting contribution in here. That would be good to hear, because it's not an insult. See what Adnan Silajdzic, professor of Islamic dogmatics at the Faculty of Islamic Sciences in Sarajevo, says. You believe him, I hope so. If the professor's in college, then God help him, we have to believe him, right? Look what he said. "From the point of view of philosophy and human rights, women, of course, have the right to express themselves through dress, but I reiterate that only to a limit that does not threaten social and social communication. Burke prevents this kind of communication. Nikab, a burka who hides the face that mirrores the soul, prevents the widest possible social and social relationship of a Muslim woman in European societies and is therefore unacceptable for purely practical reasons." Look, he's against himself. We believe it's Muslim resources and so on and so forth. And you're in. That's a very interesting story. So we can't deny this thing in this way. In short, I will continue to listen to you spitting and you will continue to get them back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u121	Dr. Matej T. Vatovec has the floor to prepare Mrs. Ludmila Novak and Mr. Dušan Radič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u122	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Gorenak, of course I must respond. Your implementation now confirms exactly what you started. That, in fact, what you're doing is just deception and pretense. I read, I believe you read, too, but as a proponent you should probably also read the laws you refer to in your proposal, it is called Belgian and French in this case. If we go to see the Belgian law, which was passed by 28. 4. 2011, this is a novelty; the second article clearly defines that for 15 to 25 euros and with a prison sentence of between day and seven days, or one of these two, those people who will be in public spaces or in publicly accessible spaces with a masked face or a covered face. And that's all he says. Then there are additional articles that go further in detail. France adopted a law on 12 October 2010, a Belgian novel bearing the title of Law 2010/1192 of 11 October 2010 prohibiting the concealment of faces in public spaces. Article 1 of this Law states: "No one shall wear a garment in public spaces intended to cover his face." That's all he says, then there are just other articles that go on. You, when you say that France and Belgium have banned the exact burka and niqab, this is simply a deception and let me admit it. We know what your purpose is, where you actually want to go with this proposal, and let us also stop deceiving once. If you want, you can talk publicly and honestly, say that you speak from the heart, and then you can also read the things you refer to, and consider them, but not talk about that we, who in some way disagree with the SDS proposals, then pretend everything, deceive, discredit and disqualify. I have read the law, I have read these laws, I have read your proposal, and I do not agree with it. That's why I said what I said in the first place. Secondly, I think that it should be a matter of debate and not additional discredits, but even less of a lie, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u123	Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u124	I don't know who discredited you. I have some more police knowledge and skills, I'll help defend you. Just like Mr. Horvath. No one has discredited you. Why are you talking about public spaces? Of course, the law speaks of a public place. This is a fundamental difference through the law on public order and peace in which we have put this provision. In addition, you need to know that what you said is true for the Netherlands, mainly because they had a total ban first and then only went to public places such as schools such as hospitals such as cultural institutions and so on. But what you're saying, and what you're saying about France, does not apply to this Swiss canton, which was also discussed last week. They accepted even, and one data was 6 and 9 000 euros in fines. Individual Italian cities also have this issue in place. In 1974 the Italians introduced such prohibitions into that anti-terrorist legislation in some respects. So we don't have anything here. I don't know, I don't know, tell me if there's anything, I don't know anything about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u125	Ms Ludmila Novak has the floor to prepare Mr Dušan Radič and Mr Matjaž Germany.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u126	Hello! First of all, I wish we knew how to respect our culture and also our religious roots, but often we see an intolerance to our faith, to our culture right here within this Parliament, that I do not speak more widely in Slovenia. They also tie some bells, propose a ban on ringing and so on. I wish that we all knew first and foremost that we respect ourselves, our culture, our Slovenia. But I know that in my house we are the masters ourselves, that, of course, if we have guests, we are hospitable to them, but we want them to behave according to our rules. And I also expect that from immigrants, including tourists who come to our country to respect our civil standards. As if we are going as tourists to some very radical Islamic countries, we must behave as their rules do. I certainly do not want any conflict with Muslims living in Slovenia, and we know that most of them or women do not wear these covers, so I cannot imagine that burka and none are just expressions of some religious affiliation or religious belief. They are more of an expression of some radicalisation of Islam in certain countries. And as a woman, I'm on the women's side, and I can't imagine that there are a lot of women who are happy to wear it, especially when it's 35 degrees Celsius and they have to wear these clothes. That is why I am also a woman against such covers, which is not an expression of freedom, which is not an expression of volunteerism, but an expression of some radical leaders. Muslims in Slovenia do not usually wear these covers, and many to a large extent have adapted to life in Slovenia. I hear right from the construction workers a lot of times how good the workers are with us. And let us respect all of this, and let us also respect one another's relations. But when it comes to these covers, I said that as a woman, I object because it is not an expression of religious affiliation. Finally, the threat of terrorism in Europe is increasing and Slovenia is not safe. Under a blanket like this, there's a lot to hide, not a woman, if you say so. From this very point of view, I will also support this law. And it often happens to us that something bad has to happen, and then we beat the side of the bell and wonder why we didn't do anything. I am for freedom, for religious freedom, for women's freedom, and I am against these blankets that we would wear in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u127	Mr Dušan Radič has the floor to prepare Mr Matjaž Germany and Mr Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u128	Thank you very much. There are 16 million Muslims living in the EU today. Most of them are citizens of the Member States of the European Union who, regardless of their religious beliefs, respect the laws of the countries in which they live. Then it happened on September 11, 2001. Suddenly, debates began in the Western world on the appropriateness of Islamic dress. Not only clothes, they suddenly became a problem of minarets, mosques and Islamic cultural centers. Depending on the local situation, what of the above is the most disturbing political situation in each country. Perhaps someone else remembers that in 2004 before the elections in Slovenia there was a debate on the risk of building an Islamic cultural centre in Ljubljana. 11 years ago, the threat to Slovenian security was the Islamic Cultural Center, which today is a threat to Burke. Talking about concealment and covering is being misused to describe the danger Islam is supposed to pose for the development of the West. This started in 2010 in the European Union. In 2010, when no one ever dreamed of the refugee and migrant crisis. It started in France and Belgium and continued in the Netherlands solely with the aim of generating political points for individual parties. The facts are as follows. Only seven days after the collapse of the Belgian government, the Belgian Lower House passed a law prohibiting the wearing of Muslim clothing covering the face. Similarly, in France, the French National Assembly approved a law prohibiting the wearing of burks in public. What is even more interesting is that the big campaign against wearing the Burkes of Nikola Sarkozy was launched after his client suffered a severe defeat in the local elections. And to finish some more numbers. In France, there are 3 million Muslim women, according to the French police, who last year conducted an extremely extensive study of how many Muslim women wear burqa or nikaba in France, came to the number 367, of 3 million Muslims. Not 367.000. 367. Finally, I looked at the latest edition of the Slovenian Book Language Dictionary. I've been taping the burka, and I've found the only burka that says the burka is crazy behavior or talking. I also joked about it, and it turned out there were no hits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u129	Mr Matjaž German has the floor to prepare themselves for Mr Igor Zorčič and Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As has been said, there are 50,000 representatives of the Muslim community in Slovenia. I think we can all admit that in the vast majority we have very good relations with them and very good experience. Another experience with the Muslim community, which in the last wave, in recent months has in some way been flooding Slovenia in addition to other countries, i.e. between representatives of the Muslim faith and the community, at least according to the information I have available, has not been able to track the individual receiving such coverages as we are talking about today. But we know another third group, and you can correct me if there is another group, and these are the Muslims who come to Slovenia as tourists or they may be representatives, representatives, I will say, people who are employed here from diplomatic programmes or business programs. I must say, when I was preparing for this meeting, I did not find that at any time in the Republic of Slovenia, I will touch the other countries later so that anyone with such a cover would be involved in any situation to endanger anyone. It is said that Slovenia has no such experience. When I listened to my colleagues and colleagues today in the debate, I received some association about the Slovenian wolf and the problems, in connection with it, or about the Slovenian bear, if we want, but not about the Bengali tiger, I want to say that. We are talking about something that, once again, is not in Slovenia. I know that you will be able to say that in Slovenia it is necessary to prepare according to the experience of neighbouring countries. These were Belgium and France. True, these two countries have far the largest percentage of the Muslim community and considerable problems with certain representatives. But in the historical context, we find it difficult to compare ourselves with them. These were once imperialists or colonists who in some way were building a relationship with the representatives of the colonies, which is not yet saved today. On the other hand, we are talking about a security aspect. I think that, correct me, if not, at least in the terrorist attacks in France or anywhere in Slovenia I did not see that the dress was the one, to a large extent it was the gentlemen who were dressed in jeans. Jeans comes from the United States of America in a way. So I don't see any correlation here with wearing clothes. But I'm saying whether we can agree with faith or not, we can despise it or not, but it's up to us to see someone on the street if we meet him. As has been said, in Slovenia there are very few or none, at least in this form. I'm talking about nikab and burka. What, though, can cause our debate? That someone who wears this clothing will be seen by our citizens as someone who threatens him, but in fact this will, as an example, be just one good tourist who will visit Slovenia for a few days. Thus, we have a great responsibility to define ourselves on this issue. In the Islamic world, wearing such clothes is not just a matter of faith; it is also a social norm. That's what Muslims like to stress. In a way, I understand the view that when tourists come here, they have to adapt and act in a way that we do when we go to them. In a way, it's kind of my concern that we're going to be overwhelmed by some cultures that aren't ours. And also about culture, the proposer talked a lot. I wonder, we had Santa before Christmas, we had pumpkins before Halloween, we made love before Valentine's Day or even what I saw this year, we even had a black Friday, if you know what that is. It's the first time I've seen him. It's a day where a lot of shopping is supposed to be done. What am I talking about? That we can be very dual when we talk about which culture is the one that has the most influence. True, I agree, but we must take care of our own identity. But we will preserve it by being aware of where we come from and where we are going as representatives of the nation or people. That these people would be proud to be Slovenian. That's how we keep our culture alive. Not by exerting any kind of repression on anyone. We've seen a lot of photos before, if I'm not mistaken, of events in the Islamic world and myself, of some things I even agree with, but, you know, everyone, I'm going to touch human rights, that's what I'm referring to, I agree, in a lot of parts of the world, human rights have been cut short, but I say, in the Slovenian Parliament we're going to have a hard time strengthening, it's right that we have opinions, but it's hard to strengthen human rights beyond our borders. [[…]] We can talk about them, but don't waste our energy needlessly. As we say, let's stop talking about the Bengali tiger, let's talk about the Slovenian wolf and the bear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u131	Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor to prepare for Mr Mitja Horvat and Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u132	Mr President, thank you for saying so! Dear colleagues and colleagues! When I first heard about this bill, I first remembered one of my own cases. Now that it's wintertime and if time allows me, I sometimes go running into nature because it's cold air I have one such mask, only eyes are cut out, I use it for skiing in winter, and I wonder if it's forbidden. When I read the law, I realized that you weren't forbidding niab and burqa. And then I immediately asked myself, what if some Muslim woman would put this nicob or a burka that I don't know of, probably in some lace, put it down and put that sports hat on. Is that illegal? And it's not after this marriage. Let's say it says Elan or I don't know, some sports stamp, and everyone will ask themselves -- look, the wing has a traditional one, and then it has this sports hat, whether it's forbidden or not. In short, when you read this law, you see that you're in some bizarre situation, you don't even know what's forbidden or not. And in the end, you also find that there is a particular population, these are Muslim women, not Muslims, but Muslim women, who are discriminated against because of their faith, which of course our constitution prohibits. I'm not agreeing to a burk to understand, I think it's some relic of the past we're tracking first on television. I also traveled a lot in Muslim countries. I must say that I remember seeing one niab, I think that, in Turkey, even at the airport, there was probably some tourist from Saudi Arabia, but otherwise you can't see it in Turkey, I didn't see it in either Egypt or in the Arab Emirates, where I was also years ago, let alone in Slovenia. I have never seen this in Slovenia, and I do not agree that we must take something in stock so that it will not happen. Look, if this is gonna be a problem at one point, then we're gonna get it legal right away, I'm gonna do it but in a way that's not gonna be discriminatory to anyone. There has been a talk that this is already being accepted in Europe. Look, I read this marriage from France very well. What you said, Comrade Gorenak, it's not true. The French law states that face covers are prohibited. It doesn't say niqab and burka, but it says covers. But because they knew what was going to happen, they knew that there might be some disturbance between Muslim women, they called the big mufti from Paris at the parliamentary hearing, I don't know what his name is, the Internet is getting worse, and he said that Islam is not actually commanded by burk and nikaba, in short this law was passed. It also states the exception that in the case of sports events traditional events, for professional or health reasons, there is no such prohibition. But, as I mentioned earlier, it's a blanket, and there's no mention that it's some sort of dress of a religious community. And that is why this proposal of the law you have tabled is very problematic. Especially for our area, where we do not actually have these problems, which you state or say that we could have them and that we need to adopt one law. The law states that the reasons for the adoption of the law are both safe and cultural. You said yourself that security is not really what you want for future security, but you didn't at all justify it. Cultural Reason – very problematic for the Law on Public Order and Peace, because it smells like discrimination or pardon. If there was any reason, it would be the protection of Muslim rights. But then I don't know if it belongs to this law, maybe it would be better for someone else, of course, if it were a problem for us. Tell us how many women you have covered in these in Slovenia. We have Muslims, but they don't have that tradition. Most of all, we see this when we read reports on what is happening in Afghanistan or what was happening in Afghanistan during the Taliban era. There we witnessed for the first time the great phenomenon of this. The Law on Public Order and Peace prohibits making noise, beating, begging, writing on objects, destroying state symbols, all in general. Then there is one prohibition, which applies only to women members of a certain religious community. I think it's unconstitutional and we just can't go there and because of this law, even if I don't like these burkas the most, I can't support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u133	Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Make sure you're not offended, I'll be very polite, but you have to read the laws. This marriage in its terms tells us what a burka is, and it tells us what niab is, in explanation of concepts. Therefore, Mr Radič is also right, it was imperative to explain what is one thing, another, because the burka in the Slovenian dictionary is a comic event, something like that. That's why it had to be explained. In a central article, however, it is very clear that those who wear nicob and burka in public are punished with so much and so much. Among other things, it is also forbidden to sleep in a public place. It's in the marriage, too. By the way, look, because you said that this was targeted at a group and so on, and that you shouldn't write, someone else said earlier that you shouldn't write a book or a burka. But then we would have come if we hadn't, and I explained earlier that we had first written blankets covering the whole or most of the face. Only then, if we brought such a marriage, would you say, I can no longer run in the winter with those hats, say. Then the cops, too, because you see them a lot in those actions when they're covered up, yeah, then it's illegal. There's no other way to write it. And the French didn't invent anything special either. Take a good look. And the ECHR used the exact term nicob and burka, so that the matter here is perfectly clear. You say I'll be in when there's a security problem. That notion is foreign to me. Before September 11, 2011, you were able to get on a plane in the United States, just like in Ljubljana on a local bus, I speak for internal flights because they had no security problems. And then it happened 11. September, however, they did a kind of thing, including the Internet, which is viewed across the board by those who have 5 minutes of time, say, that's how legislation was adopted. That's why I'm saying it's smart and good to act before you have a problem. Whether to act now or after some important object in Ljubljana will go up there to heaven. I think it's better to act sooner. Someone was saying, I think Mr Radič or someone already, I don't know who the threat is to the Islamic Center. Not everything can be said in the microphone and in the camera, because some of the data is also classified, but those who are members of the Security and Intelligence Supervisory Commission, take a little look at the archives there by 2000-2002. There's very interesting information in there. Very interesting information. Do you think the Swiss are democratic? I think they are. Isn't Switzerland a democratic state? And they made a referendum, and they said – what – there are no minarets in Switzerland. Is this a violation of human rights? Has the ECHR heard from you? No one's answering. No one answered, but they did. However, there is no dispute between the richest or how already in Europe or one richer and so on and so forth. It's not a big deal. I think we should be a little proud of ourselves and our history. That would be good. And don't be completely adaptable to anything that comes over Kolpo up here, or from anywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u135	Replica, Mr. Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u136	I have to respond. I told you, there are exceptions to the French law for sports events, traditional, professional reasons, health reasons. But the ban is common to all. And they didn't say, but you're either a woman or a man, and you can't have anything. They all said, for security reasons, no cover-up. And that's the difference. But you've focused, probably because of these events with this crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u137	He's got a magic word first. Branislav Rajić, then prepare Dr Mitja Horvat and Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u138	Thank you, President. Hello, everyone on this side of the camera! First of all, I must say that the introduction of the proposaler has disturbed me to some extent. In the end, you said you were inviting us to spit. I don't spit even when a black cat crosses my path when you cross it, but I expect a decent debate, so in that sense I ask you to understand this answer. I will not agree with the proposal for amendments to the Law on the Safety of Public Order and Peace, because, as it is, it does not belong to where modern civilisation must go. The motioner misjudges that women were covered with burka and no threat to our safety. Moreover, it is very close to the limit of religious intolerance, which is clearly contrary to Article 41 of our Constitution, which clearly prohibits it. Of course, the threat of terrorism is on the rise, and we probably all feel the responsibility to act in the direction of preventing it. The ban on wearing burka and nikaba would probably only cause a revolt among Muslims and would not meet the objectives of better security. Let's take one example. A lady who wears a burka out of religious belief and is determined to carry out a terrorist act will not abandon her purpose because of the ban on the burka. She will probably wear a costume over the burka, such as a goddess, a Venetian mask, perhaps a nun costume with large sunglasses and will also explode. Therefore, it is unwise to aim at the neurological points of Muslims whose sensitivity is relaxed in any way by supplementing this law. Muslims in Slovenia are neither militant nor angry and are very much ours. We live in times when Islamic terrorists recruit from a range of angry young Christians. Anger is what gives them the monstrous power to cut people's necks. And we must do our utmost not to incite these wraths to men. Let's see how their safety code lives up. Remember a relative who spent 40 years ago explaining how he didn't need it and wouldn't use seat belts in a car. Today he is not such a hero, and everyone has become accustomed to the fact that the fastening of seat belts is essential, and also to the possession of children in safety seats during driving. Very soon we will probably start monitoring and controlling the faces of people in public places, institutions, shopping centres, city centres, because of the presence of terrorism. Then it will certainly be self-evident that all faces must be revealed and no one will oppose it, as it will be clear to all that this is the ultimate goal of our common security. At that time it will be sufficient to supplement the law only in the sense that the view of people’s faces must be undisturbed. The objective will be achieved without provocative interference with religious freedom and without what is being done in this proposal. Is it a matter of addressing angry and apprehensive xenophobics, excluding believers and racists? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u139	Dr Mitja Horvat has the floor to prepare Mr Jani Möderndorfer and Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u140	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Dear Members and Members, Representative of the Government! Once you get used to your sense of humor, your life is easier. But as long as he's taking things seriously and he's surprised, he's looking for meanings. What I want to point out is that Dr. Vinko Gorenak has had a pleasant time with us today with his views on the proposed law. And, of course, I won't be able to reach his level. So I'm going to take a different path. I believe that the bill has also been tabled on your part, that you have not missed Mr Gorenak, and I will now say so. I think that you have also tabled a bill in your party without serious purpose for discussion and for its adoption, as I am used to at least a little more carefully prepared proposals for the law. But here I can see that you've put in something that we can spend it on because we've all been expecting a serious debate to take place, five hours of the National Assembly. Why do I say that? Because you initially wrote that the assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the law is that it deals with issues of public order and peace in public places as well as in private spaces. Among other things, it prohibits and sanctions begging in a public place, as well as staying overnight in a public place, but does not address the issue of wearing blankets for the majority or for the whole face of an individual. Of course, this has nothing to do with each other. Please note that the Road Traffic Safety Act prohibits an individual from wearing a mask while driving. Pika. You think covering your face in public places can be a security issue. Nice. Let us see what the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace stipulates. This law regulates the protection of public order and peace and lays down practices which constitute a violation of public order and peace in a public place or in a private space and sanctions for such conduct. Article 1, second paragraph, which states the purpose: “The purpose of this Act is to exercise the right of persons to safety and dignity by protecting them from acts which affect the physical and mental integrity of an individual or an individual.” This is not to say that it is in itself a matter of covering the face and that the law does not prohibit or even cover the majority or whole of the individual’s face in any way following that purpose. And also by impeding the exercise of rights and the duty of people, state authorities, authorities of self-government local communities and holders of public powers, of course it does not, since the law on the execution of police duties clearly sets out what we can do in such cases. Therefore, simply in the law itself, you do not even say that this is a security issue, which, of course, you are now entering in the debates, that this is a security issue, but that it is a problem in itself. It's not. Because he doesn't follow any of the purposes. If we had this serious purpose, which I believe you do not have, we would have written something in point 2 between the goals, principles and the main solutions of the law. So you simply wrote that the basic purpose of the law is to regulate the issue – to resolve the issue we could also propose a new law; it is not exactly the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace for this purpose – that is to say, the issue of wearing burk and nikaba, covered the whole body in a public place. There is much more to being the goal, not even the principles, of course we do not have and we do not actually find the purpose in this proposal. When I look at the matter further, I note that you also find it correct that the acts of the European Union do not regulate these issues. And even when you're referring to country-specific arrangements, you're also going to come into some kind of contradiction. So that I don't know if you've written this down, you're not careful enough, so I'm saying that you probably didn't have a serious intention, because you haven't prepared this, either, because you've been talking about all the covers that cover most or all of the face of an individual that has raised a lot of dust in France since 2010 being banned from wearing burks in public places, it's up to the European Court and 2014 to confirm the decision to ban the wearing of burks in public places. Above you claim covers that cover most of the face, but below you already claim that it confirmed the decision to ban the wearing of burks. So, I see a certain discrepancy. I believe you will make this clear below. And if we're on a security level. Unlike some previous debaters, let me just say that, if it is a security aspect, you probably have something else in your mind, it is probably not in itself a security issue if a woman walks in secret around the world, in part or in full, on her own. You probably want to say something with this, but I believe that a person like that right now in our society is paying attention to everyone rather than by covering himself with a blanket that covers his whole face or maybe even his eyes, rather means he's more visible than hiding or hiding from the public. At least as far as I know the habits of people in this country, it is so that if a person gives up a little bit, everyone turns around and, of course, they also comment on what he looks like or what he does. So much for this part of your proposal. If I look at the article myself, we're back to where we were the last time. Of course, you only define the meaning of the terms, paragraphs 6 and 7: “The burka is a Muslim woman’s clothing that covers the whole body, including the eyes that are covered by a densely intertwined dance.” And 7: "Nikab is a Muslim woman's clothing, where the whole body is covered, the eyes are visible." And now, what do I mean by that? In the 10a article you are proposing, you first have the title of this article, the prohibition of wearing blankets that cover the entire face or most of the face, although you have defined these terms above and could peacefully give the subtitle to niab and burka as follows. Then don't even talk about the ban on wearing blankets that cover the entire face or most of the face, but skip to the fact that someone in a public place wears a burka or niqab is fined 100 euros. At the very least, of course, what is the purpose of this ban, why this is contrary to the intent of the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace, to explain a little about what security or individual is now, its dignity, or anything threatened to the point of punishing someone. In particular, I do not understand, of course, why an object should be seized in this case. Here, too, I would expect some explanation as to why this is important. Or just to prevent a person from further violating public order and peace, or perhaps there is another reason for the seizure of an item, because the seizure is a matter of action, although on a relative property issue, so there must be some reason. I do not see any explanation in the explanation of the second article or in the third article, so I say what I said at the outset that your purpose was obviously not the one presented in today's debate. I advise you to either withdraw or, of course, prepare a better proposal for a law to finally tell us what the purpose is and that we will be able to discuss it. Right now, we're all more or less confused, and we're kind of wandering around in the dark to figure out what your intention is. Unfortunately, this is not evident from your document of the bill, but I am surprised by what the Government has given you in its reply, and it has given you some recognition that you have expressed this. Because I can't find what the government has found in your document. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u141	The text is by the proposer, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u142	Yes, of course I must answer you immediately. Look, you've done such a nice analysis, legal, because you're also a lawyer, because that's nice. But complete the marriage if you think something's missing. Save the amendments for the second reading, and everything will be fine. And this is going to be a little cooperation between the coalition and the position, and we're going to have a marriage. But I'm saying that our purpose was serious, only your purpose is not serious. If we have a serious intention of supplementing the law, you have to vote in favour today and then write the amendments, and that's it. Don't expect us to take back our marriage, or else look, let's make a deal. How many - 35,000 officials we have are under your command. How many are in the Justice Department? I don't know. 300 of that. What kind of law did they write about systematic investigations? It's like he's writing shame up there now, and he's locked up. And you read to us who write for ourselves, we don't have 300 officials, and these are the Members themselves, some kind of professional associate, help, complement, welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u143	He has a word, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer. Get ready, Mr. Janko Weber and Mr. Mark Ferrug.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u144	Thank you very much. With today's debate and the presentation of the proposal, the imaginary burka has in fact fallen long ago and revealed its purpose after my predecessor wondered what the purpose of this bill was. Of course, it is just and alone, it is populism and of course what is now a trend, to distribute and open up some topics that can be very popular at the first ball and readily acceptable to the Slovenes and Slovenes who are actually on one side – do we want burke? That everyone in the Burkes would walk? No, not all of them. As a liberal, I must say that, of course, I have a problem if I can make a decision, yes or no, because I have a certain relationship to certain issues. However, if you put on the other side of the scale the question of freedom of faith and of course respect for certain cultural practices, of course this would be considered as a liberal and would say that they have the rights that we have. Of course, when we talk about the security aspect, I will not go into this issue because more or less of my predecessors have all answered very clearly and precisely that we do not have this problem because we already have this legislation regulated. But I have a problem where, of course, your party president, when he tabled or presented a bill at the press conference, then, you know, tweeted the next thing about Janša having a problem because he switched his fight against communism to fight Islam. Today I would like to fix this tweet a little bit, if I had the chance again, but I won't, because I can't because it's a boring topic, I'd say the following. John always knows what he learned in the past. That's more or less what we all do. You know the burkas in the Yugoslav Paradise, Bosnia and Herzegovina, in 1950, the Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina banned. But no one was following them anymore, and it is necessary to know that he was at the time in the AFZ drive, which, of course, had this relationship, so that we will not be too long in terms of the liberation of women and feminism. Of course, he drew this parallel and we know where he actually had the opportunity to learn it. Now what's really important about the whole thing is just one thing. We will be able to simply decide whether to step in with time and, of course, respect, I will say, co-existence. One of the things that is very important is that we are not monocultured, but we have been multicultural for a long time. This is simply necessary, cohabiting in the country. But I absolutely agree with everyone that Slovenia has its culture and its customs that it cherishes and I am proud of them. But to read and ban someone, of course, is nonsense, especially because we already have this issue settled. The following is missing in your marriage if you were to announce this law that you have proposed, after this analogy, you should not walk in the Burkes on a desert day. This seems extremely foolish and stupid to me, especially because deserting Slovenian cultural custom and socially accepted and we have all experienced it in one way or another at least once in our lives. One of them gives up, and one of them is 365 days. Now, of course, the problem is when we finally ask ourselves what your basic and fundamental purpose and message is. Of course, I always wonder the following: you were the Minister of the Interior, but at the time of the Minister of the Interior you did not come to the place of mind to come up with such a proposal for a law. Nor did the President of the Government come with such a proposal, but this was after the law had already been passed in Paris. It has not occurred to you that now is the time and the right time to submit to European culture and let us know how and what. Finally, only one clear message, Slovenia, if it were to adopt such a law, would give a message to all Muslim countries that it cannot participate economically and economically with them, because simply in the way you imagine it, is something negative for me. Of course, in the famous populist saying, as always, you of course end up saying, they'll get used to living in our backyard. I say that they will, they will integrate, but at home they will have their customs and I will respect their culture until the last.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u145	First of all, Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the text.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Well, that wasn't an insult to John Janša. No, no, no, no, no. That's how I understood when you were talking about how he changed, and I don't know what. Well, you're proud of our culture. Mr Moderndorfer, Möderndorfer, as it were, that I will say your last name, look, you are not disturbed by the burke, the bells that have been ringing in Slovenian space for a thousand years, and that bothers you. Are you Slovenian or what? Thank you very much. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u147	There's no time, I'm sorry. Procedural. Doctor, this time there's no Dr. [[advertising from the hall]] . No, it will. Order! Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u148	At the outset, I said that the debate had already stated its purpose. And Mr Gorenak's debate is more than clearly offensive. First, because it leads to this end where there is no discussion today. Mrs Ludmila Novak, I have questioned, that is, when she mentioned the bells, and now he has mentioned Gorenak. First of all, I've never fought and never asked for the ban on ringing. But I was talking about the fact that ringing too loud in the urban centers. The church respected this and gave its message and instructions to lower the sound of ringing in urban centres, and I am satisfied with it and, of course, they understood earlier than you, who still use it for political purposes. And warn Mr. Gorenak that he should stop complaining. Thank you very much. / advertising from the hall/
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u149	The replica won't go to procedural. Look, I think today has been a very big day. From specimens to Janezkov, I don't know what I might consider to be insulting, but as long as they have the opportunity to answer, they can answer themselves, I don't need to limit it. Word for procedure, Mrs. Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u150	It's famous for that saying, "If you step on your tail, you're going to wheeze." I didn't mention you, Mr Möderndorfer, but I had in mind a gentleman who tied the bells so they couldn't ring.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u151	Now Mr Andrej Spang, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u152	Thank you, President for your word. In the meantime, it has been exposed to the performance of police tasks, i.e. the Law on Police Tasks and Powers, once again, I say that Article 40 lays down the conditions for determining identity, and Article 41 also defines ways of identifying identity. On this basis, police officers may also require a person who is covered or disguised to reveal himself in order to clearly identify him. The security problem that you raised at the outset, Mr Gorenak, linked to migration flows, we did not detect a security problem in migration flows due to the wearing of burka or nikaba. You could also see from the media that women didn't wear burks. In the case of driving a car, this is also regulated in the Road Safety Act. Persons shall also be required to demonstrate themselves in proceedings against public authorities or private security entities and where the identity of a person needs to be established. So the proposaler is talking about the security issue, and before that, it is stated that people do not feel that the migration flow and migration crisis are still going on and on at the daily inflow of up to 5,000 people. I can only say that the Government, the Ministry of the Interior and the police respond adequately to the migration wave and ensure the security of our citizens and also the security of migrants. And that's a great pleasure to meet you. With regard to the entry of a person with none into the National Assembly, the condition for entry is an invitation, identification, accompanied, security check, luggage check. That is how this person, who entered the National Assembly today, also examined himself, so you, Comrade Gorenak, need not be afraid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u153	Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u154	I believe the police did their job, but just before, the president tricked me when I was talking about the specimens. President, do you know what happened? Did you go upstairs and take a look? I didn't. And to me, he's a person. I don't know what he is. But I believe the police have done their job, and there's probably no doubt about it. I believe you've done your job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u155	Slovenian. A person in Slovenian is a normal name if you don't want to be insulting. Yeah. But we're not going to go any further. No, we'll skip that now because it's not. [[…]] Mr. Marko Ferruga is next. Prepare Mr Primož Hainz and Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u156	Thank you for your word. It is also a greeting to the State Secretary and to the gentleman from the Ministry. What is the basic purpose of this law? And at this point, which is very tense with this, I'm going to say, marking the religious community as Muslim as some kind of negative phenomenon. This is a very, I will say, such a delicate signal that I think none of us, not even here in Slovenia, where we have a very good relationship with the Islamic community and a very good co-existence. And here I see one shred of this attempt to radicalize these relationships. Unfortunately, the intention here in this law is twofold, and we have to be careful of that. Slovenian society is a very open society, a very tolerant society, like most of Europe, and it falls into some extreme and some issue of security and action on some intolerance, stigmatisation and radicalisation, I do not think that at the moment we are facing this refugee crisis and all these reactions that are both on the side of the Muslim world, both on the side of, say, these radical Muslim terrorists, are very dangerous. Why am I saying this? Europe and, among other things, Slovenia was regarded as a magnet for all people who want to live a tolerant life, where there is some coexistence, some multiculturalism. With these measures, I think we're going into another matter entirely. In a matter where we want to radicalize without any big arguments. Slovenia is, thank God, very safe and we all feel very good about it. And keep it that way. That's why we have the organs that do this. But here it is important that we not forget what the predecessors have already mentioned, our habits. Slovenian customs and culture are one thing, fear of Islamisation is another. We should also sometimes ask ourselves, however, if it would not be wiser to have a fear of the Americanisation of this Slovenian society. It is also one of such interesting things that happens to us to forget about our customs and culture, but we are very quickly Americanized because it is a very interesting matter and is also very present, and in the final stage it is also in a kind of consummism and capitalism that is present with us. The danger of a negative attitude on the part of the State as such should be borne in mind that the neutrality of the State from religious communities is also one of the very important factors. None of the things that would follow would be welcome in this. Now, as far as the subject of burka and female emancipation is concerned, it makes sense to put it on the table, including within the EU, and also in a global issue, to put it as an interesting topic for discussion and action. Here you absolutely need to see that there are different aspects to all of this. Burkes as such can be social, emancipation, religious, political and other causes. This question can be addressed in many ways. The Law on Public Order and Peace itself must indeed have some public interest in regulating this area. At this point, I personally do not see this threat as such that we could legally define it and that it would disturb someone so much that we should actually regulate it so. As far as the security threat is concerned, my predecessors have also repeatedly said that those wearing burkas have already been seen in public so much that it is already visible in itself and in our midst. On the other hand, the definition as a security threat can also be said that, for example, the Kurent of Security is, for example, I speak, and as Mr Möderndorfer has said before, that deserting can then be delicate immediately. To conclude, I wish that we were truly in Slovenia with an open spirit and that we would like to take steps forward and not in some direction of the Middle Ages and the Inquisition. That's why I don't support this law, I'm sorry. And even today, or on Friday, when we talk about it, and in the final stage on Sunday, we will show how Slovenia is advanced, how it wants to take steps forward, not that we somehow limit ourselves and stay here and chat in our place, not to look to the future. Let me finish, say, Burkes and Burkes, and we'll all be happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u157	Mr Primož Hainz has the floor to prepare Mrs Iva Dimic and Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Of course I'm not going to be legal again, but I'm going to be more human or from the point of view somehow, I'd almost say, common sense say a few things like some kind of comment. I have to say first, what my colleague said about the mosque. By the way, the problem with the mosque has been since 1978, when they discovered that the brass on Grablovič Street is too small, and they made their first requests and then this problem has dragged on for decades. It hasn't been since 2004. But let's just leave it. Since in the meantime Zagreb was probably a big investment for Muslims, there was no money left. Of course, we also invented all sorts of reasons, then they did it in Zagreb, well, and now this thing has gotten rid of it, but it's only for information. The second thing that was said in the introduction about, I would have said to the Muslims, that's true, I was of course already in Beirut and Syria in 1967 and I was there of course also in Casino du Lebanon I came to that restaurant, half the sheiks drank whiskey and half the cocoa. Today, of course, this is no longer possible in the Muslim world. In short, things are going back in some way. But now that's the problem that's their problem. My thesis is quite clear. They have to handle this on their own. Just as they regulate their lives, so do you. We can't export democracy. On behalf of exports of democracy, many different things have happened in history. And I think that this approach is, of course, an integral part of what is called neocolonialism, which today is causing great tragedies, including the war in Syria, when the West, the so-called world, sells weapons to both things. [[…]] But let's just leave it. But there's another question. What's with us now? Because you've come to the point where in our home yard they can adapt to our situation. Of course, that's logical at first glance, but if we're a little more human, that's true. It's not human to say you can't. Because one question is how a person walks on a road, where no burka actually bothers me, and the other is the question of public institutions, what is also a question that occurs in legislation, school, I don't know, at police stations, mentioned the airport, it is quite clear that at the airport people have to identify themselves, and that is what the police do in their own way. I don't care how, she has to figure out who's going through and who's there. Even in the National Assembly, I believe that the boys downstairs have done their job, and I have no doubt that they know exactly who came into the house, as they always do. So the identification of a person is not at all controversial, and of course there is no discussion of how someone is dressed. But if, of course, he masquerades, he masquerades, all sorts of people on the road, some face masks change. In short, I don't think that's the case. Of course, I also wanted to say a word about empty car masks, but Dr. Horvat worked it out. [[…]] It's forbidden because it's simple, if you're dressed like this in a mask or a burka, of course you can't drive like this. That's probably what the police are sanctioning. That's what I imagine. That's how the law is written. Then there was a talk today about the protection of Muslim women from the heat. I have to say, Bedouins dress in heavy black clothes because of the heat, that's not exactly on the line of female emancipation. Well, but what I have to add, of course, is that it doesn't look too naive, but of course it is that the discussion with security has absolutely nothing. A woman or a man in a burka raises so much attention that, of course, he does not carry a weapon or a bomb. This is what those who are simply wearing jeans are the peaceful citizens of some part of Paris, as we have seen, but it was not just there. These are people who are already adapted, who don't cause suspicion. Of course, the security authorities have to carry out their tasks there, and I think that will be the case with us in the future. I think that the problem, of course, around this security at this point at least the burk, that is, the dress for ladies, is certainly overestimated. Maybe that's all there is to it. Today this expression of discredit was very often used in the debate. Of course, I'm not discrediting anyone personally. However, if I think otherwise, then of course I do not call it discreditation, because discrediting means taking credit, it is written in the Dictionary of Slovenian Book Language as it was quoted today. This view is, of course, created or broken by each Member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u159	Mrs. Iva Dimic has the floor. Prepare Mr. Zvonko Lah and Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Wearing nikiba and burkas seems to make integration impossible. The importance of integration is just a case that happened in Paris. The people who caused or caused this situation in Paris, these horrors, were finally people, as my predecessor, the people, said, dressed in plain clothes. But there's something important here. These people don't integrate, nobody's dealt with these people. These people were left somewhere on the edge of Paris, no one took care of these people, they were unemployed, they were actually no one's business with these people, and then they were used by those who came as migrants, as refugees also across our territory of Slovenia to Paris, who got abandoned somewhere, and then somehow got them into some extreme that they were able to do such an abomination. That is why integration is important. But we can integrate as much as the state can. We know how much Slovenia can do because the numbers have already been told. But I would like to say how a nation that does not respect its own culture will be able to make this culture possible for others. I'm listening here today, and I'm wondering if we respect our culture. As long as we have this bill on the table, it seems to me that we are comparing our own culture, not talking about some Kurents and so on, which I think is an insult to our culture to compare with such things. It's not comparable. To say, in the National Assembly, the delegation of Saudi Arabia, which some Members had also accepted, talked to them, had an open dialogue. Among them was Mrs. As well, I will not say directly elected because they had only this year's elections, but as elected in their Parliament of Saudi Arabia, although it is not called so. This lady did not come dressed in their burkas or nicobos, the lady was dressed as we were dressed as ours, the lady came into the costume. So the lady respected our culture. Even when our delegation went to Iraq or Israel, even our professional associates could, there was a prescribed dress to dress up when you came to a country that had pants and clothes on. So I think it's important that we respect each other. And, of course, those who come to our country respect our culture, our habits and our right not least. I'll go to another area. I'll go to school. Let me know if you have an answer to what the professor will do when he comes to the exam, whether a lady dressed in a nicob or a burka, when he demands her integrity, I wonder what it will be like if he does not allow me to do the exam, if it interferes with her integrity, or if she asks her to be identified, but if it is an intervention — what — into her religious freedom. I wonder how this ends. Is there going to be a call from the police who will come, who has a marriage to come and identify this student or student? I just want to know what it is. And I have to point out that this is not a problem now in Slovenia, but we know what kind of marriage we have as regards family reunion. That's when I'm warning you. Because we have a marriage, which is very large, very wide, not to say from the father-in-law, father-in-law, cousins, a little less old parents and everything, we have a law that unites in this way. I wonder if we have solutions for such matters. And how do you implement the school program when a girl comes dressed in long clothes, she has a visible face, even for exercise? I think that this is currently impossible in Slovenia to implement a physical education programme that requires certain exercises, I do not know how to skip over goats and so on, where this is not done. I know this is happening. I got this information at this time, as far as we're talking about it. So we're talking about things that are practically already between us, and we're still discussing whether it's a woman's dress or whether it's a man's dress or whether it hurts religious feelings and so on. I already told you, the amendment solves a lot of things. And today I have not heard any wish that for my own safety, to respect my own culture, to respect my own safety, it is the will of the coalition. Things are open to correction. Come to the opposite. Why do we always save things in this country only when they're wiped out? We knew there were waves of refugees coming, we knew we could take action at the right time. But we went back too late, so we're looking for ourselves and hunting ourselves somewhere. Why don't we settle this when it's possible? With readiness alone, the amendment solves all matters that bother you. You have a majority to change that, but not to reject the Priory. And once again, if we do not respect and lay the foundations and origins of our own culture, others will not, they will be theirs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u161	Mr Zvonko Lah has the floor to prepare Mr Jože Tanko and Mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u162	Thank you very much, President, for your word. It's not exactly my favorite theme, but I'm gonna try and add some thoughts here. When I read in the media the statements of the Russian President, who received the ovation in Russian pride, when he said that whoever comes to Russia will act as Russians, that he does not care about where he comes from, where he comes from, but in Russia it will be like the rules in Russia and how they behave in Russia. I also heard from the position that we should not wear this in public institutions, and how we should not have women's faces covered in cars, and probably not on the beach, and not on the disc. Yeah, what else do they have? Maybe a lot of people, because the younger ones would even do them a favor so they don't have to wear it. My friend Vinko used to say it was some kind of national costume. As far as we can see from the various media and videos, it's not like they shoot down those who don't wear blankets on the street. Even this is happening. Then it's not a national costume. And I'm sure it's not such a big sin to ban it from us in those days when a bunch of refugees, migrants also come to Slovenia, to know in advance that we respect their culture, when we go down to them, when you go into the mosque, you have to take your feet off and go, you can't go in the boots, because you respect because you have to go. So let them respect our culture here if they have no other reason to do so. I don't see anything wrong. When someone mentioned that it had nothing to do with safety, I'm sure it's a lot easier under a bursko hidden aKalashnikov than wearing jeans and sweatshirts or a striped belt. This is happening in France. And there's nothing wrong with me if we're a little bit more advanced on this side. If we are working on family law to be among the most advanced, let us be here to prove to them that in Slovenia there is such a culture that we act like a dot. That's strictly taken into account, and I don't think anything's wrong. But if it bothers anyone, let him go back to where he came from if he can't. Here we discussed earlier the inclusion of migrants or asylum-seekers at the time to learn Slovenian, but I don't know, and perhaps some kind of contract would be good to sign with them. This is happening in other European countries. On one side. On the other hand, they can wear burkas and I don't know what else to do because I don't think it's right. And there will be a time when we want this law to be adopted earlier, as likely as any other legislation, exacerbated as far as migrants or refugees are concerned. I think it's time for us to realize that we have our culture, our customs, and I don't know what else, like all nations. Those who come – another is if someone comes here by accident for a few days on vacation, it can still be tolerated in some way, but it is also known that someone will live here for years and decades, but will not join our society, adapt, and that is not understandable. If Slovenia wants to become their new country, as we said before, that they sold everything at home, went into the world, into a better life, then they must also accept that there are different customs, different rules and that they must behave differently. I think it's perfectly normal that we can't adapt to those, because in Western countries it's already happening that girls or girls don't hope to walk out in short wings anymore, either in the evening or in the dark, because they don't feel safe anymore, which certain things are happening. Will we allow this to happen to us? Will we adapt to them if they have to carry our women where most Muslims will be created? Is that what you want? I don't think so. Let us protect ourselves with one law that takes nothing away from them. I think we have every right to be a nation as such, with our culture with our customs. Let those who come to us conform to our regulations, not that we will be theirs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Here you go, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u164	Thank you. Pretty short. A little while ago, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs comforted me as the police did everything they could. Tell him he was in direct violation of Section 12 of the Police Act. And I'm not going to bother you with that. How does he know that, because he can't know that because it's not an extraordinary event, it's not a plane crash, it's not an atomic bomb, it's nothing like that. It's specified there when the ministry can be informed of anything. But I'm broad-minded, and I'm not going to complicate anything about it. But it's a violation. Let's get this thing over with. Look, SD sees he's turned on the propaganda machine, studying my resume. I see it on Twitter. But ask me directly if there's anything else you'd like to know. But that wasn't the point. In fact, warm water found out where I was at work, one of yours, yes. What I volunteered for is basically the following. Look, as long as we as a nation act the way we do, I don't know what the future of this country is. The wide door of nikabu, burkam and everything else, ringing in church is a problem story, but if you burn the cross, you're a national hero. At least that's how it is in the left political sphere and in the media. As long as we do so, and until we are proud of ourselves and our roots, until we protect this culture, we are doomed to failure. This was said by many before me, who knew much. But what's going on now, I'm going to say, but the situation is relatively clear, and we're going down. We will fall as a nation. It's a fact, everything that's foreign, everything that's not ours, is welcome. And since in the former Yugoslavia we had a whole bunch of people who moved from other republics to this area, and we had people who didn't speak Slovenian after 30 years because they didn't want to speak Slovenian, you know exactly who I mean, which group. But we had people who in two years or in one year learned Slovenian and spoke Slovenian quite nicely, that you didn't really know who they were. The one who comes into our house, we must command, we must tell him how he will behave, and we must lay down rules for him. But if he doesn't want to respect it, he can go anywhere he wants. Where he wants to go. The Australian Prime Minister said very well: You are welcome with us, but you will behave as we say. We didn't invite you. You came alone. You can be here and our rules must be respected. But if something doesn't work out for you, you can go. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what I would have imagined from the Prime Minister. That's what the Prime Minister has to say, that's what the President of the State has to say, I don't know, the President of Parliament, if you want. These are persons who, of course, have some authority that has power, their word means something. Are we capable of doing this? We didn't. Look, what did Mayor Vancouver say a while ago when they asked him not to have pig meat in kindergartens? He said nothing, because if you don't want to eat, you don't have to eat. That's about what he said. So one more time. Those who come to us can be welcome here, help them too, but they must respect our regulations, our laws, our regulations, our culture. But if something doesn't work for them, they can go somewhere else. We didn't invite them because they come alone because they're supposed to run or whatever. Ladies and gentlemen, a little pride! Proudness should be limited and should also be said out loud. Even those who think the same in the coalition, and this one, I'll tell you, the coalition roller of the soul. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u165	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Muršič, prepare Mr Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word, again. I, who is on duty today, as Mr Gorenak has mentioned, but Dr Vinko Gorenak, you who know all things, who know much, regardless of your conduct, do not mean that we must all, all the members of the group, also agree with you and share your opinion. Because if we were to share or share your opinions, we would probably be sitting on your side, not on this side, and we would be on your side. So much for the intro. And since I also think differently and have many different views, on Sunday I will also take part in the referendum despite voting against the referendum invitation and voting for the proposed law. Of course we can nod, but today two hours and there was something else in the referendum campaign, but let's leave it. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has also disputed the position of the delegation to read it. Yes, of course we read it. I told you once before, I'm telling you again today. There are 6 Members and Members of Parliament in the Group of Social Democrats. We are all drawing up the position of the Group of Members. We prepare him, we write him down, and we present him for the pay phone. We all agree with him. If there are differences, we coordinate them. However, in your parliamentary group, as it appears from your point of view, you may give a starting point, and I believe that many times many of your Members do not think the same way as those who represent the position. We have this, regrettably, written down, and six of us are behind them. In addition, I must point out that, in fact, my experience has led me to write to myself. And I have often found this to be very useful. That's why I'm going to point out this river The Smarts are writing, but I'm not going to continue it. Regardless of all your attacks you have had or your disagreement with our view of the parliamentary group, I still believe that you have used it to sow fear and intolerance among people to religiously and culturally different. I have already stressed in the parliamentary position of the Social Democrats that migration is, and migration will be, not only because of all these military troubled areas, but also because of the climate situation. Thus, other people will come into our space with other, different habits, knowledge, traditions, with one goal, to work and live a decent life. We too want to live in dignity and peace here. There's not much to add to the marriage itself. I think my fellow Members have said a lot, so Dr. Horvat, who has done a full analysis of this bill, has also quite well marked this bill. And even if we look at today's session, we had a representative on the balcony, I'll tell you which one was covered. I saw that she was a representative of the female sex. She was quietly monitoring our meeting, without any disturbances. I don't think I see any issue with that, either. But how our guards acted when she entered the house depends on the guards. And I believe she was well-lit. And nobody goes through all these cameras like that. I don't think we have any reservations about this burka. In fact, this law could be defined by the articles of the Constitution, but I will not go into it. Because I do have some legal knowledge, but not enough to be able to dispute anything about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Proposer, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u168	Thank you. I'm asking you to specify where, when, and how I attacked you. Make it more specific, not just paws. Tell me with this, this and this, and I'll apologize if I have to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u169	Thank you very much. He has a word, Mr. Uroš Prikl. Get ready, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u170	Your Honor, Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I really didn't intend to come to this marriage today, here with my colleague Laho I share my opinions, so I share my opinions, it's not somehow the topic that is closest to me or I don't know too much about it. I apologize for not sitting in the hall the whole time, I came later, I listened very carefully to the debate, but just that moment that I was very disturbed here or I didn't get a satisfactory explanation, and that is how it is. It says here in your proposal to amend the law that you believe that covering the face in public places can be a security issue. I apologize again if I overheard it or if it was said in the introductory phase when I was not here. And I've tried to search through memory somehow or imagine where this security problem might be, but I can't actually find it. Otherwise, I'll say my personal position. Of course, here I think that, I don't think, I'm sure that every prohibition, every command or whatever it leads anywhere means nothing good. Of course, I am not speaking here when it comes to weapons, drugs and so on, for things that directly or indirectly sow death, I suppose it is forbidden then to deal with this, to wear it, to use it and so on and so forth, but in the very way of dressing, if it commands, I will say, whether or not it is present in some culture of some nation, some wider population, and I do not see any problem for us, who of course do not wear it, that we do not respect it, and for those women who want to dress in this way, they want to be present in our environment, so that we do not leave it to them. I don't know if you've been writing a newspaper in the evening or a few weeks now, a reporter, I've really had my name out of my head, somehow changed or dressed this burka, in short, covered up her whole body, went around the city, nothing actually happened except that many people looked at it for that very reason, because there was something special in a crowd of people who just didn't hide the heavy work or the whole face. In the end, nothing happened, no moment of security was ever questioned. I think if we are so tolerant here and it is right that we are tolerant of the broadest meaning of the word to everyone who is slightly different or different from the vast majority in Slovenia, but I do not want to interfere with the field of the Sunday referendum of minorities, most of them and so on, that of course we have to respect it here and allow people to present themselves as they want in public if they are not dangerous to anyone. In this law, which is called the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace, I do not want us to be making one burka from this debate here in the National Assembly, a burka in terms of the definition of the Slovenian Book Language Dictionary, quote, "twirl behavior or speech" and so on and so forth, so that I do not read this quote. I thank you for your attention and I hope that we will all together be able to be very tolerant of other thinkers, otherwise "dressing" if I may say so, and we will let them express their beliefs and their culture and so on. Thank you very much again.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor. Let's get Dr. Dragan Matić ready. Here you go, Mrs. Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u172	Thank you for your word, chairman. Today, both in addressing the previous law on the so-called tightening of asylum policy and in this law, we have stressed that it is a matter of addressing the security and cultural challenges and problems facing not only Slovenia but all Europe. And that is why we have stressed that both of these bills, let us hope that they are still in force in terms of prevention, and that we still have some time available to legislate what might lead to or may be part of a greater risk. Yes, Your Honor, a security issue. Some of you have a lot of questions about this, and I don't practically have them in this area. For if we are talking about a security problem and if it has not yet come to the attention of someone, or if it has been enlightened, that Europe is facing these problems, then something is seriously wrong. Remember France, remember Paris and remember now other numerous forecasts of various terrorist actions. I think it's still an important security challenge. And you know exactly what the burkas and nothing to do with security. You've also talked about sensitivity when you think their religious beliefs are being violated. It won't hold. It won't hold. The secretary of the Islamic community said well that this is not a matter of Islam, but that it is a matter of custom. That is why I strongly oppose all those who said that we have something against Muslims in the Slovenian Democratic Party. This is in no way true, for Muslims themselves in many parts are fighting against wearing burks and nicobs. After all, this is also about a democratic shift. Earlier, fellow Member Vrtovec had demonstrated nicely how these clothes began to appear over time and that women in Iran fought against wearing burks and nicobs in 1979. That's the truth, Your Honor. As for the cultural aspect, I quoted earlier, it's a matter of custom. Your Honor, if I come to some area and I live there somehow further, I will do everything I can to get closer to the customs of that community. And that's the way it is. Does it not seem illogical to you that we must change our customs rather than those that come to us? That's unacceptable to me. It is normal for those who come into another environment to adjust their customs. Earlier, a colleague of SD said a lot about the fact that she didn't think it was a problem. I'm surprised she doesn't find it a problem given that the SD party somehow takes up space, how they fought for women's human rights, for electoral rights, for freedom and so on. Today, they do not mind that some women still have to be covered up in a democratic Europe. And one more thing to remember is that the advocates of burk and nicobs are mainly from those parts of the countries where rocking is still taking place. So I'm asking you if you allow women to burka and nicobs, or then you let men commit adultery by rocking? So I can get ready. For this is also their way of life. And if you get there, you practically can't do anything but observe it helplessly. That's what we're talking about, and we're not talking about Muslims. We are talking about extreme extreme ways of life, which, of course, are not suitable for a democratic world, but especially for a world based on certain values. And finally, I have never heard of all those who have been involved in politics for a long time, but when it came to interfering with values and believing Catholics, when we saw pictures of Mary with a rat, that was freedom of expression — come on! By knowing that most of the population in Slovenia is Catholic. So at the time, all their rights were violated, religious, and nothing happened. And one more thing, Mrs Iva Dimic spoke well earlier about what was going on in schools. That's what I'm interested in. In fact, some of you say it's not. I read an interview with a girl, she was 14 years old, from Slovenia, lived, I think, in Ljubljana, around Ljubljana, who decided to wear a burka or nikaba. She said that one time, another time like that. And she said, this is my way of life, and because of this way of life, I left school, elementary school, and I'm doing exams. Does this not seem problematic to you from a sociological or socialization point of view? Because it is her way of life, she prefers school at home, but at the same time, in this conversation, she said that she had no problem in school to be judged by anyone. It's only because of the way you live your life. But our way of life talks about compulsory primary school, of course we can also do it through exams, but not because of burks and nicobs. Not because of the burks and the nicobs. In short, as has been said, we have proposed both laws in the Slovenian Democratic Party as a particularly preventive measure. I believe he is needed and will be increasingly needed. And it is important that we show our values, our values, our way of life, our customs. We prefer to talk about it and talk to these people, not to say, we don't care what someone's carrying. I also see the problem of entering public institutions, both in the National Assembly and in the bank. I read somewhere that they must have a special employee for this because they must go to a special place where the lady then reveals her face. Who's paying for this, sir? When I get to the bank, I stand in line and wait until it's my turn, and I don't have any special staff for this. What's going to happen on the exams? I'm talking about college. What's going to happen on the exams? It means that there will have to be another special commission to identify an individual or an individual. These are the questions we're going to start with and we're going to have to start talking. Today we're talking about a smaller number, but we've told you what's going on with the migration wave. Once people who have now crossed the border illegally into Slovenia in the number of over 300,000 will come back and some will probably apply for asylum in Slovenia. Then it won't be that little. And given that after some predictions there are 3 million more migrants coming to Europe, and that you don't want to tighten the legislation on family reunification after the individual arrives alone, even though he's supposed to be threatened, I'm still saying that you're going to teach the children, the wife and you're going to run away together, not that you have a hundred thousand euros with you and you're traveling nicely through the country where you think you're going to live well. That's not a fugitive. It's an economic migrant. And when these family reunions occur, then perhaps some of you will hold your head. Only I hope that the events in Paris will remain only events in Paris for us and a warning and that nothing like this will happen in our country. At the same time, we did not feel that we were taking preventive measures that, as we say, do not affect anyone's human rights. This has already been said by the Constitutional Court of the European Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Proposer. Here you go, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u174	Thank you very much. I formerly asked Mrs Muršičeva, who accused me of attacking her, to make this concrete and tell me what. They didn't see the cameras, so she did it with her hand, and she went out. What can I think now? That she made it up, that it was a bottle. Sounds good to me that some robust man attacked her, and she's such a nice lady. That's not true. She lied. She's gone. Let's move on. For all those who talked about it, yes, what a danger it is, because it's not a danger, what danger it is, and so on and so forth. The following must be said. See, the Muslim states themselves decide on a legal ban in this area, it is said to be wearing burks and nicobs. Now I don't know what the majority of them are, say, Cameroon or Chad, I don't know what the majority of them are, but look, in Cameroon they decided to do this ban after a suicide attack by a person dressed in burka. In Chad, there was the same ban if you want when this group of Boko Haram attacked where the attackers were dressed in burqa. So now I don't know what should fall in Ljubljana? Presidential Palace, City Hall, Parliament? What might you do to realize that this may also be a danger? So this is a direct causal link. But I didn't say it was tomorrow. But the smart country does it sooner, not after it's too late. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Dr Dragan Matić has the word, and then the final words of the Government and the proposer are made. Here you go, Dr. Matic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u176	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Now, after hours of these apocalyptic visions of how the hordes of Muslim extremists will take us at any time, of course, some conclusions need to be drawn. The proposed law actually targets Muslims and refugees. But in a particular way, the Muslim community that lives with us, even though this is absolutely unnecessary, because Muslims are part of a society that has contributed greatly to its development, progress and so is likely to be in the future. And the fact is that from the Muslim women who are constantly staying with us, a negligible number is wearing burka or nikab, as has been said about these refugee contingents that crossed our border, it was not possible to see any lady carrying a burka. Is it possible for you, Mr Vice President, to warn gentlemen there because I'm disturbed? So if I focus, it's actually a minimum group of permanent and occasional people, women's sex. And for this minimum group of permanent and occasional people it is necessary to adopt a law, or it must be interpreted as the SDS gentlemen say, that we do not accept it as a stock, because there will be an alarming situation at any time when tens of thousands of radical Islamists will overwhelm us. From a security point of view, this is the first moment in which I justify the need to adopt this law, the whole matter, as the debate has shown, is rather absurd. The police are not reporting any problem in this regard, nor have there been any terrorist attacks in Europe in connection with any and there have been no reports, anywhere. Now that it is possible somewhere in Chad or Burkina Faso or wherever it has occurred, it is probably more understandable because there is such a dress of everyday life. In our country, however, it is so remarkable that the very appearance of someone who would move freely is such a warning sign for the entire surrounding area that it is virtually impossible for him to perform any illegal act, let alone a terrorist act. We have also heard that the police, by law, have all the powers to identify this person if they were disguised, in any way, with a ski hat, a niche, a burka or whatever, or with a motorcycle helmet. Now, if the SDS were so franticly concerned about security in our country, as Mr Zorčič has said, it could adopt a system law, as the French have banned any face and head coverings. Then we would state the exceptions where they consider that this is, however, permissible, in which, for example, time periods for desertion, for marriages, there might be other such justified cases, if they could then selectively take this as an exception to the general rule. But no, they went the other way around, target the minimum number of women who are constantly or occasionally in the Republic of Slovenia. I don't think I need a comment in my own right now, I mean, this security aspect is completely flawed and groundless. As for the cultural work of threatening Slovenian customs and traditions with burkas, I find it somewhat comical, in the style of Monty Python, that the people of Slovenia would suddenly be impressed with this fashion and begin to wear this mass dress and that the foundation of the vocabulary would be clouded, so it seems to me, as I would say, a rather satirical utopian vision. And now that these poor ladies, small numbers, in nicoba or burkas, who in our society and in the vicinity of some kind of white crow must be given such stigmatization, that they must be denied by law the right to wear it, it is, in my opinion, contrary to Slovenian culture and customs. I would just like to inform you that the last rule, which restricted or prohibited certain forms of wear, was passed there at the end of the 18th century, at the beginning of the 19th century. Since then we have no practice in this area, but you want to introduce some medieval or innovative practice in Slovenia. That's not what it was until now. Do you know what it used to look like? These were the dress codes prescribed by the government, say, the nobles were allowed to wear dresses, damast, atlas and other silks, then they could have had furs. Common citizens who are not nobles or knights or doctors must not wear gold, pearls, velvets, purples, silks, soothsayers, and hermelin skin. The handicrafts could wear a skirt that cost no more than one goldiard, farmers and other working people in the cities and in the country could only wear a skirt, the price of which did not exceed one ogre goldiard for the bath and so on. Thus, fashion supplements were specifically defined so that no one would err and that everything would be by the will of a monarch or a land prince. Since then, this culture has disappeared in Slovenian, and we no longer know it. We've had modernisation since the 19th century and everyone can wear what they want. Now another problem, which has nothing to do with it, as I have already said in the presentation of the positions of the parliamentary group, is that if someone were to force someone to wear something, but this is anything, it is not necessarily that I niab or burka, it may also be a miniskirt because of me, it is already a crime, by itself, under criminal law. And you can go after yourself if you prove it. And if the Ombudsman had detected this, she would have been very sensitive to such cases, believe me. And there are no such cases, and there are no students who show up in any of them, and we've asked the professors to take the exam, and we haven't heard. Let us speak again when there is such a problem, and we will be happy to discuss it, but not under this law on public order and peace. That's not the topic. Here you wanted to pay attention to yourself on the one hand and, on the other hand, scare part of the population, czech, how culture is threatened, Slovenian identity, with up to 20 women, they are gone. Or how security is going to be threatened, because a woman is going to cheat in nicobo – as Mr Lah said, I almost started laughing – some straps with dynamite and no one will see her, no one will stop her at the Presidential Palace, because she will just walk. I mean, it's really hard to understand how a serious marriage proposal can even get here and that we are now seriously discussing something that might be a problem if there is, I don't know, an apocalypse. In fact, we have no problem with this or a shadow at this time. As for those views that you have presented so beautifully, how you imagine Slovenian culture, that whoever comes, we must "command" him, so said Mr. Gorenak, he must listen to us, how he will know what kind of dress he will wear, but, I mean, I don't know if he will have to do any more of the cattle's parish on orders. I don't know how he's going to change him into something like that, so that he'll be close to us, that he'll be acceptable to us. You know, Mr Gorenak and colleagues from SDS, the difference between integration and assimilation is essential, integration means that someone comes into the country to get some status, now either an asylum or a foreigner or a temporary resident, whatever to respect local customs, to adapt to them, not to break laws, to get a permanent job, to at least after a certain period of time, that there is no longer a burden on society, to be able to take care of himself and his family. It's integration. What you're saying is assimilation. You want to have a uniform company, all the same, hats on your heads, we listen to radio, we listen to domestic checks. No, it's not a modern society anymore. These are ideals I don't know for a century. I don't know what you're committed to. This is no longer a modern society, nor is it in France, nor is it in Belgium anymore. And even in Germany, which you like to mention very much, there were no problems with any and no burka, and they have significantly more problems than we do. But there I saw in Munich that they were walking, and we didn't have them. If I do. The new law opens up problems that are not or wrongly addressed when they are, could only be from another point of view, perhaps a position of freedom of individual integrity, when someone forces him to wear something that he does not want, but it has nothing to do with public order and peace, not with security, or with the preservation of a Slovenian culture that has long been so that he accepts something different than most people to allow them to integrate, but does not require them to assimilate. And this is a very important difference that you want to overlook or reluctantly overlook in your deliberations. But here are the essential differences between us who are liberals and you who are, I don't know, conservatives or what I'd call right-wing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak asked Replica to take the lead, I apologize. [[…]] Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u178	We were appointed Members of the SDS and obviously completely misunderstood. Mr Matić, first of all, because it doesn't take 10,000 people to make something happen, a small group or even one or two is enough. Let's at least show a little compassion for the events in France. It would be right if you, as a Member, were aware of this problem and did not talk about the absence of security issues. Of course they are. And Slovenia is also the country that is in security and will become even more vulnerable. When you're talking about violence, whether these women have to wear it or not, I'm asking you a completely similar question. Every fifth woman in Slovenia is beaten. Is 1 in 5 a man punished? Of course not, because a lot of people are even afraid to report these things. So don't say he didn't force it. Of course they are. And, of course, we also want to talk about violence. Last but not least, in this National Assembly, I have proposed, through the question of Parliament, that a broader debate be held on this subject, only you have voted against. So don't talk to each other and do the other when you press the buttons.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u179	Thank you very much. I'm Dr. Vinko Gorenak's proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u180	Thank you very much! Once again, I ask Mr Muršičeva to explain to me where, when and how I attacked her. Before you had the chance, you had the time, it was all there was, and now please, if you make the president an exception, and you give her one minute of my time just to explain where I attacked her. My time, please, if you make an exception. Tell me where I attacked her. I really want to apologize. But if that's not possible, then you're "sufficient." What's true now? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Replica, Mrs. Bojana Muršič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u182	Yes, so the fine lady came back, as you mentioned earlier, and I was a little late to replicate. I very much agree and thank you for wanting to give me a minute of your time, but I have three minutes completely enough. The question was when did you attack me? Now, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you know, and you who know everything, and I also told you at the beginning of my discussion that I write certain things and I have them on record. So if you guys were to write these things down, you'd know when you attacked me and I couldn't defend myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u183	Thank you very much. The word has a government representative, Mr. Bostian, doesn't it? Okay. Then Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u184	Thank you very much! Look, this was now a typical example of this -- because I don't know what to call it -- they call it "flashing." Now that you won't be offended, but if you had anything to say that I attacked you with words, insults or anything, I say three times a day, excuse me. I don't have a problem with that. I'll apologize to you, too, publicly, for the camera. But look, now you're saying I attacked you so you couldn't defend yourself. Come on! So let's be serious. I mean, you have to be serious because you're the vice president! See, we've also heard similar flossules from all many others. An attack on Muslims. Yeah, who attacked the Muslims? Who? Then we heard it was some medieval practice. Yes, this month in the Swiss canton, on T is called, down there against Italy, passed the same law. Is that also medieval in Switzerland? They said 9,000 euros in fines, two figures were published, six and nine thousand, I don't know what's right. And we have 100 euros. Is that medieval then, too, or what? Is it medieval what's in France? Don't hold what Mr. Zorčič said. Is it medieval in Italy? Is Medieval also down there in Africa? I've already counted it for you. It's not, is it? For me, it's a flossule, and you have to have an argument. You must have arguments. You all said there's no danger, and that's why we're not gonna do it. Yeah, and I say what we're waiting for. I had previously listed two cases from Africa from the Muslim countries that had accepted this — the ban on burks. But they accepted it when it broke. You joked there from a fellow Lach, yes, it happened that they were dressed in burks, but in fact there were men downstairs, hidden men who were terrorists. Yeah, what were they? Boko Haram. I don't know where you guarantee that this can't be done in Ljubljana or Slovenia? I don't know where your guarantee is. But good. To conclude, let me say the following. Our purpose was clear. Very clear. To act before something happens: a) security aspect and b) cultural historical aspect. Anyone who comes into this country – and to me, the assimilations that you've been talking about – may have been as clear as you, given that I'm older than you, probably have been, at least I suppose – but look, no one will convince me that I as the owner of the house have the right to ask you, anyone, to ask for how he will behave in my house, or not a desired guest. And if we transfer it now to Europe or transfer it to Slovenia to anything, the analogy here is exactly the same, there is no other story. We who have lived here for centuries, and those who have joined us for the last 50, 60 years or so, have joined us those who are closer to us than those who are from somewhere else, from some rather different world, we have the right, not only the right, we have the duty to maintain our house as it is and to tell them that they are welcome, that we can also help them, provided they behave as we do. Because otherwise – if I go back to the house – if I let ten people into my house, they will tell me that I can just sit on the toilet or I will say I'm lying in one corner and they'll change the house in their own way, it's unacceptable. And if we transfer this to the country now, let's leave a few ten now, it's so expensive, in 50 years we're reading statistics about what's going to happen in Europe, what's going to happen in Slovenia. And if we let that happen, I don't think we can, but we have to set up the cultural and all the other things, so that those of us who came to us, who didn't invite them, respected them, or went somewhere else. That's all it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u185	Thank you very much. There's no replica after the final word, but I'll give you a time-sharing, Dr. Matić. Because we have some time left, as I said, if anyone else wants to discuss it, please apply. Dr. Dragan Matić, please. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I'm sorry, there's more interest. I'm asking you to sign up. Here you go, Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u186	Thank you for your word. Now, I don't know, I have to pick up because he says he checked in, and the device didn't detect it. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Matić, just calm down. I've got five minutes to say what I mean. Time can go perfectly normal. Once again, I really urge all Members and Members to consider this bill. There is no vote today. It is not until tomorrow that we have a vote on the agenda and it is time for you to think about your views. I hope that this decision of yours is not just about us being proponents of the Slovenian Democratic Party. I stress, it's a security and cultural aspect. Security and cultural aspects. Security – no longer has to be emphasized. I think it's clear here what's going on around us. What's going on around us? And our citizens and citizens are also very well aware of this. Finally, after events in France, many of their profiles on social networks were painted in the French flag. This is also how they expressed support. And once again, the law does not attack Muslims in any way. That's not true. That's not true. Even in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, there have been discussions about whether or not they are removing burqa and niqab, as many believe that this is not the time we live in, as there is no suitable stone for women, and there is still time for them. Previously, we've heard that somehow when we want someone to accept our customs, our customs, and that they don't impose their customs on another culture where they just don't belong, that's what everyone can tell you, say that we travel in the Middle Ages. And I'm asking you if you don't mind us dropping the middle ages and letting them go in this room, because you can't say that it's something that's advanced. Do you think this is part of modern society? That's not true. This has absolutely nothing to do with modern society, and it allows us to agree in some way with others, their ways of life and the measures I spoke about earlier, including stone. Last but not least, these women are still fighting for election rights. Do you know what's going on? We're a security measure, in short, I hope we're done. The story that men were wearing under these covers also tells a lot. He talks a lot. And the fact that we have only individuals who are here on vacation in Slovenia right now is not true. That's not true. I'm meeting you people, and believe me, I'm not making this up. I meet them in the centers where the cameras are. What kind of review is this if something happens? Who's under these covers, tell me? Who's under these covers? It's about security. I was talking about the problems of banks, schools, I was talking about a girl who lives in Slovenia, and she said why. In short, don't get carried away, because it doesn't benefit anyone but at least our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u187	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Ange Logar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u188	Thank you, Chairman. I have listened with interest to today's debate, and I cannot help but feel that the branches of coalition species are of some very shortsightedness or ignorance depending on the actual situation. Now you're saying, one of the reasons why against the ban on wearing burks and nicobs was that there were so few of them anyway that it was no threat. Look, if you have a toothache, what you're gonna say, oh, because it's only one of the 32nd, if you have a wise one, I'll wait for the whole lower jaw to hurt before I go to the dentist or whatever. Perhaps, if you look at pictures of Paris or Brussels or any other city, the case of Iran was previously shown and compared with today’s paintings, there is a different picture. And it probably wouldn't be a ban today if there was another culture before that. But in those countries they felt a commitment precisely because of security threats, precisely because of the consequences of this multicultural culture of incompatible cultures in one city. Look, the forerunner was talking about some clothes order for us to introduce them. The dress code is a burka or niab in Saudi Arabia. So colleague Matić said today that Saudi Arabia lives in the Middle Ages because it has a dress code for women to wear burqa and niqaba. Not with us, but with us, everyone can dress as they please. My colleague Popot can be in green, and he can be without. So also colleague Matić can come in live screaming or in tight pants, but no one will get upset about it, but if Dragan Matić comes in disguise and claims to be a woman at the polls, and we'll probably be slightly different, we'll be facing a slightly different problem. It would be a criminal act to force them into burks. Saudi Arabia has a mandatory burka, but I did not hear that colleague Matić would send a protest note as a member of the Republic of Slovenia to Saudi Arabia. And the fact that someone cannot wear a burka in public space at home can, on the toilet, not be forced to wear clothes, but it is quite the opposite, is allowing, I will say, European cultural heritage also in the security risk area. See the example of Turkey, Turkey has been strongly Islamised over the past few years. I've been to the Turkey elections, and a whole bunch of ladies in burks and nikiks have stopped to vote. Do you know how they voted? They just gave it to me personally. Nobody looked under the covers. There were such little girls, I said, five years old, and apparently they have electoral rights. And not to say that a burka is a clear dress that spoils, is not true, the burka and nicobs cover up, and as such, they pose a security threat. Let me just warn you, the richest Italian province of Lombardy adopted a ban on wearing burks and nicobs a week ago, the richest province in Italy. So this is clearly the most backward province in Italy, according to the coalition. In January, they adopted a ban on the construction of moshes. January. Why? Explanation: due to serious safety risks. But here you are selling that this has absolutely nothing to do with security issues. And the sad thing about the whole story is that this shortsightedness is once again the story that we have with this coalition. Look, on September 27th, Miro Cerar said we don't need a fence in Slovenia. What do we have today? It's a barbed wire. In the 21st century, we have a barbed wire. If we started building a fence like the Hungarians back then, we'd have a normal fence, a cultural fence, not a barbed wire. And the same problem is here.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u190	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Nice greeting to all of you in my name, too! I myself have listened carefully to the entire afternoon debate on this proposal proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party. You know, someone called me an hour ago, a friend of mine, and asked me if the marriage was so ready that the Slovenes would have to wear overcoats. And I asked him why, but his answer or question was because such a response was negative by the coalition. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if there were little more Slovenian roots in this House, and there was more concern for the future of Slovenia, this banal law would go through the polls tomorrow. And I think maybe some Member would be against it, but it would go through with it. We've been talking about this all afternoon, even one of them was smiling, making fun of it. My friend Dr. Horvath would even say we're wandering around with this law in the dark. I will probably be that Member of the Slovenian Democratic Party, who will be the last to say that this coalition is incompetent. I don't know why. But when I start saying it, I'm gonna say it every day. Look, we were talking about a fence that needs to be set up. We were anxious, we wanted to be liked, we didn't know, a lot of ridicule. This fence, which is being built today, is certainly necessary, just not one. If this fence were standing around a garden, this garden would certainly be funny. Now I'm talking because you're making fun of us and you don't believe that we want to be positive with this law. We have warned in the field of health, do not appoint a former acting president of this important institution. We were excruciating again, strangers. Where do you have it today? For five months we warn you to give the average to the municipalities, the ones that are failing. For the first time in the history of the Republic of Slovenia it happened that some government went, either left or right, to which region to visit, that the mayors hid for shame. Well, you didn't believe it. In short, many proposals, many laws, and I will not claim that all laws were the best, there were also such laws if there were little will and little listening, less fooling, and more worrying about the Republic of Slovenia, there would be no such problems in the Republic of Slovenia today. Today, there are police officers, doctors, municipalities, culturers and the kind of attitude we have towards foreigners and the attitude we have towards citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. When the first migrants crossed the border, we were crying a lot, wondering if they were cold, if they were hungry, if they had full phones, if they needed computers. But when we went to build fences overnight in the Republic of Slovenia, we didn't even allow our citizens to ask why this fence could be a little left and right. In short, let us open our eyes once and work for the well-being of this country for which we have also been elected. Of course, we're all responsible for the future here. However, I would not like someone to mention to me in five years that I was a Member in that mandate when the Republic of Slovenia was finally imported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Dr. Dragan Matić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u192	Thank you for your word. I would just like to continue where Mr Gorenak continued to develop the thesis that it has now been tested that a burka or a related carrier is particularly ready for terrorist attacks. However, of course, Mr Gorenak pretends that we live in the same country as Boko Haram discovered this attack. Of course, the difference is crucial. There is this national costume or fashion as common as that of women. There's either a burka or there's no such thing as an attraction. I haven't seen her in Slovenia yet, but I've heard from someone who seemed to know someone who saw her. So I think, for hair drawn arguments, you know, how this is some terrible danger for the Republic of Slovenia, I'm sorry, gentlemen, I really don't know if you're comical or more absurd in these grounds of security. As for the cultural aspect, however, I merely stressed that limiting or prescribing clothing is a matter of some other times, not at 21. A century. If some countries have banned the wearing of blankets covering the entire head together with the face from safety, this was a principled approach in terms of security, from which individual exceptions were then established, this has been nicely said several times today. Nikab or the burka was not directly apostrophed in France, but I do not know how it was now in Lombardia or Ticin, but I did not follow these matters in detail, but it seems to me that this is not a European standard. Most European countries, the countries of the European Union do not know this. What you are now mentioning, these two, three cases, is simply not something our country would follow and is not in our cultural habit or not in debt anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Simon Zajc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u194	Thank you, Chairman. In my debate, I would refer to two points, which were also exposed, why this ban should even be enforced. The first is a security aspect, and I think I've also heard today that Niab and the burqa are making it difficult to identify. Now, given that I've studied this too and that I've been working from this topic even undergraduate degrees, about the errors that arise in the recognition process itself, I can say that just by covering your hair or not seeing your hair, the cover is reduced by more than 50% of the recognition option, I think it's even 70%, but it's already so far back that I don't remember the exact percentage. Then, if you add any more sunglasses, jokes or anything like that, you've done more than enough for recognition. So this security aspect of being unrecognizable is an unrecognizable recognition, but that can't be the reason to ban it, because with all the allowed clothes and coverings in the Western world, you're doing the same thing, and you're not doing the same thing in this society at the same time. Then, of course, this security aspect of getting explosives and guns or guns, whatever, is called a gun, can't be a reason enough, because you can do the same under one gun, under a raincoat. Again, if you're dressed like that and want to attack us, you'd better use the clothes we own. So also for this reason, I cannot see and support the security aspect. If we're going to buy that somewhere they did attack dressed in burks or nikabs, then we have to look at the fact that September 11th happened by just shaving, no one had a beard, they gave themselves glasses, just Western clothes. Are we going to ban glasses, regular, corrective? Are we going to ban Western clothes because they carried out such a powerful terrorist attack? I think that this security aspect must also be seen from this point of view, and it seems entirely unfounded to me that on this basis we are demanding a ban on this. From this we can only come to the point that this is from a cultural point of view, which the proposer also proposes or makes clear. Now, here we ask ourselves, do we want to be such as to be impatient with a religious group? Because it's basically an intolerance. I'm an atheist myself. I don't really support organized forms of belief. I think it's just one way to control people, control how they think, but who wants to be, and I think it's okay to let them be involved in some organized form of belief. If this organised form of belief requires him to cover himself, he agrees, I think it is his right and should remain. And this security aspect doesn't just justify banning it. At the same time, I think we need to leave this cultural openness and not be impatient with those who believe in a different or other god and who are dressed differently for it. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u196	Thank you very much! Look, Mr. Zajc, why do you associate this with faith? Where do you see anything to do with this? She's not here, is she? So who is oppressing that faith? But, well, look, let's drop this thing. You know, if you've been in the opposition a little longer, you're used to everything, especially new faces, it's always going to be, every four years, it's now three years, and I don't know what it's going to be like, and I'm used to some of the same reactions that just come from the same, not the same, but the same, thinking people who just change after this House. I just have a lot of experience with this because I don't know which year ago I was talking about how wrong it was to hire an NPU. No, everything was fine – it turned out that I was right, not the majority that kept the minister. When we talked about the month of September that for God's sake already give the fences to do – no, but the fences will not do, ugly Orban, the barbarian Orban, I don't know what he was, not only on your part, but also on the part of Europe was the same attitude towards him, Juncker slapping him because you noticed what was going on. Look, they're applauding him in the middle of Munich today. And if you — yes, of course, at the CSU Congress, how — and if you had respected that earlier, we would not have these problems today. The same is true of the law we discussed today, namely, the ban on wearing burks and nicobs. Same story. Of course, it doesn't say that there's going to be some kind of terrorist attack by someone wearing these clothes that doesn't say anything, but in the world, we have cases like this. I figured out where we got 'em. And now you're talking, everyone in a row, about some impatience, this one, that one. Wait a minute, are the French impatient? Yeah, but maybe they're a little small because they don't already know how much 30% or how many. Maybe. Are the Belgians impatient, are the Dutch impatient, or are the Swiss in that canton impatient, or are they stupid? What are they? I don't know what they're made of. I don't think they're any of this, but they're mostly cautious. And they are taking some measures in time to avoid major problems. That's all this is about. What's left of me, I'll say it, but it's the next thing, and I said it before, and I'll say it again. You know, the situation is relatively clear. This nation, so Slovenian people, if you want, the people of Slovenia, if you want us not to start any nationalism, I will tell the inhabitants, the people of Slovenia are on the right track to disappear. Not today, not tomorrow, not in five years, not in ten years, but the statistics are clear. You can see that in 2080, according to some data, the majority of the population of Germany will be Muslim, probably Slovenia. Probably Slovenia, too. And that is why our generation now responsible for the situation should take steps to ensure that this will not happen, as this nation is called to live on. But it's not about being impatient with other people, it's simply about us who have lived here for a thousand years. And we must love ourselves, and we must respect ourselves, and we must respect our history. All those who will come to us uninvited or invited, because we will also have to invite them, because otherwise pensions will not last, gentlemen in Desus, because that is natural, it is not a problem. We're gonna have to do this. But this is the situation, and let them behave as the millennium is done by the nation that lives in this space. If anyone disagrees with this, he can go anywhere else. The earth's surface is very large. But it is our responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, that we today adopt such legislation that we today take such measures that in 2050 Slovenia will still be Slovenia, that there will be no Caliphate. But in history, we will be responsible for our decisions. I'd be happy to look at this history if I walked the world then, probably not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-12-17-SDZ7-Redna-14.ana.u197	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to decide that the draft law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, tomorrow, 18 December, in the framework of the votes. I'm breaking the 10th item of the agenda. I am also adjourning the 14th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 10 a.m. tomorrow. Thank you very much.
