ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the 10th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Tanja Zink, Mrs Eva Irgl, Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker, Mr Roberto Battelli, Mr Danilo Anton Ranc by 4 p.m., Mr Ivan Škodnik by 2 p.m., mag. Matthew Tonin by 14:00 and Dr. Lázsló Göncz by 13:00. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 2. Agenda item — Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Inventory by Emergency Procedure. With regard to this point, two draft laws were tabled in the legislative procedure, namely the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Income Act following the reduced procedure, EPA 543 /7, submitted to the National Assembly by 5 thousand electors and voters, and the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Income by Emergency Procedure, EPA 574 /7, of which the Government is the proposer. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy decided in its debate on those draft laws to deal with them in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 117 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. At the same time, he decided that the follow-up procedure in accordance with Article 127 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly would be guided by a proposal for a law submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 117(4) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I give the floor to the applicants of both proposals for supplementary explanations. I give the floor first to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance mag. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u2	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the basis of the two proposed amendments to the Income Laws, one was tabled by a group of electors and voters, the other Government, and before you a proposal for a law that brings together the two starting points of the proposal in a single proposal. The basic purpose of the amended proposal is to harmonise Slovenian legislation on taxation of the income of natural persons with the requirements of European law in several areas. Firstly, the amendment of Article 26 of the Income Act aligns the list of direct payments in the field of agriculture which are exempt from income payments with the amendments introduced in this regard by the European legislation of the new financial perspective. Secondly, the presumption of non-compliance between the Slovenian Law on Income and European Law and non-resident students is eliminated. Thirdly, the alleged non-compliance between the Slovenian Income Law and European legislation is eliminated and it recognises a specific condition for the exemption of the payment of income on the sale of a residential apartment where the seller is a foreigner. As a result of the rules in other areas, these persons cannot obtain permanent residence permits immediately upon their relocation to Slovenia and are therefore a condition for them to be entitled to exempt income payments for the sale of a residence apartment only if they have had a registered permanent residence at that address for at least three years, constitutes a discriminatory condition which is unacceptable under European law. It also takes into account the proposal of a group of electorates and electorates, in the amended draft law, Article 47 of the Income Act and repeals the mandatory management of books for farmers whose average total income in the two consecutive years of all members of the farm household in the basic and agricultural activities exceeds EUR 7 000 500. This allows anyone to decide on a voluntary basis how to record the income and expenditure of basic agricultural and forestry activities. In order to prevent potential abuses, a condition is added that only a farmer who is also a VAT and book-keeper is allowed to manage the book-keeping process in any event. This is an administrative simplification which is so important in terms of farmers that it is the view of the applicants that it is permissible to derogate from the principle of equal treatment of the debtors in the same income situation. However, this change will not have a significant impact on the extent of the benefits collected from agricultural and forestry activities. Taking all of this into account, the Government proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal be supported by law, both in the second and third readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u3	I also give the floor to the representative of the 5,000 electorates and voters, Mr Cvetko Zupančič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u4	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President. Dear Members and Members of the Government! At the Agricultural Forestry Chamber, we deal daily with the problems of people living in rural areas, especially those working in agriculture. Given that we are an organisation that is democratically striving to create conditions for farming and measures to support them and in various ways trying to remove restrictions, we are even more striving to avoid restrictions at all. Therefore, we often point to solutions that, in our view, are inadequate, inappropriate or even contrary to the objectives. It is therefore very important for us to cooperate, partnership with the organisations and authorities of the country, where we believe that, through the right agreement, the most can be achieved for agricultural, rural and wider development. Therefore, today you are also considering changes to the law resulting from problems, inconsistencies and administrative difficulties, on the one hand, and changes to the common agricultural policy measures for the 2014-2020 programming period, on the other hand. On the initiative of a number of farmers who, at various occasions, pointed out the inadequacy of a solution to mandatory accounting in the field of agriculture, we have decided to submit a legislative initiative with the support of the electorate, which removes the threshold for mandatory bookkeeping. Another important content we have addressed is the exemption of the so-called green component from direct payments from taxation. We have also proposed to exempt payments for the start-up of young farmers' activities from taxation, as we believe that the rural development programme 2014-2020 sets out the content of the business plan and thus limits to the use of the money that young farmers acquire. Young farmers should not spend money on anything but on developing their own farm. We believe that it would be important to make use of the relief for all the content of the business plan, which is linked to investment in complementary activities as well as other costs related to the transfer of the farm We are pleased that the proposed amendments have come to the continuation of the consideration as a complement to the proposal for amendments to the law proposed by the Government, and we expect their changes and therefore an important contribution to the further development of agriculture and rural areas. At the Agricultural Forestry Chamber, we thank all those who have given their signature to support changes in the law as well as all others who have supported the proposed solutions. At the Agricultural Forestry Chamber, we expect that the country will, in principle, provide a more encouraging and more favourable legislative environment for agriculture and that such actions will not often have to be repeated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u5	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Tiln Bozic, Vice-President.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 11th regular session on 23. 6. In 2015, he considered two proposals for amendments to the Income Act, namely the ZDoh-2P proposal submitted to the National Assembly by a group of 5,000 voters and the ZDoh-2R proposal submitted by the Government. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, the State Council, the Agricultural Forestry Chambers of Slovenia and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meeting. We have received an opinion on each of the proposals from the Legal and Legislative Services, and the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on Economic Affairs, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, and on the proposal of the ZDoh-2P, as well as the opinion of the Government. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Committee first decided that the proposed amendment would be considered under the same agenda item and then presented the purpose and content of each of the proposed amendments. As part of the presentation of the proposal ZDoh-2P, the President of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia initially explained the effects of the current provisions of the Income Act, on the basis of which a farmer with more than €7 million of income from basic agricultural and forestry activities had to start managing compulsory accounting. Due to a gradual change in the calculation of income during the transitional period, the mandatory bookkeeping was to be maintained in 2014 by around 1,000 300 farms and in 2015 by an additional 172. According to his assessment, due to the termination of the temporary scheme in 2016, accounting should be maintained further by around 3 000 more farms. He further explained that, in practice, this means a considerable administrative burden and additional costs of accounting services for farmers. He noted that the proposal submitted by the signatures of 5,000 voters and voters differs mainly from the government proposal in the abolition of mandatory farm accounting. In the context of the presentation of concrete solutions to the proposal, he pointed out that, in addition to the abolition of the entry threshold for the compulsory identification of income from basic agricultural and forestry activities on the basis of actual revenues and actual or standardised expenditure, it also provided for the addition of a list of income exemptions for basic agricultural and basic forestry activities in order to take account of the novelties of the rural development programme 2014-2020. As President of the Commission of the National Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, he also stressed that the ZDoh-2P Commission supports but does not support the government proposal ZDoh-2R. In the introductory addendum to the Government proposal, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance presented the following key solutions. Amendment in the case of cadastral income taxation where the list of non-taxable agricultural policy measures is updated. In her view, there are no significant differences between the proposed P and R novels in this segment. Then the amendment aimed at preventing tax evasion in cases where the taxpayers are moving from the flat-rate system of taxation to the tax system on the basis of actual revenues and expenditure, and vice versa. Finally, the elimination of the distinction between non-residents and residents in the case of the imposition of an exemption in relation to the sale of a residential apartment or residence, as well as the equivalence in the area of the possibility of the application of student relief. Foreign students are still unable to apply under the existing law. The Committee further decided on the basis of which of the proposed laws it would draw up a complementary proposal for a law and decided to do so on the basis of a government proposal. It followed a discussion and a decision on whether to include one of the ZDoh-2P articles in the ZDoh-2R and decided to include the third article in the last proposal in the first as a new Article 1.a. The Committee's amendments to the ZDoh-2R amendment were tabled at the meeting, which was also adopted by the Committee after the discussion. Furthermore, in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. The Committee also adopted further conclusions for the ZDoh-2R, i.e. for a government proposal for a law, proposing to be placed on the agenda of the 10th plenary meeting of the National Assembly, and concluded the legislative procedure relating to the ZDoh-2P proposal by identifying it as unfit for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u7	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u8	Thank you for your words and your warm greetings to everyone on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group, in which we support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act in the form it was designed by the mother's working body. In fact, only the initiative was put forward by a group of voters to amend the law, on which the Agricultural Forestry Chambers also sought to end the mandatory management of business books for farms and household farmers, and at the same time tabled a proposal for amendments to the law also by the Government, and on the basis of the cooperation of all involved, a compromise which, of course, we support in the Group of Social Democrats. We stress, however, that to a large extent the will of the electorate is taken into account, the obligation to enter into the management of the business ledgers for income is reduced, while, of course, there will be no abuse when the debtor, for example, voluntarily enters the VAT system and thus deducts tax costs, and for the purposes of income, the books would not lead and pay only flat-rate taxes. And within this was the text of the law, which I have already mentioned in the introduction, which we support in the Group of Social Democrats. Let me also say that the Social Democrats do not support a solution that eliminates or reduces excessive administrative burdens. Speaking of farms and households, this is all the more welcome. So the very direction of this law is correct, so we will support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u9	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u10	Thank you for saying a nice hello to everyone! As the United Left Group said at the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy meeting at the end of June, we will support the proposed amendments to the Income Act, including all the supplements adopted on the home labour body. First of all, we welcome those parts of the amendments to the law that go towards greater movement of persons and workers or greater movement of people in the European Union. This is, for example, a change that enables nationals of other countries to meet or facilitate the conditions for exempting taxation from the sale of their principal residence, or that gives students the right to a general tax exemption to work through a student service. We support these changes and there has been a lot of talk in recent months about what Europe is, what it is not and what it should be. It is certain that Europe should not be just a place of free movement of goods, services and capital, in which some try to make it. Above all, in our view, it is people who must be given free movement and life anywhere in Europe under the same conditions, regardless of what is written under their citizenship and country of birth in their passports. And since we are currently witnessing the migration crisis, this should apply to the people of the countries of the European Union as well as to those who want to do so and must, in order to achieve their goal, humiliate and risk their lives. Europe should become an opportunity of a decent life for all people who do not get these opportunities in their home countries, even partly because of Europe's fault. At the same time, we support the proposed amendments to the law that touch on the administrative burden of farmers. These changes seem meaningful to us, especially in the light of rural development, rural survival relief, the growing regional differences that unfortunately we have, the decline in self-sustainment and so on. The proposed compromise in the law seems good, so we will fully support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u11	The New Slovenian-Christian Democrats' Group has the floor for it, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all, colleagues and colleagues, secretary of state and representative of the 5,000 electorates and voters, Mr. Cvetko Zupančić! First of all, I would like to say that New Slovenia sincerely and highly appreciates the efforts made by the 5,000 voters and voters who have proposed to the National Assembly the amendment of the Income Law, and then the Government has responded to this, and we are confident that we have reached a compromise on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and have adopted a bill that will also satisfy the 5,000 voters and, of course, also all those who are being Tanzaniad by this amendment. Today's amendment to the Income Act affects the area of farmers' income payments or, rather, the exemption of income payments for new measures in the field of the European Union's common agricultural policy in the period 2015-2020. This is a proposal for a law which means that the tax rules are aligned with European Union legislation. The proposal for a law regulates tax exemption for those payments to farmers from the new financial perspective, where the exemption is already provided for by European regulations, and which, due to the specific internal arrangements of each country's tax areas, must also be implemented into domestic legislation. The new rules of the European Union's common agricultural policy bring some new types of payments, support for agricultural crop quality schemes, payments for organic farming and payments for the environment and the climate for favourable production, i.e. the so-called COP and COPP payments. Income payments will also be exempt from all compensation and cash assistance paid for natural and other accidents and damage caused by wild animals. The exemption from the payment of income for long-term investments in farms, including investment transfers, afforestation investments and start-up payments for young farmers, is further maintained. The necessary regulation of this area has already been pointed out by the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, which, with the support of 5,000 voters and voters, has recently submitted to the parliamentary procedure a proposal for a new Law on Income, which in these areas regulates practically the same material. Farm taxation has a significant impact on their economic situation. In particular, this applies to taxation with direct taxes, including income. The European Community, which devotes much of the European Union's resources to agriculture and agricultural policy, is certainly aware of this, but must not be taxed if they are to actually encourage farmers. The common agricultural policy of the European Union, through its actions and payments, follows the financial perspective 2015-2020 in addition to the objective of the maximum share of organic production, also protecting farms with less favourable conditions of production and farming in an environmentally and climate-friendly manner. As part of the European Union, Slovenia must respect the objectives of the European Union's common agricultural policy and, as has already been said, achieve them through tax legislation. In doing so, let me stress that the situation of most Slovenian farmers is further hampered by the small and fragmented properties, as well as by the various and numerous natural disasters that farms face in almost every year, which lasts in northeastern Slovenia. The proposed law brings solutions and solutions in support of Slovenian agriculture and agriculture and Members of the New Slovenia Group. Christian Democrats will therefore be supported by the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u13	The word shall be given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Vojka Shergan for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Secretary-General with co-worker and representatives of the Agricultural Forestry Institute, colleague and colleague! Today we are discussing the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act prepared by the Government and the solutions that have been drawn up in the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act, prepared by 5,000 voters and voters. By means of legal solutions, they wanted to supplement the list of income exemptions for basic agricultural and basic forestry activities in order to take account of the innovations of the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020. The government has made sense of this solution in section 26 of the Act. Also, the proposal to resolve this law, as well as the 5,000 voters and voters, has made sense of the Government's law. Thus, the entry threshold for the mandatory identification of income from basic agricultural and basic forestry activities is abolished on the basis of actual income and actual or standardised expenditure. The current threshold of €7 000 500 of income from basic agricultural and basic forestry activities is very low, and household farmers not comparable to the size of farms to keep books in other European countries are captured among the bonds. In doing so, it should be pointed out that rural households have an additional administrative burden and costs to keep their accounts or records for tax purposes. For this reason, the proposed solutions are reasonably summarised in the Government's Income Act. This removes the obligation to keep books on larger farms. The government law also lays down an additional condition for voluntary entry into the management of books, so that only farm households can benefit from this option, which account for value added tax for their basic agricultural and basic forestry activities. Where the decisions of Article 3 of this Law have been summarised in the form of Article 1a, the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre will vote in favour of the decision. The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act, the reduced procedure, the proposer of a group of 5,000 voters and voters, is not suitable for further consideration. However, the parliamentary group will support the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act prepared by the Government. This law, in addition to the essential solutions set out in the law of electorates and voters, contains solutions to amend the second paragraph of Article 39 of the Income Act, which, more generally for all possible cases of transition between different ways of determining income, regulates a tax rule in accordance with which each income and expenditure is taken into account only once. The Act also provides for amendments to Article 116 of the Income Act by establishing a concession for residents of the Member States of the European Union and of the European Economic Area who achieve at least 90 % of the active income in Slovenia, by including special personal allowances as laid down in Article 113(3) of the Law on Income from Student Work. As it is said, the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will support the Proposal for a Income Act prepared by the Government. The law contains the most important solutions to abolishing the management of the books of the law of 5,000 electorates and electorates. For this reason, we will also vote in favour of the conclusion that the law of the electorate and the electorate is not suitable for further application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u15	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished representatives of five thousand voters and electorates, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support all solutions that mean simpler business, which constitute less obstacles to business, especially less bureaucratic barriers, and of course those that allow greater productivity and greater competitiveness. One such rule is the amendment of the Income Act relating to the taxation of farmers. We believe that this will make farmers easier to operate and, of course, they will also be more competitive not only in Slovenia but also in the European market. We are also pleased that there has been a merger of two legal provisions, namely the law proposed by 5,000 voters and voters, and the law proposed by the Government. We believe that this is also a reflection of reciprocity and cooperation. In the Slovenian Democratic Party about a year ago, we stressed that we will support all solutions that mean improving business, which are meaningful and which means increasing competitiveness. These solutions are in this law and thus relate to tax accounting, so they relate to incentives, especially for young people, and we have an amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party in order to make this more precise. I assume that this amendment will also be adopted. In particular, it refers to the start of the management of agricultural activities, especially of young people, and we believe that this amendment specifies more precisely and more precisely the exemption for young people as well. We also support all those provisions that actually mean only one single taxation of agricultural activities, and of course also provisions that mean that investment activity in agriculture is not taxed. Unfortunately, in the past we have witnessed a number of provisions of the Income Act, which taxed investment itself. Agricultural activity must be aligned with economic activity and the law goes in this direction, of course, on the basis of guidelines or directives of the European Union. For these reasons, we will support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u17	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u18	Dear Mr President, Madam Secretary, the distinguished representative of the electorate and the electorate! Allow me also to present the position of the Desus Group on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Act. Two legislative proposals were tabled at the same time in the procedural legislative procedure, namely a proposal drawn up at the Ministry of Finance and a proposal tabled by voters and voters on the initiative of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia. Since this is a substantively identical proposal, it has been established, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that a government proposal is considered as a starting point. In fact, it is a so-called hybrid law, which is also harmonised after the completion of the treatment on the parent’s working body. The text of the current law needs to be amended due to the new rural development programme. This was also the main purpose of both proposals, which we support in the Desus Group. The list of expenditure related to agricultural and forestry activities exempt from income payments has been updated accordingly. In addition, payments such as for the green component or organic farming were included. Based on the comparison of the two proposals, the only difference initially seemed to be the change in the current Article 26 of the Income Act. The content of the article was inter-sectorally harmonised prior to the examination at the meeting of the parent working body. It was agreed that no aid should be granted to start the activities of young farmers, as originally proposed by a group of voters and voters, among investment aids which are exempt from income. The latter is already exempt from income in the applicable income legislation, so we do not see the need for additional exemption in the Desus Group. It was more complicated with the content of the Article, which provides for mandatory accounting for farmers. With the adoption of the amendment of the coalition, a compromise proposal was agreed at the meeting of the competent committee to delete the obligation to keep books on larger farms and to lay down an additional condition of voluntaryness only for those households which account for value added tax for their activities. In the Desus Group we welcome such a decision because we are advocates of reducing financial and administrative burdens, especially for small farms. The abolition of mandatory accounting was a promise made earlier in the previous amendment and therefore the appropriate arrangements are more than necessary. On the other hand, we believe that it is right that there is still an equal position for all taxpayers, irrespective of the activity they are engaged in. Since the entire text of the amendments has been properly redrafted, we have no comments on it, so we will support the proposed amendment in the Desus Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u19	We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u20	Dear President, thank you very much for your word. Honourable Secretary of State, Director and President of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber, colleagues and colleagues! Today, when we talk about this Income Act, there may be little for some of us, and for me and our Group of Members there is great evidence that when we get a signal from the wider Republic of Slovenia, in this case people living in rural areas and working in agriculture, and when we all see together, those who have problems, the Agricultural Forestry Chamber, the Government, the esteemed Members and Members, that there is a problem and if we want to, we can solve this problem. That's, I think, a good signal for the other laws we're preparing. It is also pleased to note, as the Secretary of State said, that this change does not have any major financial implications. The law we are talking about is certainly for the faster and easier development of our countryside. Of course, our rural areas depend on farms in Slovenia. It's sad to see you in a mountain area when a farm is growing. Of course, in this law, and in particular the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we also touch on young entrepreneurs, especially young people, who will live and work on these farms. I sincerely want this law, including the amendment, to be supported for the benefit of the Slovenian countryside, Slovenian agriculture and as a consequence of European agriculture. Once again, I welcome the efforts of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber, all those who have signed themselves, the Governments, the Ministry of Finance and of course all of you in the Chamber, the honourable Members and Members, so that when we vote, we will allow for faster and easier development of our beautiful Slovenian countryside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u21	Mrs. Vojka Shergan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u22	Exemptions must be in order to exempt income doses from payments intended to cover income losses or investment aid. It is correct that the investments made under these measures are for young entrepreneurs to start up activities, but they must be focused on long-term investments, on basic agricultural activity or on forestry activity. This is the only way to achieve the long-term goal of increased self-sustainment in agriculture with domestically produced food and organically grown food. However, your amendment would allow anyone who took over the farms to be forgiven, so if only they took over the farms and did not invest and have these investment investments. I do not think that this would achieve the objective of agricultural development, and it would be contrary to some economic logic at the end of the day, because only investments contribute to better development of the Slovenian countryside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u23	Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! I am very pleased with this opportunity when we adopt the Income Act, because we see here that it is possible to achieve such legal solutions that unite, connect and when they find common nominees on two levels, i.e. at the widest possible area of Slovenia where, I believe, this compromise proposal is satisfied both with the representatives of the 5,000 signatories to the amendment of the bill as well as the Government which, in the final stage, put this law before us, as of course, all political groups in this House. So, if it's all will, it's knowledge and power. We have already said in the introduction, in the Desus Group we support the proposal of this so-called, final phase of the hybrid law, because the applicable Income Law in some way must also be harmonised or homogeneous with the agricultural rules applicable in our country already this year, such as the Rural Development Programme. Of course, it is also necessary to harmonise European Union legislation, in particular with the provisions on the free movement of persons and workers. We know that Europe is not only a free movement of goods, services and capital, but also of labour, residents and people, and the right to set up, because of discriminatory taxation of capital profits from the sale of the main residence and because of the lack of special relief for residents of EU Member States with the status of students and students who achieve the bulk of the taxable income in Slovenia. As it is said, the position of our Group is that the law will support, not least in this law we see the elimination of many financial and, of course, administrative burdens, which is essential for the functioning of the agricultural sector. With this, I believe that the greater competitiveness of our agriculture will also be achieved in the widest possible space, and thus the better tomorrow of agricultural life, which is in any way consistent with our programming guidelines. In one word, we support the law in Desus. We believe that the implementation of this regulation will have positive effects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u25	The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance mag has the floor. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Allow me to define myself for the proposed amendment. The proposed amendment extends the content of Article 26 in two or two points. First of all, it is proposed to exempt income payments from long-term investments in respect of agricultural and forestry activities which are determined by the tax base in accordance with Articles 3, 4, 6 and 7 of Article 48. To put it simply, it is a long-term investment in those farms where they decide to keep a record of their business by identifying actual revenues and standardised expenditure. In the second part, the proposed amendment refers to payments for the start-up of young farmers. First of all, as regards the first part of the proposed amendment, the applicant will overlook that there have been significant changes in the simplified calculation of income in 2012, i.e. in cases where expenditure is identified from this activity as standard expenditure, namely, that revenue is no longer determined after the paid realization, but that revenue is determined on the basis of the calculated realization. This means that the general accounting standards that allow for a time-limit for the depreciation period in relation to long-term investments are respected. As a result of this change, the actual exemption, which was already in force under Article 26 of the Law, is no longer appropriate. In the second part, when we are talking about the payment for the start-up of young farmers' activities, it is necessary to take into account the content of the payments that young farmers receive to take over the farm. If, according to the content of these payments, they represent long-term investments, payments of income are already exempt under the general provision of Article 26 of the Income Act. In our opinion, this statement in the law is also not appropriate, as it would in advance exempt all payments for the start-up of young farmers' activities, regardless of what they actually mean by the content of these payments. In order to increase legal certainty, the Ministry of Agriculture is already drawing up implementing rules in agreement with us, which will specify in more detail when it is considered that the means for initiating the activities of young farmers are long-term investment. This will, in fact, increase legal certainty or awareness in practice, which payments and under what conditions may be exempt from income payments already on the basis of the general definition of Article 26. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u27	Mr Branko Ravnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! I will also define myself until I propose an amendment. Indeed, in our view, the amendment makes sense to summarise the solutions that have also been found in the bill tabled by the Agricultural Forestry Chamber with the support of voters and voters. By the way, what's this all about? This is an exemption from taxation of support for the start-up of young farmers. The rural development programme sets out the content of the business plan and thus limits to the spending of the money that the young farmer receives. The point is, when someone asks for these funds, he commits himself not to spend money on anything, but to develop a farm. In fact, the business plan it presents – the business plan is also assessed, and the best business plans are, of course, financially supported. As long as the content related to the development of the farm is even better evaluated in the end, it is supported in this way, it is ensured that this money is also reasonably spent on development. For a period of three years, the business plan itself must show the economic development of the farm, contribute to horizontal objectives such as environmental impacts, climate change and innovation. The business plan itself has the main elements, baselines, key milestones, objectives for the development of the agricultural economy, a description of activities including which investments will be supported, resources can also be used for training, advice or other activities. We therefore believe that, already that the conditions for obtaining these funds are relatively accurate, these funds are guaranteed to be actually used in this respect. Indeed, what was our objective in the proposal, and such a goal is also pursued by the amendment, is to exempt investment, for example, in the complementary activity of farms. Young takeovers often start not only with basic but also with complementary activities and with costs associated with the transfer of the farm, such as the payment of heirs and other costs of transfer or acquisition of the farm. This would provide a much broader option. Otherwise, the current proposal of the Government, or the one under consideration, makes it easier to invest or invest in the basic agricultural activity, which is why we have also supported the solution. The fact is that a solution, if supplemented by an amendment, would be more appropriate in our view, but we also support the solution now provided for in the existing law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u29	Please apply for further discussion. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u30	Thank you very much. There would be no misunderstandings about the proposed amendment. We believe, for the first time, that there is nothing wrong with a certain asset being amortized, that it can also be forgiven, in short, one or the other, that there will be no mistake. We also have investment relief companies, and in such cases this needs to be regulated in relation to depreciation. With regard to the first part of our amendment, I believe that it is relevant and that long-term investments can constitute an exemption for the agricultural economy, for the farm and ultimately promote such a solution also with greater productivity and, finally, greater competitiveness. The second part of the amendment, which concerns young people and the start-up of activities, is also quite clear. There can be no costs here that would not be linked to the start-up of activities. In fact, this amendment refers to the activity and start-up of activities, this is not about costs that would be personal costs and so on. In short, this is exactly where it's set. As Mr Ravnik said, this is done on the basis of a business plan, a business model, which means, in other words, that this amendment primarily encourages young people to stay on farms, that the actual agricultural area of Slovenia will be better settled, better occupied, that people will not leave agriculture, that there will also be some balance in the country as regards population, production, income generation and that everyone, regardless of where they live and where they work, will be provided with more equal opportunities. Of course, we are all in favour of equal opportunities for everyone, but personally I cannot be blinded by the fact that all are guaranteed equal opportunities, but more equal, that there will be greater equalization of people wherever they live, wherever they are born and wherever they work, that they will have the opportunity to create, that they will also live on farms and will not be moving from farms to cities or even abroad, as has been the case lately. Thus, with this amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we also want to ensure that conditions of management are levelled across the entire territory of Slovenia, and that makes it completely relevant to us.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u31	Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u32	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, guests, welcome! I support any measure that will help to ensure that Slovenian agriculture is better, that we have more self-care, and that will encourage young people to be ready to take over farms. We know that agriculture is not a sector of any kind, but for every country, it is extremely important because self-sustainment is extremely strategic for every country. We know that we also have a number of problems that farmers have aged on farms, that many young people who want to continue farming do not see the future in this. Even the attitude towards the Slovenian farmer is not always the most friendly. Competition is strong when we look at neighbouring countries or other major countries where farming conditions are more favourable. That is why I am inclined, and I think it is right for us to do everything we can to encourage young people with measures such as those proposed in this amendment or, in general, with this law, that we will have more young farmers who have more energy to deal with new administrative measures. At the same time, I stress that we have too many of these administrative measures that we should strive to simplify things as much as possible where we can. We know that European agricultural policy requires a certain administration, but we must strive not to exacerbate it yet, we are increasing because people on farms are mostly used to working on the ground, while anything that is additional to paperwork can be very burdensome. That's how I support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u33	Well, there'll be a debate. Please sign up. Mr Primož Hainz has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice greetings for ministers or representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! If I hadn't listened to these introductory discussions, I wouldn't have even spoken in today's debate, because I'm just a coalition member, a member of the coalition party, and we support the measures we have on the table today. However, I must say that I am much more impressed by the large number of taxes that would go in the direction of flat-rate taxation. At this point, I'm not thrilled with our government's thinking. In fact, anything that simplifies, because it is not just a matter of simplification, is that people have a completely different psychological attitude towards taxes if they have some freedom within that minimum. Because we need to know, in this case we only talk about people who immediately waste everything they deserve, so this money is coming back directly, it's not money that goes into yacht purchases or I don't know what islands and avoid paying taxes. He seemed to me like a solution that we should use more than once. What really made me stop by is the following. Some of you are terribly concerned about the farmer in Slovenia and about any minority that would affect him in terms of taxation or relief, forest healing and so on. I must tell you that John the Evangelist Creek is turning in his grave. You're the one who's usually talking about selling everything. Read today's papers. And it didn't have to be today. It did not have to be today. You were to sell the grain, you were to sell the Mercator, and today – a surprise! – we buy and eat Croatian meat. I apologize for this debate, but this attitude towards the farmer starts not only with that mountain farmer who gets a little relief, but it begins completely! Slovenian goods, Slovenian agricultural products are significantly less sold, no doubt there is no doubt about this if you would like to talk about the role of farmer and farmer in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u35	Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u36	Thank you once again, Madam President, for your word. Now that I've listened to my predecessor, I feel like we've mixed things up a little bit. And I don't want to get into things, so I'd like to say the following. See, we have many modern farms in our country, where we can be extremely proud. This can be compared to all countries across Europe. Today we are talking about rural areas, farms that are small, which are mountainous. Let us see, dear colleagues and colleagues, even on this farm, when young people take over this farm, we must take account of their financial and economic benefits. I think that today the young man who was raised on a farm who was born on a farm was 20 years old on a farm, there is no problem that he would not take over this farm, but look, we have to take into account that he certainly cares not only about how he will manage this farm, how he will survive his family. And that's why I think this amendment is important. We're very close. In the previous debate, I praised all the segments, that this could be one sample of how we can step together, that when we get a signal from outside this room, that something needs to be changed, that we know if we want to get together, that we can change it. This is also about investment. Slovenia is very poorly self-sustained in several segments. And of course this amendment certainly refers to the field of investment, those small farms with complementary activities. Here I see myself, also coming from the countryside, that that small farm with five or even more hectares could survive less if it has even better conditions in the area I mentioned. Therefore, dear fellows and colleagues, let us listen and not mix grain now but I do not know who, but let us talk about the development of our countryside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u37	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests! It is right and cultural that our esteemed colleague Primož Hainz apologized for his debate, because this debate with John Evangelist Krek has nothing to do with it, but it would also be correct for Mr Hainz to add to the Slovenian public, because, of course, the public already knows that it was his parliamentary group, Desus, who voted in favour of the list of 15 companies going on sale. There was also Zito, a company on this list. The new Slovenia does not support this list, I underline, even though it is somehow obvious to us that we want to sell everything, perhaps even God. Well, so much for the introduction, and I didn't want to do that. I wanted to say that it is right that Parliament is extremely sensitive to the area of agriculture. I don't understand the field of agriculture as just some activity producing food. No, it's not. Agriculture isn't that. Agriculture is also an activity that takes care of the preservation of our cultural landscape. Although I understand Slovenian language is the most beautiful and richest, but here the English have very much, I would say the right word for agriculture: agriculture. This word says much, in fact, that farming is more than food production, that agriculture is a culture of land cultivation. Culture of soil processing, growing vegetable food and breeding animals. Everything must take place at an appropriate ethical level, towards which the world is becoming more difficult and supportive. This kind of farming is sonar, it's sustainable. Throughout history, Slovenian man has farmed culturally and thus shaped a cultural landscape that we are proud of and admired by the whole world. Sometimes when we drive through beautiful Slovenia, we do not see this beautiful cultural landscape, foreign tourists have to warn us about it. Who doesn't support this cultural landscape? Not just this year, not only in this mandate, but actually throughout all history, which the Slovenian people exist on this land. Agriculture is not only an activity for food production, it is also an activity for the preservation of our cultural landscape. And if we are already in ownership, whether state or private or whatever, here I would like to make one statement that the farmer is the most responsible owner, ladies and gentlemen. The most responsible owner. At this point, too, although we are not talking about the strategy for the development of Slovenian agriculture, and in some ways taxes, we must help, then today at this point in the agenda I remember the first Minister for Agriculture, Prof. Dr. Jožet Osterc, who in 1990 already wrote a programme for the development of Slovenian agriculture, where he says of course, which I deeply agree is the perspective of Slovenian agriculture in family farms. In family farms. European documents of the common European agricultural policy also talk a lot about this. If I'm talking about family farms, I'm thinking about young takeovers, because the second, if there's no family farms, if there's no inheritance, if there's no young takeovers. We need to stimulate this, colleagues and colleagues, in some way also through tax policy, including income policy, to stay on the farm, not to wave their hand, and not to say, I have enough of these bureaucratic obstacles, I have enough obstacles, I am not going to work in Austria anymore. This is the legislator's job to prevent such scenarios and to keep young people on farms. Life on farmers is certainly a nice, important mission, but the country has to communicate to farmers in some way through legislation that the country needs them to be respected, that the agricultural layer is that the farming population is worthy of respect. Many times we are here in the National Assembly, on the Committees of the National Assembly perhaps too machete to the peasant population. Remember when we discussed the damage caused by game on the Committee on Agriculture. We have prepared, in particular, New Slovenia, a few measures for this, and they have been easily driven. Indeed, we will wait for what will happen by the end of this autumn and see what the result is in particular in the hunting grounds of the special purpose of Compas Peskovci, where the game destroys up to 90% of the products. Up to 90%. Then it is normal for a farmer to lose all will, all the motivation to continue farming, to continue producing food for citizens and citizens, perhaps even for exports, and to continue to care for the cultural landscape. The amendment proposed is, of course, worth considering. I will personally support this amendment. It is therefore going in the direction of a solution, as has the Agricultural Forestry Chamber, and signed by 5,000 voters and voters, which, colleagues and colleagues, must never be ignored. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u39	Does anyone else want to discuss this point? The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance mag has the floor. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Once again, I would like to point out that the Government’s position does not mean that payments for the start-up of young farmers’ activities will be taxed or burdened by income go into the income base. The Government's position means that these payments will be exempt from income payments if they represent investment investments according to the content. And given how the co-proposers also explained the content of these payments, it can be argued that a large majority of such payments will be indeed exempt from income payments. However, part of payments is also income flat-rate payments which are not linked to long-term investments. And it is right for them to share the fate of all the other payments included in Article 26 of the Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u41	Does anyone else want to discuss this point? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 1a and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Vojka Shergan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u42	Hello again! I would also like to define myself before the second amendment. Before that, I would just like to point out that when we received this proposal to amend the Income Act and when we somehow tried to really try to go in the direction of facilitating the operations of these operators or entrepreneurs in the countryside, because, finally, small farmers are also, in some ways, entrepreneurs, although we sometimes forget that. When we tried to find a good solution, we did not go in the direction of just liking them, but to really try to have good rural conditions for farmers and entrepreneurs, a good business environment, just like all other micro and small businesses. I would really like to stress this, because I think it's wrong that we sometimes talk too much, but when a matter has to be set up for the benefit of these people, it turns out that's not the case on the ground. I advocate an open and open relationship for myself, so I will continue to work in this direction. Now for the second amendment. I will certainly not support this amendment, because, as I said in the introduction, I would like to see all operators, all economic operators, all economic categories have the same taxation in some of their core activities. Therefore, I think it is appropriate to support the government proposal, but not this amendment, because it is wrong to encourage individual entities to move from flat-rate taxation to compulsory taxation, because this does not mean the same conditions for the other categories of entrepreneurs if I make it easier to express myself. In short, I will not support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u43	Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u44	Thanks again for the word. If we were to be heard by entrepreneurs, we would certainly be told that we are very difficult to compare the economy and the topic of rural and rural agriculture, which we have been talking about for an hour now. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have prepared this amendment not because we like it. The Agricultural Forestry Chamber, which gives all farmers a lot of knowledge in Slovenia, helps and encourages them to develop. Of course, people today, when they sign some kind of signature, I think they're fucking sure of what they're signing. And these 5,000 signatures, I don't think it was hard to collect, if you had to, to collect more. This was a clear signal for our parliamentary group, the Slovenian Democratic Party, that we should take these things in the direction of the Slovenian countryside. If anyone thinks that we're going to be on Mercator's shelves tomorrow or one year later from a farm that has three or four hectares, we're fucking wrong. It's a long-term process. The Slovenian countryside is seen every day by those who also come to our country when they go to Bled, they go to Portorož and when they look at Slovenian pearls. Slovenian pearls are certainly pearls also because we have a regulated Slovenian countryside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u45	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u46	President, thank you for your word. A nice greeting to the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the proponents, as well as you, colleagues and colleagues, in this Chamber! When we talk about agriculture, we need to be relatively subtle. I will also say that agricultural activities cannot be compared with economic activity; agricultural activity is something quite specific. On a number of occasions, those who have never engaged in this activity have an opinion, and this opinion is spread out among other people, and then there is some perverse conclusion about agricultural activity. What has been proposed by the Agricultural Forestry Chamber, I have supported at the outset and will also support this proposal, which was finally drafted by the Committee on Agriculture, by my vote. Agricultural activity is an activity that requires special effort from each individual. And you know, if we didn't evaluate agricultural activities in this way in Europe, as they are currently assessed, in the past and even in the future, we would probably never have this way of promoting agricultural activities in Europe. It is clear why – the maintenance of the landscape is crucial. And this maintenance of the landscape is by promoting agricultural policy, the cheapest form. There's no cheaper form. You can imagine how much this country would cost us to eat up the hills of utilities. Or, if we are also comparing Europe to maintain this mountain land across Europe, in fact, people, workers working in municipal companies. That would be, as I mentioned earlier, significantly more expensive. In view of the fact that all the debaters have somehow generally assessed today's proposal for a law, I am also doing it in a way that is more broad-based. Given that I have listened to a discussion by my colleague Primož Hainz and then by my colleague Horvat, I must say that this is a game of words. It is true that we were in the coalition at the time of the adoption of these 15 companies, and colleague Horvat, you know very well that there was simply and simply no other choice at the time. Finding out who would sell something and not sell it will give us a chance to discuss it more today at the next point, and we will probably talk more about it then. Yeah, there's Zito on that list. Even though I voted for it, I am sorry that Zito came into the hands of those who have just come. And I will conclude at this point, and I will not encourage the debate on business sales, because we will have this opportunity and opportunity at the next point to say more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u47	Mr. Franz Ly has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u48	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear representatives of the Ministry, dear colleagues and colleagues! Agriculture is an extremely important economic sector in every national economy. There are often poor comparisons, since the comparison of the work on how much of the social gross product is produced. However, as my colleague Jurš already said, this is an extremely specific activity, it means that they are extremely long cycles. Every cycle, let's just look at the livestock industry, how long it is to practically get to the real income in this industry and, of course, normally in the family farm. I am absolutely in favour of carrying out all the procedures for de-liberating this sector, because, in any case and so on, farmers are extremely heavily burdened by the various reports, records, including on the basis of the use of subsidies and all other support related to their basic activities. In order to allow farmers more attention, to devote more time to their activities, it is important that their business environment be maximised and, of course, cheaper. If they have to keep business books, this means one additional financial burden for them and ultimately reduces their economic performance. This is where big problems occur, and these people are in big trouble. Let me tell you that most farmers in the countryside are far from urban environments, settlements and every contact, every clearing up of this problem, as far as reporting is concerned, is a big problem for them. Many times they must do as many as 30 miles [30 km] to make things right. And that's right, things are going in the direction of debirocraticism. We must not forget that agriculture can have extremely strong, multiplier effects also on other economic activities, I am thinking of tourism here in particular. These two can function very well and have synergies in the field or in the tourism sector. It is also very important to create a reliable local supply of healthy food, which then also has a very strong impact on the health of the population and, of course, on reducing costs in health care. This means that any such thing, which has a positive impact on agriculture, will certainly return repeatedly in the future to the benefit of all of us, says the whole society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u49	Mrs. Vojka Shergan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u50	I'd like to, maybe I didn't point out a few things. I'd like to say it one more time. I see very great opportunities on my own right in agricultural activities. I would also like to point out that action from below is of paramount importance. I myself have had the opportunity to meet with individuals, and perhaps, I will say, too, I am very much in favour of the fact that for farmers and complementary activities, which need to be stressed that economic activity and economic activity, I will always advocate that these individuals actually engaged in activities be burdened in different ways. On the other hand, we must not forget that with tax policy we can promote or not. So it seems to me that when we reached consensus with the Agricultural Forestry Chamber that this income law is good, I think that's what we did. I would like us all to somehow take note that we are to some extent committed to the development of this activity. On the other hand, let us not forget that taxes also regulate the activity in a way that we encourage it, and by investing in a case where there are additional reliefs, we are certainly doing so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u51	Mr Branko Ravnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u52	Thank you. Given that the solution to the bill under consideration is slightly different from that of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber, I would like to explain this amendment. The adoption process is a demanding process in which there are usually different opinions and solutions, and these opinions need to be exchanged and a common denominator of solutions sought. In the process of coordination, it was proposed by the Government that one who voluntarily engages in the bookkeeping income system is only one person who is also included in the value added tax system. We also agreed with such a solution in the coordination process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u53	Anybody else want to discuss this? [[Nobody.]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 3rd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 29. Agenda item — Defence Proposal for a Decision on the State’s capital investment management strategy. The proposal for a decree was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. In order to further explain the motion for a decree, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Method Dragonji.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! After a two-month public hearing, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a capital investment management strategy and forwarded it to the National Assembly for further consideration and acceptance. This is a core document which provides the basis for active holding of capital shares owned by the Republic of Slovenia and the state funds. The country's strategy to the equity manager, namely to communicate to the Slovenian State Holding, State Funds, State-owned enterprises, their supervisors, administrations and employees in these companies and to the public concerned clear objectives on the basis of which they will measure the effectiveness and expertise of managing the country's investments in companies. The management strategy is the basic document provided for in Article 28 of the Slovenian State Holding Act and has all the components of the strategic document. It defines the basic objectives that the State wishes to achieve with active ownership in state-owned enterprises, identifies and substantiates the criteria and criteria for the country's permanent or long-term presence in the ownership of companies and sets the highest standards of corporate governance in state-owned enterprises, and provides basic guidance on how managers and state-owned enterprises should achieve their objectives and expectations. The justification of State ownership rests on the recommendations and good practices of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, OECD. For the management of investments, the strategy sets out 7 basic objectives that I would not specifically repeat. A key part of the strategy is the classification of investments in accordance with Article 10 of the SDH Act, into strategic, important and portfolios. Together, it is classified in strategy 91 companies, of which 24 are strategic, 21 are important and 46 are portfolios. All investments are consistently classified, taking into account the criteria for defining their strategic importance, and some also take into account the provisions of specific laws defining the status and specific role of individual companies. The strategy also sets key financial and, in part, non-financial targets for all state-owned strategic and important enterprises, together for 46 companies, which has also triggered many discussions and comments by individual proposers during the public hearing. This proves that the objectives as a key element of the strategy are a very important part and thus we set a mirror for the performance of the manager of capital companies, the supervisory boards of companies, their administrations and employees. The objectives are set on the basis of business indicators of comparable companies in individual sectors at home and abroad and take account of the competitive position and conditions of operation of companies. The strategy is, in the proposed form, the first capital investment management document of the country, which has been introduced into the parliamentary process and has been given the widest public debate. We are aware that implementation practice will show shortcomings and therefore, Article 29 of the SDH Act and the proposed amendment to Chapter 7 of the Strategy provide that the Government and the Slovenian State Holding, after one year of implementation, may submit a proposal for amendments or a new strategy, taking into account the experience in its implementation and the changed economic situation. Dear Members and Members! On behalf of the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Mumorr, I would like to announce that this strategy is a key step towards the implementation of the provisions of the Slovenian State Holding Act and a step towards ensuring more efficient corporate governance of state-owned companies, so we propose that the National Assembly support the proposed strategy. For some reasons, however, the Minister failed to present these opening presentations today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u55	The motion for a decree was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mrs Urški Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u56	Mr President, thank you for saying so. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 11th meeting, on 23. 6. In 2015 and at the 1st meeting, the Council considered the draft decree on the strategy and management of the State's capital investments submitted to the State Council for consideration. In addition to the proposal for a decree, the Committee also received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, an opinion from the Commission on the economy, crafts, tourism and finance, additional material from the Ministry of Finance and comments from the Civil Society Coalition on the reconstruction of KCD. In the course of the course of business, the amendments were tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups and the United Left Group. The members and members were also invited to make 4 proposals for amendments to the Committee proposed by the Joint Left Group. Initially, the Committee decided on a proposal for a decision that the proposal for a decision on the State's capital investment management strategy was not suitable for further consideration and was not adopted. The meeting of the Committee was suspended and continued. 29. 6. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, Slovenian State Holding and Legal Services attended the first meeting. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained that this is a core document which provides a basis for the active management of the State's own capital shares and state funds and provides clear objectives on the basis of which the performance and expertise of the State's investment management in companies and business systems will be measured. It highlighted all the 7 core objectives set out in the Investment Management Strategy. He stressed that the strategy supports the broader development objectives of the Republic of Slovenia and at the same time creates the conditions for improving effective governance of state assets. A key part of the strategy is the classification of investments under Article 10 of the Law. He said that there are 91 companies or business systems in the strategy, of which 24 are strategic, 21 are important and 46 are portfolios. As key elements, the Secretary of State has highlighted measurable objectives, respect for independence, transparency, economy, due diligence and governance responsibilities. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented the written opinion. She pointed out that the content of the proposal was broader than the legal framework. In the opinion of the Office, the proposal for a decree also contains solutions to be considered in terms of system regulation and solutions which deviate from the programme nature of the strategy. It gave a warning on the prohibition of concentration of ownership or the conditions of dispersion of the ownership of private owners up to the amount of the total share of the country's capital investments. In the debate, some members expressed their dilemmas, concerns and opinions on the form and content of the proposed act, initially, individual members and members raised as problematic the legal form of the strategy as a document that could be amended, and considered that the strategy should be adopted as an indivisible whole. The content was further expressed in the opinion that the strategy was not considered to be a political document with a list of companies with defined sales shares, based on political preferences, without adequate sales criteria. On the contrary, some of the members and members of the proposed act supported the debate and assessed its content as acceptable and balanced. They stressed the early adoption of the strategy as a core document for the operation of SDH and responsible corporate governance of state assets following the OECD guidelines. In their view, the document provides the basis for preventing the impact of the stakeholders on the day-to-day management of individual companies and for ensuring that the owner, i.e. the country, sets clear objectives for the long-term and transparent management of state-owned enterprises. They stressed the fact that within one year of the adoption of the strategy, the government can carry out its audit and assess its effects. In the course of the debate, the Secretary of State replied to the question raised and provided further clarifications. The Committee adopted the coalition amendments and the other amendments were not adopted by the Committee. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted on all articles of the draft decree and adopted them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u57	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is not irrelevant that we adopt the State Property Management Strategy just today, exactly one year after the elections won by the Mir Cerar Party. This year, this party not only changed its name, but also all the views that the party advocated before the elections about privatisation. One of the key promises of Mir Cerar before the elections was the deliberate privatisation and preservation of strategic companies such as Telekom, Aerodrome and others, state-owned and new standards in politics. The strategy that we are adopting today, and there is nothing left of these views and promises. We have before us an act not a strategy, a strategy that implies thinking ability, we have an act to continue the reckless privatisation that this government is already implementing. Let me warn you in just two cases, a recent one, the first is the scandalous sale of Telekom, and the second is the sale of the NKBM, with which we actually sold the bag of money. Since the launch of the management strategy in the United Left, we have been reminded of the harmfulness of the document put forward in this way. The act is inadequate after the formal level. Firstly, the proposal does not allow the implementation of the provisions of the Articles of the Slovenian State Holding Act, namely the provisions of Articles 4, 11 and 28 of the SDH Act governing management acts and their mandatory content, and Articles 7, 17 and 30 of the SDH Management Directive. Secondly, the act is based on documents which have not yet been adopted and which it assumes as national coordinated priorities. Here I am primarily talking about the banking and insurance strategy mentioned in the strategy, which are essentially government work materials, and it is assumed that these are some of the national objectives adopted. Thirdly, the act was not in line with the recommendations of the Legislative and Legal Service, which pointed out several formal irregularities, but did not remove the coalition with amendments to these irregularities. In the United Left, we have therefore already warned at the beginning of the debate that the act is inappropriate for consideration and that a serious government should take it back, correct it and present it to us in a complementary form that is at least formally appropriate. Our proposal has been rejected, so today we have the document we have before us. In terms of content, it is important that we first find out that there are practically no employees in this strategy. This is interesting because, at the time of developed capitalism, there has been a greater challenge for some time than how to produce a thing, how to employ people, but employment as a key category to be pursued by state ownership is not mentioned in this strategy at all, it is mentioned only where the need for rationalisation is discussed, which, of course, translated from this new river means forgiveness. Secondly, this strategy is not a management strategy, but a privatisation strategy. First of all, we can find that 46 state investments or enterprises where the state has ownership stakes will be fully sold, and the real country will withdraw completely from 46 companies. Secondly, banking will privatise the entire banking sector with the exception of 25% of NLB, which is the way to the global and European periphery. Thirdly, also strategic companies will sell up to 50% and one share, which means that companies that the government itself considers strategic will be privatised at least 49%. And thirdly, there is no development strategy in this strategy, but only if we remove all the ballast is just a grave list of instructions on how to sell SDH state property. We cannot support such a document in the United Left. However, we have proposed a series of amendments on the home committee, with which we have tried to make it at least acceptable, and the government or coalition has also rejected this. Today, in the open section or in the section, we are proposing three amendments with which we will try to mitigate the damage a little bit, and this is, for the first time, to include 15 companies in that infamous privatisation list, the second time that Krka and Gorenje, as the two largest Slovenian brands, are defined as strategic companies, that Abanka Vipa and Banka Celje are considered to be a joint bank because they are already in fact, and the strategy does not take them into account as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u59	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u60	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! The adoption of the country's capital investment management strategy is an urgent action and a necessary action. That's a fact. In fact, this adoption of the strategy has been a long time overdue since it should have been adopted more than one year ago. I am, of course, referring to the formal requirements of the current Slovenian State Holding Act, which had foreseen the adoption of the strategy by June of last year. We know the reasons why the strategy was not adopted. However, if we are thinking of content, the direction and strategy of our country's economic development would have been needed long ago, 20 years ago, or even more. Given that Prime Minister Miro Cerar announced a deliberate privatisation when he took office, in this context we expected a strategy for managing capital investments that will be prepared on professional grounds and on the basis of a weighed decision on the direction in which we plan to develop our country and its economy in the future. This is a decision on which sectors will be encouraged to bring economic development to countries and citizens in the long term, in order to improve public services, improve standards in health and education and in particular raise the standard of the population. This document is intended or should be intended for this purpose. The proposal for a strategy, which the Government has forwarded to the National Assembly, is unfortunately only the result of political purchases within the government coalition, which will allow its survival in this mandate, i.e. for a maximum of three years. Why such an assessment? This government coalition has designated some companies as strategic, and it is clear that they are not strategic for citizens, but only for some political parties that have their ATMs in these state-owned companies. If we are specific, Insurance Company Triglav is defined as a strategic investment in the government proposal for a strategy. Is insurance really the sector that we are going to develop and invest as a country? Few, very few of those countries in the European Union are owned or controlled by insurance companies. Let's not forget. We have a globalised insurance market with large insurance systems. Will we be able to provide the means to invest in insurance or Triglav Insurance in the years to come and ensure its competitiveness in a globalised market? In Novi Slovenija we claim that politics must withdraw from the economy as soon as possible. The economy will only find the best strategies, the best markets and the best products. The more policy interferes with the economy, the more the prices of shares of companies in which the state participates with its capital shares. However, in the proposal for a strategy, there are significantly too many companies identified as strategic and important, i.e. companies where the state will retain its ownership. In our view, the adoption of the content strategy, as prepared by the Government, will reject the privatisation process, i.e. the withdrawal of policies from the economy. So the process of finding responsible owners who will effectively manage companies that will be competitive, development-oriented and provide jobs for our citizens and citizens. For this reason and for many other reasons Members of the New Slovenia Group The proposal for a decree on the country's capital investment management strategy will not be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u61	The word is given by the Alliance's Group of Ambassadors, a magi for him. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u62	President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Let me start by saying that I am actually happy that we are still talking about selling or managing our companies in the National Assembly. Those who monitored the weekend event in Greece, which has any major impact on Slovenia, could see that Greece, unfortunately, would have to leave 50 billion euros of assets to manage others. It's just for those of you who've called our country a threesome, like those who think there's no need to change anything in our country. Once again, I am pleased that we are still discussing and deciding on this strategy and our assets. The adoption of the Resolution on the Capital Investment Strategy of the Republic of Slovenia has already been problematic several times in our Parliamentary Group of the Alliance. The strategy is a fundamental act under which the Slovenian State Holding will operate, or a fundamental act of capital investment management of the Republic of Slovenia. It is a management strategy in which the Government, as the author of the act or the National Assembly as the one it accepts, expresses the ownership policy of the Republic of Slovenia as the holder of the investment. The management strategy should clearly, at least, define investments by type and set the development and long-term objectives that the Republic of Slovenia wants to achieve as owner of these investments. In particular, the objectives that the Republic of Slovenia wishes to achieve with each investment, defined as strategic or important, are of particular importance. The Slovenian State Holding Act in Article 29 provides that the strategy proposed by the Government shall be adopted by the National Assembly and shall apply until the adoption of the new strategy. In short, in our view it is impossible to change on the basis of political purchases; this was the aim of the law. The National Assembly may repeal or amend the strategy only by adopting a new strategy, not by amending or amending the course of proceedings in the National Assembly. We have repeatedly identified the way in which the strategy was adopted in the Alliance's Group as wrong. It was precisely what the law was trying to prevent – there was political bidding on the classification of investments. This is the case of the Triglav Insurance Company, as well as Terme Olimia, and what else could be found. I'll only mention the case of the insurance company. SDH and ZPIZ have a slightly more than 62% share in the Triglav Insurance Company together and do not have voting rights. In its judgment of 30 June 2015, the Court of Justice confirmed to the Securities Markets Agency that the new Law on takeovers did not provide a basis for the issuance of a new decision which would restore the voting rights of State owners. The possibility offered by SDH today is only to buy back the share of minority owners or, together with SDH, the majority owner is left without voting rights. So what will the Government or SDH do - make a takeover offer - have a strategic investment without the possibility of influencing important decisions? Is that strategic?Oh, my God! Are such companies strategic for you?Oh, my God! But if you decide to make a takeover offer, where will you get the money? Let me mention that SDH already has denationalisation obligations and credit liabilities without this obligation. Thus, for the next two years, the loan liabilities amount to EUR 455 million and around EUR 340 million denationalisation. I hope, Madam Secretary of State, that we will have an answer to this question. We will not support the strategy in the Alliance's Group, for the first time, because of the way in which it is adopted in the National Assembly and also because of substantive reservations.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u63	The text shall be given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, Mr Franc Laj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u64	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear representatives of the Ministry and all others present! The country's capital investment management strategy is a country's core instrument for active ownership of the country, with which Slovenia has for the first time in its history communicated its objectives to the State's investment manager, shareholders, the wider capital market and the general public in the management of state-owned companies. The strategy is therefore the main and most important act of capital investment management in the country on which the whole concept of the Slovenian State Holding Act is based. According to its content, the political act of a programme and implementation nature is an act of managing the capital investments of a country which defines Article 28 of the SDH Act. The strategy is the basic tool for the quality functioning of SDH, for efficient corporate governance with clearly defined objectives and expected economic, public financial and social impacts. The document also allows the implementation of the requirement to separate the function of the State as the owner of capital investments from its other functions, concentrated management, a transparent management system in accordance with international good practice guidelines, thereby reducing the corruption risks underpinned by the involvement of the KPK, the Court of Auditors, the President of the Commission for the supervision of public finances and the supervisory authority and the SDH Assembly. The principle of independence of management does not mean a complete withdrawal from management, but rather the non-involvement of policies and stakeholders in the day-to-day process management of individual companies. It is clear from the fundamental objectives pursued that, while financial objectives have a priority in management, they do not exclude non-commercial objectives, and it is not only a document for the sale of capital investments, but it is targeted. The strategy is based on an analysis of the state of the country's capital investment portfolio and classified it as strategic, important and portfolio-based and defines their management. However, management of each individual capital investment shall be established by means of each annual plan prepared and adopted by SDH with the agreement of the Government in accordance with the strategy. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we support the Proposal for a Decree on the State's Capital Investment Management Strategy, because we believe that the strategy represents a major step towards efficient and socially responsible management of the country's capital investments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u65	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, the last mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u66	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Initially, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we would like to stress that we are deeply disappointed because the government of Mira Cerar and the coalition, Desus, SD, has not invited us, the opposition party, to design a strategy. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the strategy is not only a government document, but that it is the property of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and that it would be hygienic for the opposition to participate in the development of this document. This step has not been taken by the government of Mir Cerar. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the proposal to classify investments stops both privatisation and the development of Slovenian companies. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are confident that we have also repeatedly asked and stressed that the proposed classification of investments will not ensure that the Slovenian State holding company is able to settle its legal obligations from its liquidity assets. It is also clear that privatisation is halting that the Slovenian State Holding issued a five-year bond of EUR 100 million a few days ago. We are confident that this classification of investments prepared by the Government of Mir Cerar will not bring added value to Slovenian companies and that the existence of competitiveness on the market will also be questionable. With regard to the strategy and the content itself, we believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that this document is flawed and that the document in particular lacks the key objectives that the strategy should have. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we estimate that the main objective for the strategy and management of state-owned enterprises should be higher budget revenues from the management of state-owned enterprises such as management expenditure to the budget. We have not pursued this objective in the strategy. The strategy also lacks the objectives of how sales will be sold, especially what the country will do with the purchases. The biggest disappointment in the document itself is certainly a dispersed property. With the spread of ownership, the government of Mir Cerar and the SD and Desus coalition have proved that they want to continue to have power and influence in companies. For with diversified ownership, it will be clear that the government of Mira Cerar still wants to manage businesses, appoint administrations and appoint supervisory councils, which will also allow them to have dispersed ownership. Dispersed ownership also means substantially smaller purchases for the Slovenian state budget, for the Slovenian state holding company and, finally, with diversified ownership, Slovenian companies will not be able to obtain strategic partners. This asset management document, the asset management strategy, clearly proves that the old route will continue, that taxpayers will also have to rehabilitate businesses in the future. It is also asked that there is a high risk of the sustainability of the pension fund. For all these reasons, for all these reasons, due to all these shortcomings in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not support the proposal for a strategy for the management of state-owned enterprises and the classification of investments.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Jurša will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to the Secretary of State and his co-worker. Comrades and colleagues, welcome you once again! The country's capital investment management strategy is now more than a necessary document for the country. It serves as an excellent starting point for the analysis of the current business situation of individual companies in which the Republic of Slovenia owns. Such companies are currently 91 in which the value of the assets is at 31. 12. 2014 totalled EUR 11.4 billion of book value of capital shares. The largest share, that is 33% of the financial sector, is banks and insurance companies. In view of certain criteria, such as strategic-development, sector-business, network and public finance indicators, the list has been broken down into 24 strategic, 21 important and 46 portfolios or companies envisaged for sale. The criteria for decommissioning capital investments are mainly based on the strategic development priorities of the Republic of Slovenia. These include, for example, natural monopolies, important infrastructure projects, technology and sustainable development and wider social interest. At the same time, let me point out that the classification of capital investments has changed several times. The criteria themselves have changed, so we still have a feeling in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners that the criteria have adapted to the interests of the sale of individual companies. In this context, we still do not have a clear answer to the question regarding the definition of the importance of tourism and food processing companies, as the latter can have a positive impact on job growth and balanced regional development, depending on the country's naturalities. The act ahead of us could be named domestically as a privatisation strategy for state-owned enterprises, but the whole strategy is not just a matter of selling state investments. The fact that he has no objection is that we have 46 investments in the classification, but this represents only 14% of the value of state investment; here I am thinking of those that will be sold. Strategic investments, for example, have a total of 68% of the value of state capital. We have been actively involved in the preparation of this act throughout the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. We have put forth great effort to put in place a position that we have firmly defended not only since the beginning of this document’s operation or design but through and through. And that we are right, we were also confirmed by the people at the referendum when it opposed the sale of the Triglav Insurance Company. With the amendment, we have succeeded in achieving that Insurance Company Triglav in this act is defined as a strategic investment, and it is unconditional. I would like to draw attention to the word 'conditionless' because there were several versions of the text in between. I will not repeat the reasons for the strategicism in this place, as we have presented them in detail several times, both to the government and to the public. Let me stress, however, that the share of the Triglav Insurance Company is 34,67 %, and this is extremely important for the financing of the demographic fund, which is necessary for the long-term and balanced sustainability of the pension treasury. In order to be an emergency fund, the Government also met and included it in the text of the strategy. The fact is that inflows to the pension register are declining, especially during the economic crisis, and the number of pensioners is, of course, increasing due to demographics. We are pleased, however, that the possibility of reviewing the sales of state-owned enterprises is in place. We estimate that after one year all the positive and negative effects of the operation of all companies must be carefully reconsidered and considered. And on the basis of the results of the audit, the strategy can also be changed. Despite the complications in drafting the final text and the concerns expressed, we will support the strategy in the Group of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Slovenia, through its management strategy, receives a comprehensive document that regulates in one place how we manage the country's capital investments. This direction was already advocated by the Social Democrats at the time of the birth of the then Capital Investment Management Agency, the so-called AUKN. Today, six years later, we are back on the subject. Intermediate time lost is mainly due to the actions of those who have taken a strong stand for so-called sales, and they have quietly wished that they could continue fishing in mud and have an impact on state property. The adoption of the strategy took place on a day-to-day basis in many different interests, ladies and gentlemen. Today we have a strategy with which no one is fully satisfied, but let us see who is not satisfied. According to the Ministry of Finance, the proposal does not satisfy the administrations of state-owned enterprises, as they are required to achieve very high financial goals or yields. We have state property in particular where companies operate the final infrastructure in order to achieve and mitigate the pressure on the state budget. They are not satisfied, ladies and gentlemen, with the proponents of the sale of state property, those who would privatise everything very quickly. Since we believe in the importance and power of the public, we are happy about this dissatisfaction. And we say the strategy is not a sales document. The strategy is a document that determines what must remain ours and what objectives we will set for the managers of our assets. Of course, neither are those who want things to stay the way they are. That companies still do not have the same goals, that we are not on the clear side of what to do with state property. In view of all these discontents, we can assess that a document is good enough for us. The changes are not introduced on general applause, ladies and gentlemen. The current situation does not change so that everyone gets what they want. The adoption of the strategy is a difficult decision, but to make difficult decisions, however, Members and Members are also paid. The so-called withdrawal of the country from the economy, especially where the state is not a key owner, does not change with one law, with one strategy, but changes with consistent actions or with some new business culture. State-owned companies shall be given their classification, for which operators and politicians will be able to understand how they are managed and what the role of state ownership is. At this point, let us stress that the classification of investments as portfolio investments does not mean that it is intended for sale. It simply means that the State has a stake in the company in order to achieve a capital return in particular. And importantly, with the strategy, something else is changing, and the country must assume the role of an active owner where it will and is the majority owner. The owner, who will be able not only to claim results, will also be able to help the company when the company gets in trouble or when the company needs new capital for new developments. Of course, we could look for hairs in the egg, we could look for companies that we think are not properly classified. Given that this document is being adopted for the first time, such incomprehensibility is, in some ways, understandable. But since the key solutions are well established, we are assessing that the document deserves our support. We often hear that the country of Slovenia is not a good owner and should therefore sell everything to foreigners. We are opposed to this by the Social Democrats. We therefore support the strategy. This brings clear guidance on the management of State ownership and also on the obligations of the State as owner. We have, of course, had many concerns, for which we estimate that they have been satisfactorily eliminated, in particular by deciding that the strategy will be revised and sent back to the National Assembly within a year. Thus, we will all have the opportunity to check whether the strategy works and then to complement it with responses to all these findings. In the meantime, we need to start smart management. That is why we will support this strategy by the Social Democrats and at the same time require the SDH administrator to make such a strategy [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u71	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the discussion on the chapter and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of the amendment tabled on 10 July 2015, so we are moving on to Chapter 5 of the State Capital Investment Decommitment. In the debate, I give Chapter 5 Discharge of the country's capital investments and the amendment of the United Left Group. Please sign up for the debate. Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u72	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. A respected choir! Although the experts have prepared some material for me, I'll be speaking mostly to myself. By the way, the rules of procedure of a national assembly in a kingdom had to be made clear. But I'm gonna start with a quote, and this time it won't be Roland Barthes. I quote: "If not, I know who I am, what I want to become, what I want to achieve, where I begin and where I end, my relationships with people and the rest of the world are necessarily tense, full of mistrust and burdened with a low-value complex that can hide beneath a brazenly exaggerated self-confidence." This was written by one of the larger minds, politicians, statesmen of the second half of the past century. I quoted Václav Havel. Since we must, of course, stick to the amendments, as Comrade Luke has already said, we are trying to solve what to get rid of. We want 15 companies from the first package or what is left of them to be valued through this methodology of yours. We are proposing new classifications that place certain companies in strategic terms. And, of course, looking at the already united bank as a whole. When I heard this debate so far, this interpretation of the position, I got the feeling that we were talking about two worlds, two different documents. Believe me, me and my people in the United Left are reading these things very seriously. I read this strategy five times. I read it six times this morning. It begins promisingly: "The Republic of Slovenia is an important owner of assets in companies that have been created by generations in the past to date." But then these generations, then basically people in this strategy are forgotten. The strategy is, as a political act, a fundamental document of a country based on some of the documents already mentioned. This morning, I was reading an interview with the head of the SMC Group on the Siol portal, where there was talk about project cooperation, the SDS representative made it very clear how he spoke about this project cooperation, Mr Miro Cerar discussed this during the campaign – today, by the way, a year from the last elections – and then somehow he forgot about this project cooperation. Mr. Han has given me almost too many points to answer. He says: Strategy is not a document of sale. Mr Jurša said earlier: The strategy could be referred to as a privatisation strategy for state-owned enterprises. You see, in the coalition, they don't seem to understand. Then came Mr Han's argument: "...where many are dissatisfied, this means that the document is good." I don't know, but I will, so we all understand: If Mr. Han's partner is unhappy with him in bed, does that mean Mr. Han is good? Not to take it too personally, but a metaphor that you probably all understand. Come in. "For the first time we've done this document, imperfection is understandable." Because for the first time I'm gonna cook something, I'm gonna burn the kitchen down. Or what? I think so! I'm sorry, my dear gentlemen, but I apologize to Han a little bit, but the experts have written it so that I had to respond. Now the pensioners, because they have a party representing the pensioners because they have enough votes, have succeeded with the Triglav referendum, unconditionally and so on. Mr. Jurša, why not a referendum on everything over a certain amount? To see human will. I already said in the debate that this strategy is "non-document" for me. It's nonpaper. In my life, I've written a number of strategies in 20 professional years, mostly together, something on my own, and I don't think of that. There are basically no answers to this non-document. It's not a strategy. It doesn't say here what I used to quote Havel, what we would like to do in this Slovenia. There are no people in this strategy except one copy paste. This is some basic country document that you're supposed to write down somewhere inside a "proactive strategy". It's not a proactive strategy. It is noted in the introductory words "other possible strategic objectives", which are not then defined in this strategy. Literally, it rides only on the net profitability of capital, in short, even these basic economic indicators are not much more detailed if they want to remain within this neoliberal paradigm. There is talk of sound investment, and of course every country also sells something, and it gets a new investment to make a more active full budget if you want, but this thoughtful investment acquisition is somewhere 40% of one side and there is a lot of hollowness, three sentences. Mr. Pogačnik is also a little bit of a principle. Will there be ransoms for future thoughtful investments? I don't see it in this strategy somehow. It's not written in here. And I have to repeat myself, we're somehow mixing ownership and management. All the serious studies and I read them quite a bit, of course, show that ownership can be very varied and, with good governance, provide profitability if it is somehow marinated as a deer's back with economic democracy, with labour co-management, then it is even better and better. We have recently had one gentleman from the leading central cooperatives here on a visit to Parliament – and there was not much visit by Members and Members – who explained to us clearly why the partnership is not just a cooperative in the agrarian sector, why these companies are so organised more robust, why Nucleus does not leave territoriality where one activity was established and could also list. Since the United Left Group has only 30 minutes, I hope it will soon have 130 of them, I'm kind of coming to an end. They're also talking about dispersed property. They're saying that SD's in there. I don't know if it is or not. This dispersed property can be partially commented on as well as the SDS, but we can also view it as warned by the Legislative and Legal Service, so that it can happen, that it will also be constitutionally controversial. Whatever I'm doing, and even if I turn it around five more times and read it five more times, I'm sorry, gentlemen, but this is not a strategy for me. This is not a strategy for me. Perhaps it would be if the opposition were invited to write this strategy, because obviously there are more people in the opposition who wrote such strategies, who know what this should mean, what operationalisation also means, what more methodological apparatus would mean, after all, how to look at these things. In short, everything in here is missing. This strategy, on the other hand, will not lead to any stable ownership. Apparently, it will lead to some real estate sale as far as possible. Apparently, this money will spill into some kind of merger, I don't know what – the current losses – but not into the future capital investment of the country. It is more than obvious that it is here forgotten about the generations that have created this to forget that some added value is created by workers and workers. In short, like a Pooh bear donkey would say, "Miserable, moaning and mortifying." And of course I can't support such a strategy. The fact that you didn’t mean it already appears in this one excuse: Ah, but we’ll have a little look, and in a year we'll fix it. In short, if it were to be a basic document of the State, such an approach should not be allowed to approach the drafting of such a document. We very much argued in ten hours on the parental committee why this is not a strategy for us. But the new power has obviously fallen heavily into the fact that power is sweet, and this strategy is also appropriate. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ursha Ban has the floor. Here you go. [[advertising from the hall]] There's no replica unless you're a speaker first.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u74	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, representative of the Ministry of Finance, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are considering a core document which will be essential for the active management of the country's capital shares owned by the Republic of Slovenia and the state funds. To this day or so far, no government has prepared or adopted such a document. This document, which we have on the table today, sets clear objectives on the basis of which the performance and expertise of the country's investment management in companies and business systems will be measured. The investment managers of the country, shareholders, the capital market and also the general public shall be informed of their objectives in the management of state-owned companies. However, at this point, it would also look at the debate so far on this topic, where it was possible to detect at least two fields or the attitude of citizens to state property, which is divided into those who advocate State ownership as ineffective and therefore socially harmful, and those who see social value in the state ownership of companies, if private ownership serves narrowly interesting motives that are usually socially harmful. In the debates, one part of the policy to this strategy has also been defined as a strategy for the sale of state property and another to halt privatisation procedures. In the SMC Group, we believe that this is a strategic reflection and a balanced document, from which are those sectors where the country has a strategic, say, long-term interest, and which are those companies where the country is previously hampered as something else and are identified in the strategy as portfolio companies or truffle investments. However, one of the most recent analyses of this type is found in the report on Slovenia in the framework of the so-called European Semester 2015 by the European Commission. This Communication shows that our country owns a super-average company and at the same time that it achieves sub-average results when compared with some other countries in Central and Eastern Europe from Poland, Slovakia, Croatia, Hungary, Bulgaria and Romania. Among the 20 countries covered by this analysis, which included those countries for which the European Commission has found excessive economic imbalances, Slovenia is first in line with the share of GDP held by state-owned enterprises. In our country, this percentage is 30%. The poor governance of state property – including from this analysis – caused almost 13.4 billion euros in damage to Slovenian public finances between 2007 and 2014. In these years, we have survived the economic crisis, but other countries have helped both banks and businesses, but nowhere are the costs of the share of GDP as high as we do. These costs, which I have been talking about, relate mainly to the direct costs of the State, which are considerable, of the costs for the rehabilitation of the banking system, which consist of all the recapitalisations of the State banks, the costs of the establishment of the DUTB, the recapitalisation of state-owned companies, the subsidies to these companies and also the cash guarantees for loans. These are all costs directly shown in the budget balances. Given that our country's total foreign debt at the end of 2007 was €7.9 billion and increased to $30.3 billion by the end of last year, we see that a large proportion of this increase is also due to expenditure to help financial and non-financial enterprises in majority or dominant state ownership. For these reasons, it is still important that the Government has prepared this document, which we are discussing today. This is a basic tool for the quality functioning of SDH, for efficient corporate governance with clear objectives and expected economic, public financial and social impacts. The document also allows for the separation of the State as the owner of the capital investment from its other functions. It provides a transparent management system, which will also reduce corruption risks. Article 28 of the Slovenian State Holding Act also provides for the preparation of such a strategy. In our view, this strategy also supports the wider development objectives of the Republic of Slovenia and creates the conditions for improving effective governance of state assets. The classification of investments under Article 10 of the Slovenian State Holding Act is also a key part of the strategy, with 91 companies, of which 24 are classified as strategic, 21 as important and 46 as portfolio investments. According to the book value of the capital at the end of 2013 this means that strategic investments represent 68 % of the value of all investments of the country, significant investments of 18 % and portfolio investment of 14 % of the value of capital. The strategy further identifies as important objectives the increase in the expertise and efficiency of management, the increase in capital returns, the increase in the classification of state-owned companies on the stock market and the creation of a reserve demographic fund by the end of 2015. From this point of view, I can conclude that we need this strategy, and we will also confirm it in our Group of Members, as it will set out on the one hand both the privatisation guidelines and the guidelines for the management of state assets, thereby giving the Slovenian State Holding a clear basis for further action in the field of State property management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Method Dragonja, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u76	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. In view of the fact that we are discussing the amendment to Chapter 5 I ask that you allow me to comment a little on the other views and opinions expressed by the groups on the document. First of all, I would like to point out that the very diversity, material diversity of views and views of the groups of Members shows in some way that this is a document that is substantively very demanding and has been prepared with great care, consistent, and to seek some path that will represent for most of the political bloc in the National Assembly an acceptable document on the basis of which the management of State property can be carried out in the coming period. As we pointed out in the introduction, this is the first document that came with the Government to the National Assembly and which was also discussed in the National Assembly at the working body, which is currently under way. This is a management strategy, so that very extreme views on how we are extremely unilateral, to stop privatisation on the one hand and, on the other hand, to create the conditions for sale, these views can also be somewhat justified, but if we look at it as a whole, I think that it is in this structure of the number of enterprises and their classification and the value of the capital resulting from them that we see clearly that, in fact, we are careful on the criteria defined, we have tried to set this crucial dilemma in particular or to define this key dilemma, what are the elements of the strategic relevance of state ownership companies and for this strategic group of enterprises we have also tried to define measurable objectives and indicators by which we will measure these objectives. Comments, especially the United Left, are strongly focused on the fact that this is a neoliberal concept because it is based solely on financial indicators. Today, capital companies are managed according to capital principles, companies according to capital principles, so that they must be at the forefront of our assessment. However, the emphasis is also on following other broad objectives, for example, the emphasis is given in Chapter 3.3 of the Strategy, which discusses the improvement of corporate governance in paragraphs 7, 8 and 9, where they are defined. We have also included the criteria for employment and respect for employment as a key national economic objective, which should be followed by state-owned enterprises as operators of economic development. In fact, the commitment of these companies is also given in this part. However, businesses will be able, through their SDH management mechanisms, through their implementing bodies, to further define and set non-financial objectives in this area in cooperation with the co-management mechanisms in their employment and relations with workers. We agree with the position of the NSI Group that politics must withdraw from the economy. I believe that the document is implemented by these principles of independence of management, transparency of governance, economy, diligence and accountability, and in particular by the independence of SDH from each executive authority or political levers, in order to ensure this. As regards the warning given by the Alliance's and SDS Group on the financial obligations of SDH in the part where this strategy identifies the assets owned by SDH as the legal successor of the Court, it is necessary to establish that the privatisation process so far has not sufficiently enabled the creation of liquid assets to cover the obligations that the Court has under different laws. We also talked about the extent of these obligations on the parent’s working body. Currently, around EUR 455 million of various debt instruments have been issued. The net debt, however, is slightly lower because SDH also has some EUR 100 million liquidity positions in different forms, so in this part the net debt is around EUR 350 million. This debt is sustainable to this extent. However, additional measures will need to be taken in 2015-2016 and in early 2017 to ensure the necessary liquidity to cover SDH obligations arising from denationalisation and other legal bases. There is also a clear need to take into account the obligations that still arise under the Denationalisation Act, which is estimated at around EUR 300 million. Some 70 million are obligations under other laws, which should also be foreseen. We anticipate that we will do this in a part where SDH alone will not be able to secure the necessary liquidity and settlement from denationalisation bonds in particular, in order to ensure this through the exchange of assets between the country and SDH. As far as the use of privatisation purchases is concerned, I think that these are clearly defined in the law, they would not repeat this. It was also important that State property contribute to the long-term sustainability of the pension system, which we have included in the document and will then follow with further activities, with the preparation of a draft law on the reserve demographic fund that we are already preparing at the Ministry of Finance and will be given to coalition parties or all parliamentary parties in the previous debate after the end of parliamentary holidays. So that the use of purchases is defined in the law, and this is not specifically defined in the strategy. As regards the amendment of the United Left Group in the first part concerning the classification of proposed companies, I must say that in the companies proposed here, to be distributed among strategic groups such as Krka, Gorenje and Petrol, the country has 26.8% equity in Krk and, if defined as strategically, the law itself does not require the State to increase its capital share to 50% plus one share, because there is also no financing for this, due to the public financial consequences. Thus, the strategy also requires that this classification, which is proposed, is important to society, in fact requires that the holders of the shares of Krka do not withdraw from its ownership. The same is true for Gorenje, where the state is a much smaller owner, 16.37% and Petrol with 28% equity is already an important investment and the situation is the same. It is said that there are some pragmatic elements concerning public financial aspects that would not substantially change the elements for the presence of the State or state funds in these companies. It's a little different, as far as Heath's concerned. There was a lot of discussion about Hit. Hit is one of the companies that performs gaming activities where concessions and state ownership are combined. In the discussions, it was estimated that Hit needed, in particular, new management and ownership initiatives, which could also be achieved in such a way that Hit could be more exposed to private ownership initiatives, so that the activity within the concessions granted could develop unhinderedly. In the area of tourism, we have also given individual companies the status of important companies, but not all – we have explained this on the labour market – because this group is too large, but we have identified two of the four state-owned companies in particular the results they have achieved so far in their management, in their growth and in their role as economic development agents. The situation in Cimos is a bit specific, that's something to be said in particular. Cimos, where, according to the document before you, the state has a minimum ownership of around 8% of the equity, has increased to around 35% in the financial reorganization process that was concluded this year. Here it will be very important that the further ownership structure of this company will be one that will allow its integration into the value chains within the automotive industry, these automotive clusters, Cimos is the holder of this. Such a distribution does not mean that the company will be privatised immediately. We will follow this company's position very closely and, in particular, in view of its ability to acquire new businesses as a development supplier of new car models, we will then direct both SDH and a bad bank, which, on the basis of the conversion of the work of credits, has also become a part owner of this company, in order to ensure the strategic objectives of this company's business and that it will continue to carry out its strategic mission as defined in its corporate documents. These are key elements of why we do not support the proposals of this first amendment because we believe that it does not constitute any significant change to the country's long-term ownership position in this company and that these companies can carry out their strategic development functions as envisaged by this strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I might have responded slightly to some who, in their views, have in some way assessed why, in the Democratic Party of the Retired, in the Group of Members, in fact, we advocate the strategicity of the Insurance Office of Triglav. We don't see any dairy cows in Triglav Insurance and we don't have any members of the board who would also be a member of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. And I have to admit, I don't even know any gentleman personally. Do you understand? Not personally. On the other hand, I would also like to highlight some fear of the left opposition about the capital to be strategic. Look, 68% of all capital is still strategic. It is said that this property will not be sold out just as some think. When someone quotes someone, they want to say something, then they usually say what suits them. And Comrade Duck, in fact, in his debate, he said what was right for him from my point of view. But I went on to say immediately: "...but the whole strategy is not just a matter of selling state investments." Point is, I'm not going to keep going, and I'm not going to quote myself. In this regard, it would be very useful for him to continue and say the same sentence, since it is quite different then. I'm not going to personally evaluate this strategy, I'm going to say, but in principle, I can say it's the best. Why? Because we've never had others before. We were already close to a classification, but because of the collapse of the then government, we didn't accept it. And now on your nose to judge how it sucks, I don't think it's responsible either. It is not responsible and I think that there is a basis, but it is that fear in the National Assembly, when we are all afraid of what will happen to state property – which is right – but we doubt those currently in power who have this responsibility to manage their assets in some way. Therefore, they have the appropriate mechanisms that we have adopted in this National Assembly. Now, the key question is why we're being bothered by the Triglav Insurance Company. The insurance company Triglav was strategic in the first building, without any additions, nothing was written next to it. Then, in a period of time, it turned into a "strategic addition" and then, according to our proposal, the amendment came back into strategic. And I'll also tell you the reasons why it's strategic, because some of you argued the exact opposite and you only had one proof that the Triglav Insurance Company would be sold and I might end up telling you who it is. 10 days before Vanja Vardjan, the rapporteur from Zagreb, told the Slovenian public what lies in the minds of some of the neighbouring countries to take over the Triglav Insurance Company, we told the Secretary of State, the Minister of Finance clearly and loudly that we do not want to go to this game and that we demand that the Insurance Office is Triglav strategic. 14% of the shares are sold to an unknown buyer. If you've listened to Van Vardjana, then you'll know for sure where those shares are. If I specifically touch the Triglav Insurance Company, why we insisted it was strategic, I'll say first, 110 years this insurance company is here in this area and has its own tradition. She's always seemed like a solidarity. The insurance company Triglav successfully operates and, of course, the interests after the purchase of the shares of the insurance company Triglav were expressed by the party, as I said before, Croatia and then by Poland and Germany. Probably, if the Insurance Company Triglav were a poorly standing company, none of these interests would show up. The insurance company Triglav is one of the most mature and healthy cores of the Slovenian economy. After the premium, it even plays a leading role in South-Eastern Europe. Its projected growth is 10% by 2017; it has a rating A. This is a quality, long-term capital that we should keep as a little girl of our own eye, and we would like to tear it apart. With the referendum held in Martino in 2007, Slovenia and Slovenia made it clear that we want to keep the Insurance Company Triglav. 71% of all voters who came to vote at the time voted in favour of staying the Insurance Company Triglav in Slovenian ownership. The funds transferred from the fund to the PPIZ, this happened in 2008, are of course key to the pension fund. I would also like to say that, over the years, including crises, the insurance company has created actually high profits. 58.7 million were created in the last year, the year 2014. Even in previous years, the crisis has always generated profits, and of course, the proportion of these funds has also been transferred to pensions. The stock value in 2012 was 10 euros, today the share of the Triglav Insurance Company is worth 28.5 euros. That's what I mean. He says a lot. This insurance company employs 5,000 people, which of course means a lot from a social point of view. Of course, not everyone is employed in the Republic of Slovenia. Desus also favours this investment strategically because of the State interest in the Triglav Insurance Company, totalling 62.56 %, of which ZPIZ has 34.47 % and SDH 28.09 %. Of course, there are questions about denationalisation, which was probably also one of the keys to strategic transfer going to strategicity with additions. Of course, in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners as well as in the party itself, we agree to review the actual situation after one year. If the situation shows, there is also this possibility that we can decide on another classification of the Insurance Office Triglav. Of course, if he finds himself a truly important strategic partner. And maybe in memory reawakening. The insurance company Triglav invests a lot in sponsorship, in sports. If we know these things a little bit, we quickly get to sports like basketball, such as handball, biathlon, Nordic, hockey and so on. I wonder if this owner would be a new owner, even to young people who can watch a sports event every year for free. One reason you had for the sale of the Triglav Insurance Company was that the insurance market was being consolidated and that the Triglav Insurance Company could hardly survive as an independent player in the regional field. "In my opinion, it is better for Insurance Company Triglav to play the role of regional observer in the network of insurance and not state-owned." This was the position that the Minister also defended for a while and that is advocated by some of the people who are talking about the fact that the Triglav Insurance Company should be sold. I will be alone for the strategy, especially because it has finally taken over the understanding that the Insurance Company Triglav has become strategic in this classification within the strategy, is said in the classification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mrs. Nada Brinovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u80	President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall! There is no doubt that the country is a bad master. This is somehow in all of this past, it has been said since Slovenia's independence, no doubt we have all come to know or have become convinced of it. The task of the State is not to manage businesses. The task of the state is to create conditions for investment, for development, for growth, for new jobs. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the withdrawal of the country from non-strategic enterprises must certainly be transparent and that the country must obtain maximum purchases for the purpose of this sale. This purchase should then aim at reducing the country's indebtedness and the stability of the pension fund. Also in our client, we are not for the headless sale of state property. We are looking for a good, best buyer or owner who will bring new technology into the company and develop this company, and, of course, very important, also new jobs. We also have this in the programme of the Slovenian Democratic Party. In line with the proposal for this decree, which we are considering here today, 91 companies or companies with a total value of around 11 million are defined in this decree. In accordance with its criteria, the government has divided all these societies, as we have already heard today, into strategic, important and portfolios. We have also heard that strategic investments are, after this so-called harmonised proposal 24, with a total value of 68% of the total value of all investments. Important investments are 21% and 18% of the total value of all investments. Last but not least, there are portfolio investments, which are supposed to be 46 and their value is 14% of the total value of all these investments. Of course, there is no way that we can pass through the fact, in what way and in what way the government is or predominant in classifying these investments into strategically important and portfolioally. The question to me here is whether there were mainly national, economic, political and perhaps even some private interests. In the debate at the Committee on Finance, a week, two weeks ago, it was clear that we do not have state-owned companies, but we have client companies and these companies work for the benefit of individuals or for the benefit of individual elites. I must say that I am truly afraid or more confident of this day and day. With such a distribution of investments between strategic, important and portfolios, where it is not possible to find some true logic or some uniform criteria, the findings on this committee further convince me of all of this. I think the coalition should be united before giving this decree to the public or to the hearing. Not that you have coordinated this strategy through the media, defined and expressed the wishes and criteria by which these companies are then classified as strategic, important and portfolios; we all know which companies this is about. Well, it is not possible to overlook the fact that all coalition parties do not agree with this strategy or this sale. The decree also mentions a comparison of the state ownership of enterprises between OECD Member States. After this comparison, Slovenia is one of those OECD countries with the largest share of state-owned companies; at least we are in the highest position somewhere. We can also conclude from this information that it is high time to find the right owners, it is said, such owners of companies that will manage these companies well. Unfortunately, I must say that this strategy also has many shortcomings. It is not possible to understand or answer the question of how we will achieve development and long-term competitiveness in individual companies, or how we will deal with them. When and to whom, and at what cost, we will sell this state property. We will probably sell this property to the one who will somehow blend or blend into this environment. Finally, the strategy fully, I stress, totally ignores the extremely important role of state property collected at the DUDB. I think that in the end we can find that we are not exactly satisfied with this strategy, not on the one hand or on the other. And the demand for these investments, or for these companies, will not increase or increase the value of these investments due to the adoption of this decree. In fact, I could say that Slovenia will be even less attractive to foreign investors, especially in view of the situation we have, it is said, to all this bureaucracy, which, I must say, complicates even such a simple process, to all these taxes that we accept or raise almost at every meeting of the National Assembly, to an unfavourable business environment and also to unstable policies. In doing so, I would like everyone to be aware that the new jobs are not created by the state but are created by investors. Finally, it seems to me that it is time for us to clear up once who those holders of responsibility have caused all these bad results in companies, and also what their interests were, whether they were their individual interests or the interests of individual stakeholders. It'd be about time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Ly has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u82	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Once again, everyone has a very nice greeting! I will continue where, in my presentation of the common position, I have also ended in some way, and I have run out of time to say things more or less. What Is Essential to Property? That it will be effectively managed to ensure that the responsible owner, the socially responsible owner, will ensure that these companies, which he owns, will also be competitive in the global situation. That's the most important thing. Because this is the only guarantee to preserve jobs and, of course, to create new ones. Anything else would the owner, if he bought one of the state-owned companies, have abolished a number of jobs or reduced the number of employees – yes, he would probably forgive those who did not meet those criteria and could not achieve the expected effects, economic ones, with that workforce. That's an essential criterion. Everything else is gonna be so much easier. Because if the company works well, if it generates profits and adequate accumulation, the inflows into our public treasury will also be appropriate, so to speak, in the state budget. I would now like to add so much more to this, that I fully agree that there are different views on this document and that this is perfectly legitimate. However, we must clearly accept the fact that without this document, which, I will say, is not ideal, but is acceptable, absolutely, without this document, SDH will be difficult to become a good controller. How will he justify the costs incurred? We see what's been going on so far. Instead of the positive public financial effects, the State was mostly forced to intervene with State aid. I don't think we should want that, and I'm sure no one wants it. I would not like to list here these companies that are in this group, which I have been talking about a little while ago. We must be aware of something else, namely that Slovenia is a small space. The Slovenian economy is extremely small compared to all others. That is why it is also extremely sensitive to any influence from abroad, as we have seen in the previous crisis, which seems to be still not over, but let us hope that we come from this abyss. That is why it is very much at risk or high risk that all these companies, which are also state-owned, I hope to say that they maintain their competitive capacity and survive in accordance with one normal business policy. However, it is still necessary to take into account when looking at the classification, the desire is that as many of these companies as possible be among those strategic companies, as there are quite a few, some 68% of this capital is located there. However, the question is whether we have the capital to go to increase ownership, so that these companies will also become strategic. Do we? As we all know — no. Does it also make sense to increase in some companies that are competitive in world conditions, say Krk? I don't know. I believe that a very bad signal would be out and the question is if the country could also provide the necessary resources to become a strategic owner. I also think about Gorenje. These are companies that almost fully generate their revenues on the world market, in a very small proportion, they can generate revenues on the domestic market, in Slovenia, because the Slovenian market is extremely small. And these exporters are the main driver of our economic, let's hope, even sustainable growth. It is only in this way that we can rest assured that these companies will be well managed so that they can then follow all these global requirements so that they can contribute to our joint development. I would also like to say that, however we look at this document, I think that it will still be a step towards the end of economic politics and that it will pave the way for effective corporate governance and entrepreneurship. This is the only way we can be at peace and in anticipation of a better future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Chairman. Respectable, all of you! Personally, I think that the strategy of managing capital investments in the country ahead is a very good basis for active governance, despite some or many criticisms. Of course, in my view and also in the view of the representatives of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, the essential objective is to achieve transparency and to manage capital investments in the long term. I see here a sort of balance between criticism on one hand and criticism on the other, namely, for the first time that it is a wild privatisation and, secondly, that it is a complete halt to all privatisation procedures. I don't think it's either way. In the very title, we write "capital investment management". My view on the document itself is that it is about managing the shares that you want to go to in management itself, you don't want to go to any resales of work, state, sometimes we have told this social property, but in the future it must be within the meaning of all four criteria, that is smart, thoughtful, prudent, and above all economically justified and economically sound. When I hear that the country is a bad owner, I'm afraid because this country, this eternal excuse to the country when we like it, this eternal excuse to the state, we apologize to the country when we like it when we don't like it, I think it's a little bit of a survivor. Of course, the state places for managers, for leaders both in terms of administration, in terms of human supervisors and these people should be held accountable. It is just so easy to say to a country that has a bad master who is unsuccessful, inefficient, intransparency, I think that everyone who runs a company that controls the management of companies has a name, has a name, and needs to be caricated here to get dirty or greased in a glass of marmalade, step on their fingers and answer for their actions. For my taste, it is unreasonable and inappropriate to talk about inefficiency, but above all to talk about social harm. It seems very important to me that after one year an inventory is made, that some audit of the efficiency of capital investment management is made and that it is seen what was wrong, what should have been better, and that the matter – I am talking about the strategy – will make sense. Now, whether you need to re-write a strategy or modify it in certain segments, or name it, I think it's just techniques. But after one year it will be seen where things are not likely to go in the right direction and where they should be improved. Personally, you probably share an opinion with me, most of you in the National Assembly to write this strategy earlier, and then there would be no question whether to include those 15 companies from the so-called first sales list, which are now, by the way, no longer 15, but some have already slipped or sold out. Then there wouldn't be a question. I think it would be right for the strategy to be made first and only then to go into privatisation or reselling processes. Now with this strategy, which is not great, which may not even be optimal for a lot of people, but it is here, it is before us, and I believe that a compromise will finally be reached in the overwhelming part of the representatives of this Assembly and of course we will accept it. Since you've been talking so much about the Triglav Insurance Company, allow me a few more sentences. We have actively worked and participated in the drafting of this act in our Group of Members, and this is very sincere and very targeted. We believe that insurance company Triglav, as stated in the first draft or in the first version of the strategy, is indeed a strategic investment and must also remain, according to colleague Jurša, unconditionally. Of course, there is no condition, however, that we can give strategicity, today, two days from now, and so on. Why? More than a century old tradition of insurance on our soil is in the insurance company Triglav. It is one of the largest in this part of Europe. Above all, what is essential is a financially stable institution, one of the most healthy cores of the Slovenian economy, a constant increase in the value of its shares, a profit is generated, dividends are indirectly paid, as a result come into the budget of the Slovenian economy and could be listed. And last but not least, it has been said that it invests enormously in sponsorships, sports, culture, and perhaps more. But it's also invested in the frame. My dears, it is also invested in personnel, which is essential. I think it's the biggest possible contribution from a socially responsible company, it's priceless. And if there is a possible sale, what can happen to these people? With these personnel, it can happen that they stay on the road, that all the effort, all the investment in the past, in order to maximize profits in the shortest possible period of time, has been completely raised. Finally, I hope that at the end of the year, the light of the world of a reputable demographic fund, which will ultimately allow for the long-term and balanced sustainability of the pension fund, is a vital part of the Social Security Fund. Perhaps we could talk about this demographic fund now, but I think there will be enough time, enough space, enough opportunities to convince with arguments – our ambition is – the entire national assembly. Finally, perhaps just one more reflection of her colleague, Hope Brinowski – is no longer here. She used to say that there used to be social companies, and today it's supposed to be state-owned companies, where the country has a dominant share. There are also institutions and other institutions. Of course there are no client companies, if there are any, Desus is not in this game. We have no Desus's business, but we care very much, and we care very much about all those state-owned enterprises where the state has such or different shares, not just companies, companies. I believe this smile on the other side to make sure I'm right. And Desus is very concerned about this, for all those state institutions, for all those institutions, for all those agencies where it works for the benefit of citizens and citizens, and especially for that institution that allows for the smooth payment of pensions to all those who have earned a pension through 30-, 40- and long-term retirement. And we will continue to do so. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u85	Thank you very much. I take it there's still a debate? Please sign up. Mr. Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u86	Dear colleagues and colleagues, there seem to be two worlds in this Chamber: on the one hand, a colleague and a colleague who supports this strategy, and thus somehow you are against the state going out of the economy to get out of the economy. On the other hand, the other side of the hall, which we consider to be the end of privatisation, is evident. If we just look at how it's distributed over here, we're selling the investments themselves. So if I keep going, I want to be actually constructive. But this strategy does not contain any basic concept of what we will do with companies that remain strategic. What we're going to do with these companies, some visions, long-term visions are practically gone. It's not even described. That is why I say that this strategy is a step backwards. See, if I have already mentioned the strategic companies, the 24 in the classification mentioned above, there are no plans – as I have already said, what we are going to do with these companies – there are no objectives for the management of these strategic companies, nor is there any description of how much growth will be in strategic companies, the profit that will satisfy. This is not defined by the strategy mentioned above. And it is hard for many, including me, to list either strategic or important companies that you have classified those companies that represent the political parties concerned or individuals, I repeat, an ATM. For we can see from the discussion of colleagues that the strategy was not based on some serious argument, some serious confrontation of opinions, because the opposition was withdrawn from preparation itself or was not invited along with what we regret, but it was actually shopping. After all, it seems that every minister or important member of this government coalition has received one company as a kindergarten and has defended it to the last as a strategic investment. Let's look at Terme Olimia, where the economic minister was before he became the economic minister, the president of the administration, the director. Tell me what's strategic is that the country owns thermals, slides, swimming pools, saunas. There's nothing strategic about that. The country should create good conditions for the development of tourism, not that it owns slides. And what's strategic is that the state owns an insurance company that comes into the pension budget or a pension fund of 10 million euros or, say, a strategy plan of 20 million euros this year. It's just a few miles from the entire ransom we're going to pay our pensions. Now it's a few miles away. For this reason, the strategy does not appear to be based on some serious discussion by the ruling coalition parties, or even more, by all parliamentary parties, but on the basis of buying, spinning members of the government coalition and putting on the trenches also at a price, as we could hear one of the presidents of coalition parties, placing a coalition on the line. I am also personally interested in this important investment, this sort of classification, so to speak, of dispersed ownership. With 25 plus 1 shares still in the hands of the country, the country will still have certain controls in these companies, which means that the country will still be the one that will change either the status, respond to the strategic direction of the company and, last but not least, actively engage in the management of the company concerned. Which of the domestic or foreign companies will want to buy a company that is designated by your strategy as an important company if it is unable to manage the company? He will be able to buy it, but at a lower price, because he will not have the opportunity to change even the statute, he will need the consent of the state and the purchase will fall or the company will not purchase it. As for portfolio investments or investments for sale, these are only a few percent significant. We can see from strategic investments that if we look at capital, there is a large majority or much more. On the sales list are companies that have been selling for a long time, the capital here in this case is lower, so I say that it is essentially the end of privatisation. This strategy is not the basis for policy to come out of the economy, out of economic governance. Instead of the ruling coalition, because we have actually waited a long time for this strategy and gratefully that the ruling coalition has drawn up this strategy. Once again, I have seen the split within the ruling coalition in preparation, when the parties' presidents in question were put on hold, I regret that perhaps the interest of Minister Marble and President Vlad was good, but at the cost of the ruling coalition he maintained the wishes of some party presidents, but I regret that in such a way the coalition was in such an important act as Minister Marble said it was a key document in managing capital investments, that the opposition was excluded from preparation itself. If it were a key document in your views, the opposition would be invited to join us and this key document, like all other key documents in this country, would be prepared together, discussed together, and you did not do so. This strategy should primarily inform the government that we are selling the company. The signal should signal that policy withdraws from corporate governance. But we're giving another signal, a signal that some of you have mentioned that the country will still be an active owner. You give this message to foreign and domestic investors because you only talk about these foreigners who are coming. Management will continue, as it seems, in the old tracks. They'll take care of those who will be in power, who will be sitting in the companies in question. Who will be a member of the Supervisory Board, who will be a member of the board, etc.; and the same applies to Insurance Company Triglav. Political personnel will be on the boards of these companies. I can tell myself that this is a negative business practice. Also from 2004-2008. Politics must move away from the economy, and some say so. Because of this strategy, I will not personally support it, because it allows political parties to continue to set up their own staff in businesses and, as a result, to exhaust these companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u87	Mr. Gardener, thank you very much. Mr. Jursha Franc has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. I'll be very brief, but I still think it's okay for me to replicate my fellow gardener. Actually, there are two things I'd like to put a replica on. First of all, my colleague Vrtovec, 10 to 15 reasons I said in my discussion why Insurance Triglav should be strategic. This same matter was repeated a little differently by Urosh Prikl. I wouldn't talk about it like that anymore. You probably only have one reason why not. Once again, we don't have our own people there, as you say, and we don't care. We have some different values and other interests from you. But if you're talking about strategic companies, then you don't belong to strategic companies, because it's an important company within a strategy or classification.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, chairman. 67. Article 67 of the Slovenian Constitution, which is a city constitution and provides private ownership of production assets, states that property must perform economic, social and environmental functions. This document, this non-document, as my colleague Trček would have expressed itself, is completely overrun by this Article 67 of the Constitution. Why? Because this is not a management strategy, it is a privatisation strategy. Worse! This is a strategy for reckless privatisation, it is said that everything goes in a completely different direction, like Miro Cerar, before he became Prime Minister, he promised in the elections. What these social objectives, which this strategy should contain, have already indicated in the United Left, which we have tried to remedy, at least on a few points, but our amendments on the Committee have been transported. The first of such social objectives is certainly a matter of added value and employment. The government has completely overlooked this, and the only thing that takes into account is the profitability here, the yield here. But profitability is kind of a meaningful category for a private owner who follows and is interested in profit. Profit is that part of the value created that belongs to the capital owner and all the rest is treated as a cost, as an unnecessary cost to be reduced. Here we are talking about the means for development, here we are talking about the means for local communities, here we are talking about the funds for employees. The country is following or is supposed to pursue a completely different interest in this new value that is being created in some four points. Firstly, because the salaries of employees are translated into an increase in domestic demand or the growth of gross social product. Secondly, because taxes and contributions fill the budget and our social treasury. Thirdly, because some of the costs these companies spend on suppliers also indirectly create additional jobs within the framework of the Republic of Slovenia. Fourthly, more employees in the parent company and suppliers are, of course, translated into less unemployment, into less poverty and also into less social expenditure. But no, this strategy goes completely beyond these criteria, as far as the values created are concerned and as far as the use of this value is concerned for some common good. The next category, which this strategy completely overruns, is extremely important for social development, is the question of economic democracy. Look, with all these publicly owned companies, we have a unique opportunity to set an example of co-resistance in companies. Here we can even take a step further from the existing legislation and establish a superstandard of codecision, very much like that of the metallurgical and mining industries in Germany or, as is the case in French state firms, where there are higher standards and practices than otherwise. In this context, SDH should commit itself to developing and encouraging decision-making because it has the option of deciding on statutes, but in this, a management strategy is not a serious word. While the Secretary stated on the Committee that these rights are governed by the law and that they do not need to be entered into the strategy, one wonders, of course, why this clause is found specifically in enterprises which are subject to privatisation. These claims about how this strategy, however, pursues these social objectives and how it also serves the economic democracy and the cooperation of employees, are in fact one big bluff because this part is explicitly limited to sales procedures only. These statements, just how these social objectives and the wider social public interest are taken into account in the strategy, are just one big fog, because this is simply not true for a short time. The third category to be followed here is the category of decent work. Somewhere in the strategy, state capital can be an instrument of economic policy. Certainly, it certainly does, but government capital can also be an instrument of social policy. New jobs, as do colleagues from the right opposition, are so often told, new jobs are the best active employment policy. At this point, I think we can agree. But what's happening right now is that the government promotes employment by subsidising private people, by reading subsidising private profits, which combines with a suitable private pocket, while at the same time holding 11 billion capital without employees, which is dead. Which company can work without employees – we know, none. And what's happening in parallel is that the Government is setting up working groups for recreational work instead of focusing on restricting and prohibiting employment through the agency, forced espection and other forms of economic dependence on criminal work in state-owned enterprises. In this set also, of course, fits outsourcing. But how did our Secretary of State comment on these concerns and suggestions in the United Left? I quote: "We come from the reality of a modern globalised market economy." End of quote. This may be the situation on the ground, but the position you have presented, Mr Secretary, as the Government's position, is a total capitulation. You are not questioning at any point the reality of the modern global market economy, which forces us from this emerging pre-carnation, to the further exploitation of employees, to the further espection and so on, instead of putting this into question, to put an end to it. No, we simply remove it and recognize it as an eternally unacceptable fact that we cannot influence, which is certainly not true. Here, on the issue of public-owned enterprises, development and so on, a special dimension is also the regional dimension, polycentric development, which, last but not least, covers rural areas. Not only is the strategy blind to employees, it is also blind to this regional development. The strategy does not define the objectives of undertakings operating or potentially operating in regions that are at risk. We have a very practical example, Terme Catež for the Government is not an important company, while Terme Olimie is considered an important company, although Terme Catež is twice the employer and integrates the bizel end, just as Pod Thursday integrates Kozjansko. Mr State Secretary Dragonja, I have a few challenges for you or I would like your comment on our request that the remaining companies on List 15 be classified according to the criteria of the strategy and that they are adequately available. Your official position at the Ministry of Finance is that the Zincarna would be an important company under these criteria. And secondly, Krka, Petrol, Gorenje should be important companies according to your own criteria, you yourself have confirmed this. By all substantive criteria, these companies belong to important companies, despite the reduced share. This is simply not an excuse for the State to have a smaller share in these companies, so that these companies are then completely arbitrarily excluded from being important undertakings, despite these substantive criteria. And then again, the third time, the Bank and the Bank of Celje are actually already united if we treat them as united. This comes into the category as an important investment that should not be fully sold out, and your comment, Mr Secretary, was that we could talk about it. So what I would like is for all of these observations, comments and comments from you. Now, as for the excuses for the pressure of the European Union, the dictatorship of the German euro, some commitments and promises of Angela Merkel, and even some of the servitude shown by our ruling political elite, I can only say sis semper tyrannnis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž German has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u92	Thank you, Madam President, for your kind greeting on my behalf, dear colleagues! Since independence, this debate has continued in some way on when to, if necessary, and whether policy must withdraw from the economy. In a way, if you remember well from the past the great and all-powerful liberal democracy, during that period the secretaries of the parties sat down, discussed, agreed on where they would put, set up which director would sell the company to whom they would sell something, and it lasted for 12 years. The government of John Janša took place, the first – the modus operandi did not change, but in some ways this accelerated because it had to be compensated in some way. And no offense, fellows, I'm trying to be critical of all of us, not just one. The Borut Pahor government has come and I speak here from experience. Following the lack of response of the cabinet to requests for acceptance by anyone, various uncles, aunts, from here also this phrase by Dejan Židan, have begun to appear, to answer the policy, not the individual, I will say lobbyists, interest groups that did not bear responsibilities, and have built the fate of our citizens and our country. If you remember correctly, just to remember, for this reason, the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption has been created, this is the law that concerns us daily. It is said that we must report at least lobbyist contact precisely because we were under constant pressure at the time; and that is the reality. In fact, as a society, as an inheritance from another period, we have somehow formed ourselves in this work, that it was something self-evident. I'm not going to talk about smallness here, about size. This was socially acceptable to us in the past until the time of crisis came, when these cakes were divided into small pieces, and in some ways this is also because we did not understand how serious this crisis was, we continued to want to behave as we were used to. That is why the Social Democrats, the Social Democratic Government, on the basis of the experience we had at the time, adopted two key laws. One was the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, as I said before, and we wanted to establish a so-called Capital Investment Management Agency. Remember, AUKN, which was immediately discredited by the media, stakeholders and so on. In fact, it was the first serious attempt, I'm going to say in some way an attempt based on the experience they've had in Norway. For they have taken decades to establish an independent body independent of policies that would work and that would also give the impression that it works independently in the interests of all of us. Let me just mention this because I was talking about how the majors announced, the directors announced, they expected to come into the cabinets and somehow get some hand support. Let me mention here that they were not just economics. Maybe you'll be surprised. Media editors were also dating, wanting, wanting to talk to the ministers, the Prime Minister, to get one shot at the shoulder and to say to them, "Yes, you're doing well, keep doing that!" By the way, those were our bonds up to a few years ago. And we need to avoid that. In fact, what we have on the table today is just another attempt to establish some balance in this area, and this needs to be called bob beans. In fact, I fully understand that we have some political, some substantive concerns, but I understand it as some other attempt to normalize our society. In fact, let each one do his job: let the policy be responsible for his or her work; let the economists, supervisors or anyone else be responsible for their work. I would like to point out some of the three elements here in particular. The elements of dissatisfaction. Sometimes, when the response is in some way, to some action to be a response to dissatisfaction, it can also give us an encouraging thought that if discontent is just a certain circle, it is only right that it continues with this initiative. In fact, I hear that, I will say, mainly the administrations of state services are dissatisfied, because now they will be directly responsible to the owners, given the classification and the strategy itself will clearly determine whether they are doing their job well or not. We are talking about the dissatisfaction of those who would like to be privatized quickly. This has already become an ideological game in Slovenia, who is for, who is not, and no one is talking about what a healthy path would be. It can be the Slovenian path, the way of compromises, to determine precisely strategically, as the strategy dictates what our priority is and what not, regardless of what we think sumarum is about whether to sell everything or not. Personally, I think that there is some right path for some intermediate path and the strategy suggests this. Nor are those who wish nothing to be sold to remain, as it is, said to maintain the status quo. We can now call this in some modern language confort zone, some comfort zone, where some director knows well, has good connections in politics, he will stay here, no matter what the results. I would like to highlight some other different aspects. The strategy changes something else, and it is that the country where the majority owner will be, must assume the role of an active manager who will not only be able to claim results but will also be able to help the company when it needs to. We often hear in Slovenia that the country is not a good owner. At times, when we were building our country and in the previous country, we had so much confidence, so much courage that we actually built these companies, but today, in 2015, we don't have this courage anymore, we're not so confident that we say we Slovenians are decent, no matter what globalisation, we fight every day. I'm sure it is. We can have good Slovenian companies, including those that are mainly state-owned or owned, but I think this is no longer a matter of ideology, but a matter of some self-confidence, whether we Slovenians are still able to shape our own destiny in some way. [[…]] I also deal with those who advocate privatisation – I don't mind if this reason is known for what purposes, if you know what the day will be after we sell something, or if we have more or less of it. This strategy suggests this. I am not saying that this strategy is a unique product of Slovenian mentality, but it is only a basis on which, as has already been said, we can make a revision, add some new elements and refine it over the year. Once again, I must point out that in Norway, as in a country that is generally known as a very democratic and successful country, it has taken decades for them to come to what we who come from a certain system, which is a certain one, I will say, such activities have allowed. Let me get this over with. How are we going to get to the finish line if we don't take the first step? That's how my word encourages us to do this. Nothing will be delayed, because we can still correct matters, but it is only a real step in the right way to make a clear distinction between the responsible in our country. That's why I'm going to support the proposal myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u94	Mr President, thank you for your floor. I would like to stress that the coalition would be aware that it has prepared this strategy and also a list of companies that are strategic, important or portfolio-oriented. Why am I stressing this? Because we hear again and again how responsible we are that Zita was sold to Telekom – as if Nova Slovenija had prepared a list of companies to be sold! First of all, I want to say that you insist on doing this to the end, and so I hear that if it does, we will change. This is exactly what reduces the value of businesses, precisely this wavering, because for a while we go to the intersection to the left, for a while to the right, and so we do not come anywhere and so do we really in Slovenian. So, stick to the direction, stick to the line, not to find out in the middle of the sale, because the public opinion of a sale is not favourable, but maybe you wouldn't sell it; and that's the same customer that you put on the list. This is exactly the same — I have already made this comparison several times — as if at the bouncer jump we would change our mind not to jump, and then crash into a cliff instead of a shorter jump. I wish that the following companies, which will be sold, will not be sold like Telekom, with an excuse that it is passed, but that it is not the right customer, that it is not the right value – and you have helped to reduce this value. And then no foreign country will eavesdrop. And I wonder whether that's why we don't sell, we don't want to sell something, because we won't, not us who aren't in power, but those who are, or won't have any more opportunities to get any information for political or other purposes. So, New Slovenia has not prepared this list, does not support this strategy, because we believe it is not well thought out. We would like some companies to be strategic or non-strategic. Clearly, the case of banks in which we have invested several billion has not yet studied us. We reiterate the importance of state-owned banks in a certain proportion. No, it doesn't matter if we have to stand up for them without the country benefiting from it. And also the Triglav Insurance Company, if the state has to put a billion $300 million into the pension fund annually – will the Triglav Insurance Company, with 10 million, really save the pension fund? I don't think so. That is why I do not want state-owned companies to be ATMs or parking spaces for certain personnel. And also, some MEPs have said something between the lines. Those in power have this responsibility, said Mr Jurša. Yeah, but you have to be aware of that all the time. You have decided who will be the supervisor in the state holding company, then leave it to the one who has this task to carry out the task to the end. This is how we go pingpong; once the government will decide who gets sold, the second time the holding company will decide – yes, let it do as the law says. Mr. Han said we wanted to sell everything to strangers. No, no, no. Thank God we have quite a few companies, Slovenian companies, which are good companies, but they are usually privately owned companies, because they themselves had to create this company with their own work, so they are also responsible owners. We want companies to be managed responsibly. And if you own a company, you usually manage it responsibly because you invested your own work and your own money in it. However, the state has shown itself not to be the most responsible in most cases because the managers of these companies are changing according to who is in power. That is why the country is not the most responsible. I agree, however, that we would have as many enterprises as possible whose owners would be responsible Slovenians. Also that we will see in a while whether the strategy works and then we will decide again, said Mr Han, as well as some other debaters. Yeah, it's right to do the analysis then, but not in the way we've previously found that we're going to the left at the intersection for a while and then we're not going anywhere. And that; any farmer who sells a cow — and this case I have already mentioned — will not speak out loud and stress all her weaknesses, as we have done with Telekom. No! No! When we decide to sell something, it is fair to say the advantages and weaknesses and stick to it, but not to reduce the value of a company by ourselves in the way that has happened to us. So, coalition, take the project all the way and stay one way!
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u96	Thank you very much. After almost a year of the new government, it is probably time for us to finally talk about a document that, hand to heart, should be prepared in accordance with the law substantially earlier. Today, however, I am somewhat disappointed when I hear a discussion about these Slovenian companies, because I feel we are talking about them as we are talking about sand in the sand. A little here, a little there, we're competing or you're competing, who's going to make a bigger push. And our property is everything but that. I would like to point out that neither ourselves nor our party is a proponent of the sale of all state property. More importantly, it seems to me that we should be aware of or at least act in such a way that we do not sell this property, because we do not know how to manage it, then we need to replace the operators and we can move on. Those companies that we have to sell, according to our assessment, must be sold, because we do not have the money that we could give to the growth and development of businesses and also to the new jobs that would come with this, of course. Although we are now discussing everything on the average, we are talking about the amendment of the United Left, which I would like to mention – I will only mention three companies, Krko, Petrol and Gorenje – to make a strategic one. Okay, I agree with you, too. Just tell me where you're getting the money to give the country a 50% share. Comrade Duck, Comrade Moon, any of the comrades gathered on that side, please tell us where we'll get the money. Don't sell people empty promises. Today, you can find out what empty promises mean by your role models in Greece. And tell us where we get this money, and I will immediately support your amendment. Loud and clear: how much will it cost and where will we get this money? Regardless of the fact that we will not support this strategy, I want and want to get an answer regarding the Triglav Insurance Company. I don't have any problem getting the wrong idea that Insurance Triglav stays strategic. If the coalition were to sit together a little earlier, this debate would not be at all because it would be categorised as it would be. We have a feeling that this has now taken place on the basis of political purchases, but tell me what you will do with strategic investment without voting rights. So, if I simplify it a little bit, we can also sell it to minority shareholders, because, ladies and gentlemen, we do not have the right to manage this company. We'll make a take-over offer; if so, where the money from, if we don't do it, what's the next way. I don't get a repeat of that answer. You don't know, we don't know, we don't have an idea, but I think that's a real problem. Desus, however, will not be helped by perseverance if those who have voting rights make a different decision. This is how we really want to get this answer and, of course, I cannot go beyond the procedure you are taking in the National Assembly, a respected coalition. I will repeat once again what the purpose of the law was to adopt a strategy, I can say, even in the broadest possible political consensus, and then we cannot change it every year at the request of anyone. Now you are going exactly this way; more than one year later, you have even announced a revision of this strategy. So even if I paraphrase it a little bit, it can change everything in a year. I don't know why it's such a big point to this document. And once again, I would like to say that the purpose of the adoption of the basic law, and also of all changes, was significantly different. Because we have not received the answers to all or at least the vast majority of the substantive questions we have been asking since the beginning and, in particular, the way we adopt this strategy, our strategy will not receive our support. But I really want to get an answer to the question: What about Insurance Triglav, how are we going to solve this? And second, of course, from the colleagues in the United Left: Where will we get the money for these three companies proposed in the amendment to be strategic? I think we're aware that it's not a small deal, but it's a big pile of money, and I'll be happy to answer that the United Left has the money.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u97	The word has magic. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u98	Thank you, Madam President. It is interesting to hear a debate where a member of a party who has moved to the government advocates a strategy, and the president of the same party who is in the opposition says he will not support this strategy. But that only testifies to the confusion of the document before us. In fact, the strategy is a document which, on its very name, should spell out what Slovenia and Slovenia want to do with their state assets. The most interesting thing about today's debate is that most of those parliamentary benches are missing, where in the case of state property, the most loud about so-called silver, family silver. Today, when we are actually talking about this debate, they are not involved. Understand who can. Otherwise, this document is only addressed as a strategic document. In fact, it's all before that. By the way, he's a contradiction to himself. Let me just fly over a few things like that. See, in the introduction, the legislator or the drafter of the law or strategy says that the importance of adopting this strategy as a basic document for the functioning of SDH is the responsible corporate governance of state assets following the OECD guidelines. Now we remember how this proponent of this strategy, the government, acted in the case of the sale of Telekom, a company that is already on the list of fifteen companies for sale. Take a look at the principles of corporate governance under the OECD. Point 1, providing the basis for an effective corporate governance framework. And you will find that that Sunday government meeting was in violation of these OECD principles. Now the same government, which itself runs counter to the OECD provisions, says that this document, which it has adopted, is based on these principles. Come in. "The governance strategy is therefore a fundamental document to ensure independent, professional, efficient governance and separation of functions from the country as the owner of capital investments, thus preventing conflicts of interest." You have this in your introduction, and at the same time with this document, the government is de facto suspending privatisation. So, on the one hand, it says that it will separate and prevent conflicts of interest between the government as owner and as manager, while privatising only 14% of the state property – the one we still have. And go ahead. In this study, it notes that, compared to countries – or this OECD – the financial sector in Slovenia comes out mainly of 33% of the value, while the average in the OECD countries is 24%, adding "... but this is not the case of banks, but mainly insurance companies and pension companies". Therefore, it notes that due to State ownership in insurance companies Slovenia exceeds the criteria which are a credible argument for this OCED strategy, while also placing Insurance Triglav among strategic investments. So she's going against herself. And go ahead. "The share of capital of companies in which the State has a majority share according to the data of Umarja, including companies with which the State has more than a quarter share, shall be 30 %. This makes Slovenia one of those OECD countries that has the highest share of state-owned companies... " Once again, I stress that she will also hear an empty tick, "with this Slovenia is one of those OECD countries that has the highest share of state-owned companies." It's from government material, from the strategy we have today. That's not what we wrote, that's what the government wrote. At the same time, it proposes to privatise 14%. Let's take a look at this table. Sweden, which likes to be represented in Slovenia as a social, social, and in some ways also state ownership, has 8%. Greece, which will have to form a 50 billion-dollar fund for the sale of state property – do you know how much it has? Five percent! Slovenia, however, has 30%, most of which is among all Member States. And what is a government action – a strategy that only privatises 16%! Everything else with various distortions is kept mainly at the level, such as those who do not want to sell, and makes them more complicated by not allowing the focus of ownership shares. This is where we come to this Triglav Insurance. Isn't that interesting? The Minister of Finance makes it clear that Insurance Triglav is not a strategic investment and there is no reason for that. Then a few weeks after that, we read it in this strategy. And then this is where the Secretary of State defends it. This document, prepared by the Government, states that in OECD countries state ownership in companies is justified in the following cases; natural monopoly, original operator, incomplete contracts, industrial policy and development strategies. None of these arguments are met by the Insurance Company Triglav! Moreover, the same government, i.e. the drafters of this strategy, writes in point 2.2.5 of the Insurance Strategy: "The Insurance Sector Strategy notes that in the group of Europe's largest insurance companies, the state is the solely dominant owner of insurance companies..." Only an exceptionally dominant owner of insurance companies! Then I don't care, you've got nothing to do with this proposal where Insurance is a state-owned or strategic investment. Mr Jurša explained earlier that he had listed a number of reasons for this. None of the OECD guidelines were cited. It is true that he indicated that the Insurance Company of Triglav is sponsoring football companies, ballistic societies, probably also a society for mental development, or something like that. But listen, is this the reason why we, the legislators, should justify transferring Insurance Company Triglav during strategic investments? If it's for Mr. Jursho, for me, I'm sorry, it's not! For the purpose of the insurance undertaking is the conclusion of insurance, the conclusion of insurance and the management of its business, in order to become a manager of insurance in the region. However, if each year has to pay so much and so much tax by printing dividends because there is a hole in the budget, at the same time providing money for the pension fund, then it is indeed what some say that they understand state-owned companies as ATMs to provide their political platform and to provide, I don't know, defending their interests. Allow me to walk to the European Commission's document until the report on the country of Slovenia 2015. I'm talking about him for one simple reason. Because the argument in this strategy was taken from this document by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. If you're looking at graphs, they're copy-paste from this document. However, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia gives a completely opposite answer from the findings made by this European Commission document. See, this European Commission document says that state-owned or state-controlled companies still pose significant fiscal risks. We have just recapitalised banks, according to the European Commission, State ownership - on a specific case in Slovenia - means additional significant fiscal risks and the government comes with 14% as an answer. And go ahead. Companies owned or controlled by the State are less productive than comparable companies in Slovenia and other Central European countries. That is not what I said, that is not what the SDS said, that is what the European Commission said in a document which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has as its basis for the preparation of the strategy. Next, state-owned or state-controlled companies are among companies with the highest level of indebtedness compared to comparable companies in Slovenia and other countries of Central and Eastern Europe. It's the same author again. Further, state-owned or state-controlled companies are less effective in using their funds than comparable private-owned companies in Slovenia and in other Central and Eastern European countries. But even though the government has read it, it is stubborn with its unstrategy. Let me get this straight. In the same document, I will read the first sentence: "The country's involvement in the economy is still high and has had significant fiscal and economic consequences for Slovenia of more than €13 billion since the start of the crisis." More than €13 billion means 3 rehabilitations of the banking system, as we have done recently. State ownership. State ownership – three times the bank's recovery. This is €85 per month for each of the two million between 2008 and today. This is the direct effect of national interest. But if we just count this amount on those who work, 800,000, that's 210 euros. And the distinguished Desus – only two representatives remained in the Parliamentary Chamber – the respected Desus, you who are fighting for these most endangered, or, say, the respected SD – where there is none, except the presiding officer, who performs his duties. Look, 210 euros for someone with a minimum wage is more than a third of their salary. The price of national interest from 2008 onwards was EUR 210 per month for each of them. This is the price of state ownership, this is the price of bad governance. Not in my opinion, in the European Commission's reports. And here you want the status quo and the extension of this situation to continue to be – what? Over the next 7 years, this cost is another 210 euros? Look, talking about the public investment management strategy and then coming up with a proposal that the state will try to realign itself in 14% of these investments, is an unworthy word strategy, is a completely non-strategic document, is contrary to what the European Commission recommends, and as I can understand it, this strategy will obviously be linked only to the consensus and voting machine of the ruling coalition on and on the matter which is owned, respected, by all of us, citizens and citizens. It is therefore once again one vote of the ruling coalition for some common good, but it will not be bloated on the basis of this strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u99	Thank you. Mr. Tillen Christmas has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. Today's debate has somehow shown that we really need this strategy. One of the reasons is precisely the one that is crucial, and this is to ensure a uniform signal of policy what we want. Since, on the one hand, if we have such options to make the country more indebted, to increase capital to develop companies, to maybe make them even cooperatives, then on the other hand, we have to sell everything or the bulk of it, and here comes the question of those who control these companies and those who run these companies. What's going to happen to them? It means how to draw up a medium-term plan, how to draw up a long-term plan. What's going to happen to them? Can they expect some capital from the country to develop? Can they expect that they will not get all the dividends, that there will still be something left for development? Can they start looking for strategic partners? Are they getting ready for sale? What are they supposed to do with themselves? In fact, when a company decides to sell, this usually takes two to three years. At that time, sometimes even the administration changes to that end, but at that time the administration does exactly that, it prepares for sale. At that time, he does not deal with strategic issues, he deals with short-term issues: how to improve those indicators that will increase the price of such a company, how to sell what potential investors or buyers are not interested in, say, I don't know, holiday capacities, that, what, the third is said, are not dealing with what they base on the medium and long term, and that is business. [[…]] For this reason, it is still important, due to the stability that the strategy is ready, that everyone somehow knows which way it will go. In doing so, I think we have taken a very good step: there are 16 criteria, each of which somehow has its own weight, on the basis of which there has been a classification. And it has been repeatedly said that these companies are 46 portfolios, 21 important, 24 strategic ones. Before that, there was a speech here that was important or irrelevant and so on. All companies are important in this country. After all, they bring jobs, bring a social product, finance social, other cash registers and so on. But in this place it was necessary to draw a line somewhere and decide what is strategic for us, what matters, what is portfolio. So it is not strategic or important for this country that we should hold this, but that someone else would probably be better able to manage it, that we will also use the part of the ransom that we get back to, to repay the loans, to reach the final stage that there will be no more 13% of our budget, the state budget, representing interest payments, which is, on the other hand, a development problem. Then, if we move forward, there was a lot of talk about one such question, whether it was easy; then whether we could do it more quickly, or whether we could do it better. As far as simplicity is concerned, such a strategy has not been adopted so far despite the many efforts of many, including those in this Chamber, as far as we are concerned, and the following has been found. That — not fear, but butcher’s slaughter — has already taken place in every individual company. It was when they talked — not about how to manage it, how to improve management, but about whether to sell it or not. That's how we came up with another list, but those 15 companies, when they say they're shopping here and so on. I don't know, for those 15 companies, it's a little different. As far as SMC is concerned, we do not take such matters lightly. When a state summit decides on something when this national assembly decides on something, it is necessary to stand behind it. And so I hope it will be in the future. This strategy is also due to this end. Then, in terms of whether it could be faster or easy, I think, my colleague Jurša mentioned the fear of what would happen to state property. The worst part is that we go into some kind of cramp out of this fear of doing nothing. As a result, the value of such companies is falling, the leaders of these companies do not know what will happen to them and what they can count on from us. And if there's nothing to hope for and no strategy to be adopted, then somehow we're going to go into some field, when really year after year we can see how we're going to impoverish this state property and in the end there's actually nothing left. As far as the audit mentioned is concerned, one year from now, the strategy cannot change so quickly. I fully agree, the strategy cannot change at the annual level, but it is finesse if certain matters need to be settled and they need to change and be refreshed regularly. Perhaps then we will complement some additional goals, etc. The first step, to sort out, what is strategic, what is important and what is portfolio, is done. The fact is, however, that every strategy – perhaps, at least I hope – will be better on our part too. But right now, as it is, I think one colleague has already said, it's the best, because it's the first and only, and there hasn't been any other. If I move on to some of the issues concerning the comments that have been given, in particular as regards project cooperation, that it is not – I mean by my colleagues from the United Left. Nevertheless, I think that we have also worked with them on certain matters, including the project called LGBT, as we have done. I think that if the SMC hadn't gone along with it, and there were others, probably up to what they somehow wanted, they would never have come, at least not in this constitution. Then, if we go to look forward to a worthy one, I think we have worked closely with a lot of people in this National Assembly, which is the same as the fiscal rule, etc. [[Incomprehensible]] There are few of these things when we worked together well. But it is true that sometimes there is a will for you more, sometimes there is a will for you less, but it cannot be the basis for those — we have a very good band called Zmelkoow on the Coast or Primorska, which has a piece of Goldfish. You can't go around the pumpkin once, and that's a new world, as their chorus says. Things – we cooperate, we work, we can't forget this every time, every time there's a new project, we start again some attacks, even though we've worked very well yesterday. Then there was talk about these customer companies about ATMs, etc. We, as far as SMC and I are concerned, are the least time here in politics and one of the key things you would like is that those with this information come with them on a day-to-day basis. Last but not least, if you know about this, it may also be a crime in certain cases, and in view of the function that belongs to us, we are obliged to declare such an act, not only by speaking a little around or by inventing something in our mind. If anyone knows about something like this, specifically, he has to point it out, say it, and I am very happy to think that we will support it here in this national assembly. I think that SMC is also clearly in the position, if such things happen, they need to be disclosed, solved and reached by an epilogue. Not in the sense that this is only found on some blog, but an epilogue in a judicial sense and that it is actually revealed. We do have, if we go after the alphabet to go from Abank to Slovenian railways, we will look into whatever field should be included or if anyone has any information, let them go with them on the day. Given that we are now talking about these amendments, I must admit that I will not support these amendments alone. The reasons are relatively simple. As far as the first one is concerned, as far as we are concerned to include fifteen companies, we are going in the same direction that it was, I think, already published on the other side. We're just preparing the ground for a new scandal. As far as this point is concerned, I think that, while it is perfectly okay, it is legitimate for someone to draw up their proposal for a point, but given what I have studied and also what we have been working on with the SMC, I do not agree with such changes. So, I insist on the point we gave ourselves. As far as this connection between Bank Celje and VIP banks is concerned, this is not yet a fact. And the cases that haven't yet are said to be in some way implemented, say, in some court register published, I don't think it's appropriate to put them in some half-breed into strategy. The last one may be – I think – on the side of the Gardener – that we do not yet know what to do with these companies or that we do not understand anything yet. Now, first of all, we saved that part I said, so it's the ownership part. There was no strategy so far. There are many other strategies missing. This will have to be prepared now, and I think everyone would like to, even in the SMC, anyone else here to be prepared by a number of these strategies at the time of the fat cows, when it was easier to do some things when the political consensus was easier. We work at times that are not so pleasant, but we will bring what we have promised to the coalition, this strategy to an end. I thank all those who will support us in this. At the same time, I thank a number of constructive critics, because I think that, after all, there have been quite a lot of them on both sides or on all sides of this hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u101	Thank you. Mr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u102	Thank you. All those who accompany this meeting are respected! As we can see, the strategy itself has a lot of shortcomings and is still incomplete in my opinion, so a number of changes should be made. If we look at what the main points of reference are, I could say that we have to answer where we want and what we will do with the means we will acquire. That's what's strategic. If we look at the OECD guidelines, we can see that there is no reference to the fact that the state has to withdraw from ownership, but they advocate that we must have good governance and that we must follow the principle of corporate governance. Now, if I look at everything in a broader context, I see that we have started to build only a matter somewhere in the middle: we do not have a developed development strategy for Slovenia and we do not have a defined policy on which they adopt a strategy, for example. industrial development policy and management policy. The main shortcomings have already been exposed, and I would point out commitments by operators, supervisors' commitments and contractors' commitments. If I move forward, unclear and untransparent performance criteria. If we compare ourselves with the European Union and with countries, how we will measure this success and what is happening with the conclusion of international alliances, because we know that everything that is happening in small Slovenia is necessarily linked to European space. If I look at the main functions, these are ownership functions and management functions. There have been references to Scandinavian models, here I come from, say, countries like Norway and Iceland, where the main thing is what kind of people they put on these functions. It all depends on people and whether we trust them. People in these countries just trust them. The fundamental objective is to raise people's standards. And we must follow these commitments. Now, I wonder if this is a management strategy and if I look at two companies, Telekom e.g. And Ljubljana Airport, which carried large dividends, and if we go to a management strategy, would expect us to strengthen the management function in these companies and have as much dividends as possible, as this will then be known in the standard of people. If I finish, we're running out of politicians. We are the ones who need to create policies and Slovenia as such to a large extent to produce products that we do not need and that are produced and sold cheaply to developed countries, and from developed countries we import products that we urgently need at high prices. I hope this changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u103	Mr. Marko Ferruga has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. It is clear from today's debate that we all have certain concerns and certain dilemmas and that this strategy is one of such very important issues for all of Slovenia. But we must not forget the next fact that this is the first time; for the first time that we have received such a job in 25 years of our Slovenia, that we have defined at least some criteria, some starting points, some classification of investments, which are important, but also that some direction has been given, what this country wants, so that it has some basic tool to be active and responsible at the same time. Why am I saying this? We can be critical, we can be obvious that it is a sale or that it is not a sale, we can see all sorts of things, we can be negative about all of this, but we must not go past that this is some basis on which it is possible to work, on which all of this state property, which is still left, is somehow classified and have some review. We must not be satisfied with standing in a position to exchange, for today’s world is dynamic. I think that's a step forward. Clearly, we need to be critical, we need to fix certain parts. And if we live in this world, which is extremely fast, it changes enormously, and I don't see the problem of seeing in this strategy that certain directions are wrong to correct them. The main purpose of all of this is also to raise the level of corporate governance, which we forget, because we did not actually have this culture or it was not taken into account to a certain extent as it should be. It is also about the fact that the country will try to increase capital returns through this document, which is not negligible, and the efficiency of investment management. Let me finish. What is written in this document is matters that show guidance and guidance and should also be taken in such a way as to facilitate leadership. And clearly, the pre-defined ownership policy removes the need to interfere with the government's ongoing management of capital investment companies and ultimately measures the efficiency of management periodically, given the pre-set objectives achieved, which is also of no doubt important importance. I therefore support this document and repeat it, it needs to be corrected, it needs to be finalized, but I think it is some basis on which we can build. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u105	Thank you. Mr. Magg has the word. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Well, I have a different opinion than a few predecessors and colleagues that this strategy will change anything and that on the basis of this, if the National Assembly accepts this document, what will change. Nothing will change because of this document. It is also today a delusion, as some say, that ownership is not regulated today. The ownership is completely regulated today. The State is the owner and the State is the assembly. And we know who the so-called country is talking about, which is probably with audiences, viewers, and so on a little bit undetermined about who is actually in charge here. It is known to operate at the end of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, if so specified. It is known that certain companies are authorised by the State. We still have them today, they were Kad, and the Court was a special management company and so on. And the problem with these companies was that they spoke contrary; one decided to sell, the other decided against sales, and both companies were state-owned, and both companies had a share in some company. This is how everything is defined and defined today, and this document will not change much about this. It is also a fact that everything has been defined in the past and, finally, we also had in the past a strategy of governance, privatisation and so on. One of these strategies was called the National Interest Strategy. This national interest, which has been "set" by certain people who have determined this national interest, has actually caused us to find that we have poor governance in the country, that procedures are untransparent, that this makes Slovenia in a poor position to avoid Slovenia in investment and so on. And there has been this national interest for a long time. He may have most come to terms by starting in some new age, developing the country and so on when it came to the so-called privatisation of the Union brewery, Laško and so on. At that time, this national interest was demonstrated in all its size and policy, which was behind this national interest, where this policy of national interest also led us to the fact that in 2011, 2012, 2013 there was no interest in any cooperation with companies in Slovenia. And it was Mercator's first sale and then it was a national interest in how to sell under a stock table or buy some shares by state-owned companies – and it was a national interest, for example, in banking and so on. Of course, Mercator was not sold at the time, but was sold three years later at three times the price, probably also some interest and some strategy of someone. And these strategies were in Slovenia in 25 years as many years as you want; partial strategies, which, of course, he led, if you want, some major headquarters in the name of national interest. Here, of course, customers and customers have acquired so-called state property, through privatisation and so on. So talk about that there was no strategy for 25 years in all of these errors – I don't buy it; it was a strategy, untransparent, and it was on behalf of an option, on behalf of a policy; but in this case, on behalf of the left policy that was driving this property, just like it was driving, and of course it also brought us to where we are today. Of course, then all attempts to make this transparent property were worse. Here, of course, we can talk about establishing the AUKN and more transparent business and so on and so on. But it was all somehow misleading or because there were not enough solid foundations or because there was too much interest and too little wealth. And too much clientelism, companionship and, of course, total impossibility. Now, I'm going to say, we've come up with a document that describes the state's property, as far as it's left, to evaluate it at book value and says, that's it. In addition to the 15 companies we already have, classify companies as strategic, important and portfolio companies. All some of my predecessors, of course, speak; for example, Uroš Prikl speaks about how politics has nothing to do with this. At the same time, due to the arrival of Insurance Triglav during strategic investments, the coalition almost collapsed. Because Desus, as a member of the coalition, demanded that Triglav be a strategic investment. Not the criteria, not the professional criteria and not the criteria set by the Ministry of Finance and so on. No, outside of the criteria, Insurance Company Triglav has made a strategic investment beyond all of these criteria or has made little or no adjustments to these criteria. Not to mention that this is not about the influence of politics. I wouldn't be talking about this right now if it wasn't there on the other side of the curse on how unpolitical this is now and how transparency is now and how we're going to do it. But because Desus' representatives are talking about how unpolitical this is, and at the same time, almost the coalition would fall apart because of it. This is how I don't believe it, and I just want to be personally consistent here, not on the one hand talking about non-politicality, and on the other hand, I just want to make political decisions so that something is made. That's not really how you drink water. The second question is how we managed this state property – those who had a national interest. Bad! Worse than managing similar companies in some other countries, comparable to Western European countries. Why bad? Due to the lack of transparency, because this policy was also an object that was drawn up in different ways by which profits from these companies or revenues were financed by certain political projects, political parties, and, of course, this was untransparent. And why hasn't a strategy been adopted 20 years ago? Because there was no interest and because it was a policy of national interest. It's been a major strategy for 20 years. And why are we still relying on state property, why do we all say it today and finally say, look, state property, this is important, the state has to have strategic ownership and so on? Because of this, there are still mangers for certain interests, non-transparent, clientelistic, social and so on, that some of these companies will be obtained. Not get in the sense of, I'll say, I don't even have to give any money, but someone there knows someone, some maid here and there and so on. Because if a foreigner comes, if a private, domestic private owner comes, then he doesn't have to listen anymore, then he's the owner and he doesn't have to listen to politics. However, if it is in state property, yes, but it must nevertheless respond directly to the call of the Minister, or the President of the Administration, or the President of the Supervisory Board. The foreigner does not have to pick up the phone because of this or because the domestic private owner is not burdened with it after all. He doesn't have to do what someone tells him, because after all, the Minister or Prime Minister is the representative of this state property – or the Secretary of State, however, I don't mean anyone here personally. That's how it was done. Thus, of course, the criteria of subjectiveness and business become untransparent from this point of view and actually becomes that some, including some political parties, some groups, lobbyist groups, more than this company; because it advertises more on national television, for example, or on national radio and so on. It's all connected then. So now, of course, the question is whether because we have this paper, it will be different. It won't be any different! It won't be any different. It's gonna be something else. It's gonna get bigger. The confusion — Why? This will cause confusion because this simple government is trying to be in the Slovenian state holding company, and now it will be the manager, who can actually be the seller now and so on, that this government will put up new supervisors. She just didn't make it. Another attempt, we have adopted at this meeting a change in the agenda, and this is the appointment of supervisors in the Slovenian State Holding. Well, the government doesn't have a happy hand here, but the government here, it looks like it's hard to do. Then there were questions about what this all-powerful state and state-owned enterprises would do. Are they going to hire more for this? At present, it may be because it will be a political imperative to hire unjustifiably or without any economic or economic need for additional employment. And of course, trade unions will be able to exert more pressure, not only on supervisors, directors and so on, but they will also be able to pressure ministers to get more employment, more employment and so on – for a short period of time. In the medium term, it will have to be recapitalised as banks; then taxpayers will pay for all of this. And probably these jobs will be untransparent and so on. So I think here with this paper, as my colleague Ferlug said, I'm telling the papers, something's not going to happen much, actually nothing. The fact that we have classified these companies as strategic, important and portfolio companies has not yet happened. And until SDH works, the government wants to have new supervisors, with new supervisors — and nothing. I'm not saying SDH doesn't work today. SDH also works today, because other supervisors and the government don't like these supervisors, so now it's changing them. I don't know why he's actually changing them. Because it's a new marriage, anyway, because it has to be made for a new marriage. From this point of view, if we look at it, there will be nothing new. If we look at another issue, whether all these companies will be better managed. Given that there are no objectives, given that there is no strategy for individual companies, given that there is no industrial policy, given that there is not actually a model of corporate governance, which is, of course, difficult, because we also have different companies – I don't think so. I don't think much of this is going to happen, and that's why I'm not too afraid there's going to be any sales. I'm not talking about sales, because sales are always at market price, but if there's a subjective price for someone too low, it's too low. However, there is no great demand for Slovenian companies, ladies and gentlemen today. I don't think there will be any more in the future with such a strategy. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, as has already been said, we will not support this, and I personally believe that there is no reason to support such a strategy.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u107	Thank you. Mr. Magg has the word. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u108	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! In front of us is an important document in the National Assembly, the State Property Management Strategy. Here we are disappointed in the Slovenian Democratic Party; we are particularly disappointed at the attitude of the Government of Mir Cerar and the coalition that it has not decided to step forward to invite the coalition or opposition to prepare this document. The fact is, the government is responsible for the management of state property, but it is not government property. In view of all the promises made before the elections, especially the modern centre's parties, and then the calls for cooperation with the opposition, that we are disappointed here and that we expected an invitation to draft this document. It is true that the Secretary of State and his team spoke several times in the parliamentary groups, but this was all a post-festum. When I read this strategy, the Slovenian Democratic Party at the time had a number of comments and a number of proposals to improve this document, but nothing has been done; but the coalition insists on its own and has sent a document to the National Assembly as it is. If defined in investment classifications and in particular in sales procedures, which companies are defined as strategic, which are important as portfolios, it could be concluded that an important part of privatisation in Slovenia is actually stopping. What is more worrying to me, however, is the fact that the development of Slovenian companies is halted. We have repeatedly warned that the main starting point, what is being sold and what is not, should be in particular two criteria: the first criterion of the state of public finances in Slovenia and the obligations of the Slovenian State Holding under two key laws, namely the Denationalisation Act and the Law on Victims of War and Post-war Violence. And not one of those numbers is in this document. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we also pointed out to the Commission on Public Finance Supervision and to the parent committee that addressed this document that the proposed classification of Slovenian State-owned holding company would not be able to pay the obligations imposed on it by this law. This warning was overlooked, and last but not least, the president of the SDH administration said to the cameras that the Slovenian State Holding under the proposal for such a classification would be highly likely that the liquid assets would not be able to meet these obligations. Last but not least, the main evidence of this is that the Slovenian State Holding issued a five-year bond of EUR 100 million a while ago. Dear Secretary of State, I would expect your answer here: Where were the reasons why the Slovenian State Holding issued the bonds? Does this mean, in fact, that it has also come to the conclusion that this classification does not provide for the current settlement of its obligations both in the short and medium term? The same classification – some say that it is sold too. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have never been in the position that Slovenian state property must be sold in full. However, we are in favour of the State gradually and in a transparent manner withdrawing from business and, above all, taking into account two criteria, this means SDH obligations and the state of public finances. If you look at which companies are classified as portfolios, we can find that this is a small investment or for firms in difficulty, or for companies that have been sold unsuccessfully for more than ten years. Here I would say that none of our proposals or comments by the coalition have been taken into account. This classification foresees that the majority of important Slovenian companies will be held in state ownership. Where do we see the problem here? We see above all in development, because the fact is that the state of public finances speaks the opposite. Slovenia is actually in debt from year to year, this debt is increasing and the case is, for example, already in Telekom or the Triglav Insurance Company itself, that if these companies need development funds and not only development funds, if these companies want to remain competitive, as they are today, they will have to invest in development in the future, and there is a need for additional funds in the future. I am interested in the Secretary of State: How will the State provide development funds for these companies? Hypothetically, if Telekom is not sold, we know that Telekom, if he wants to stay a player on the market, is competitive, that he will have to receive about 300 to 400 million additional funds in the short or medium term; or if the Triglav Insurance Group will develop, he will need additional capital. Where will the State be able to provide funds in such cases? Now, at the very document of the strategy, we believe in the SDS that this is a fundamentally flawed document. This document mainly lacks the key emphasis: how companies will be sold; whether there will be a strategic partner or investment funds to be sought here; what will happen to companies where the country does not own itself; whether the country will connect with these owners or not, or whether it will go to a joint sale or sell itself. We have never received an answer to these questions. These answers are not even part of the strategy itself. What will be done with the purchases — an important thing! The purchases that will come from those few companies that you will sell – what will they be for? Will they be designed to reduce Slovenia's indebtedness or anything else? Then there is not a single word about the accounting guidelines themselves and accounting standards. We have heard many times that the key problem of state-owned enterprises is the evaluation of certain investments. For me it is unacceptable that, for example, SDH values Krka according to its methodology, when it evaluates it according to its methodology, and it is a mere circus due to stories that then one and the other state-owned company can actually "bilda" balance. At the very least, it should be written in the document that companies managed by the Slovenian State Holding within, say, six months or one year are all converted to international accounting standards; this is not the case. And it already says in the law that SDH must apply international accounting standards, that is true, but this law was written already in the time of the government of Janez Janša, and what about companies managed by SDH. It's not here. We have noted this and the State Audit Commission has also pointed out this issue at one of the meetings of the Committee on Finance. But what is at least the most personal surprise for me in this strategy is the dispersed ownership. Here I would really ask the Secretary of State to tell you where this proposal of dispersed ownership came from in certain companies. Did he come from the Ministry of Finance or came from some coalition partners? We have already heard in one of the debates that this is supposed to be the proposal of the Social Democrats. Look, folks, with our property scattered, we will ourselves put a large backpack on our backs, because the fact is that the state budget and SDH will also get a substantial lower purchase in the case of sales, and these companies will never get strategic partners. But I do know where the reason for the dispersal of property is. The reason for the dispersal of ownership is that the government of Mira Cerar and the coalition will still be able to maintain power and influence on corporate governance. So you can set up control councils to set up administrations and dictate to companies. The key reason for the dispersed ownership is because the country will come to the assembly and will be able to vote on what it wants. In doing so, you are conscious of the fact that the budget of the State, the Republic of Slovenia, from these companies will receive substantially lower purchases than otherwise. Strategic companies for which you have decided – fine. I think that each government has its own direction and has the right to define which companies should be strategic. But in a way that you only do one column and you say, these companies are strategic, I think it's more than just a bad seminary assignment. The key issue is that we should say why these companies are placed in a strategic position, which is most important what we will do with these companies in the future. And this is not written for any strategic company alone. Whether you will require these companies to increase their jobs; whether you will require them to expand their market share or not; or whether you will require these companies to take on a competitive enterprise in south-east Europe or elsewhere. Not a single word has been written about it. There is no clear dividend policy. And that's the problem. If I return to this political bargaining, when in fact every minister in this government has received his strategic investment. Also, the Insurance Company Triglav and Desus — Where Are the Reasons? It's okay if you put it in a strategic position, but you forgot to write what the objectives of this company will be in the future, what Insurance Triglav will do. You said you were defending her from taking over Croat Security. Did you give any objective for Insurance Company Triglav to take over a company in south-east Europe or elsewhere? What will be the dividend policy of the Triglav Insurance Company? What about the job at Triglav Insurance? You haven't included any of these. And if you have already decided to give it strategically, then these goals that I mentioned should also be highlighted: what will happen, what do you want to do with this investment? Is this just why this investment is interesting because it is the biggest market cake from Slovenian companies. You were not included with names and surnames, I will only point out one last name, which is closely and deeply linked to Desus – Jasnic. And the stories are, I'd say, clear here how you've solved the matter. Respected, the regulator of the insurance undertaking as the highest risk in the Insurance Company Triglav exposes state ownership – AZN. The highest risk for the Triglav Insurance Company represents state ownership. Where would Insurance Triglav get the money if she wanted to take over a foreign company? Will the pensioner give or will the ZPIZ recapitalise the company? See, in Slovenia we have witnessed that in the last 20 years we have had exclusively recapitalisation at the expense of the rehabilitation of companies, or that we have gone bankrupt before, or that we have made a capital appropriate enterprise – both in banks, in certain insurance companies, in industrial companies, everywhere. Not a single recapitalisation in Slovenia today has there been a state-owned enterprise that has been developed, as they say, we will take over this and this company and we will open up so many and so many new jobs. Not one. Do you consider the insurance company Triglav to be a strategic, respected Mr. Jurša, Do you know how many dividends the pension fund has received in the last six years under the title Triglav? In 2009, nothing and in these five years then 57 million. 57 million in dividends. Billions of liabilities. And you're saying it'll save the pension fund! I'm sure this is about personal partial interests and preservation, I'd say, this marketing cake. And lastly, I would say, most insurance companies around the world sponsor both sports institutions and cultural institutions and put money into social environments. The main marketing players are, and even if any other insurance company were to come, they might be able to maintain these sponsoring and donor funds. On conclusion, we could say only if we draw the line under the fact that the Government of Mir Cerar has not done its job in this strategy, what this strategy will bring. This strategy will in particular bring about a halt to the development of Slovenian companies and that the government of Mira Cerar and the current SD and DeSUS coalition will have an even greater impact on business management than it has had so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u109	Thank you. He's got the word. [[…]] Replica, Mr. Franz Jursha, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u110	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. I think he said at least 10 to 15 points why we advocate that the Triglav Insurance Company remain strategic, no extras. However, you know that in the entire preparation of the material, the Secretary of State can also provide this, the Insurance Company Triglav was strategic. By having been in some part with the addition that until the voting rights of the State and the PIZ are restored. It's the only thing in the appendix. Thus, we have not actually had as much influence here as you think, but we are proud to have been able to participate in the design of this material and that those who have prepared this have also listened to us and that we have coordinated these matters within the coalition partners. By saying that the Insurance Company Triglav did not share any dividends, I will tell you: for 2009, the insurance company distributed a good 9 million dividends, of which was PPIZ 3.15 million, and for the Court of Justice 2.52 million, in 2011 Triglav distributed 15.9 million Euro dividends, ZPIZ received 5.56 million and the Court received 4.65 million and could also list. So this information is not exactly what you, Comrade Marko, were talking about. As for Jasnic, you mean the son of Ljub Jasnic; you know well that after the congress we had, Ljubo Jasnic left the Democratic Party of Pensioners and that there is no visible member within the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u111	Thank you. Procedurally, please, Mr. Mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u112	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleague George, listen to me! I have said that Triglav has distributed 57 million dividends for PPIZ over the last six years, compared to the liabilities of the pension register, that it is likely that it represents some kind of mill and that you cannot justify it. I didn't say there were no dividends distributed, but for an insurance company with more than one billion premiums collected, I think it's small. If you compare other insurance companies in the region, in Western Europe, or in America, you will see that these results are poor. And respectable Mr Jurša, can you just tell me something? In the last ten years, not one President of the Board of Insurance Triglav has completed his term of office. Not one! In the last ten years or 15 or so, the President of the Board of Insurance Triglav has not completed his mandate, because politics has always been involved in this matter, and will now continue to do so. Name one insurance company in the world, the insurance company is the one that demands, I'd say, trust, but not that no president of the board is waiting for his term of office.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u113	Mr Pogačnik, this was not a procedural proposal, it was an abuse of the procedural proposal, at least I did not follow it. Please, what's your procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u114	That Comrade Jurš listens to his colleagues what they say, and that he does not then turn matters around. And everyone else and to interpret such things as he hears them. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u115	It's abuse. Mr. Matjaz Han. Procedural? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Joseph Horvath, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u116	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Mr Dragonja, dear colleagues and colleagues! We urgently need a country's capital investment management strategy. Emergency! What someone said was best, because it's the first one, is the same logic that it's the worst because it's the first one, so in this direction thinking is nonsense. However, the fact is that this strategy after a grave assessment, which in fact marks 68% of the country's capital investments as strategic, definitively and de facto the end of privatisation, means that in this house, in the National Assembly, we will have a long time, including new faces, when they come back, we will continue to argue and talk about ineffective governance of state assets. Ownership — that some entities are owned by the State is nothing wrong. We have a management problem. The numbers on the table, we can all get them and see how successful and efficient state-owned companies are, and compared to those in foreign ownership, domestic owners are essential to my heart as foreigners. But today, in Slovenia, especially in Pomour, which I know a little better, they are hiring – who? Foreigners! Now that we are talking about a sense, for a dimension, first of all I would like to say that all Slovenian companies, the Slovenian companies in the territory of Slovenia, still have two and a half billion Euros less profits than the Bavarian BMW, which generates 5.8 billion profits, Slovenian companies 3.3, but this is not really important for the strategy. However, it is important and significant that the opposition, here in particular with this wing, the right opposition, if I may say so, must defend the expertise of Minister Marble and Secretary of State Dragoj. Why? As far as Insurance Triglav is concerned. Minister Marble said professionally, of course, about the Triglav Insurance Company that he should be a regional player, a regional player. He says that he personally believes that it would be reasonable to implement this within a particular insurance network or in cooperation with a global insurance company. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a closed insurance market. How much car insurance can we have? In elementary school, they say as much as cars. How much real estate insurance can we have? As much as in Slovenia is real estate. And life and so on. But here they are, thank God, when we have only opened doors for foreign insurance companies, competitive, for us citizens with better products and that we can freely decide where we protect cars, houses, our lives, accidents and so on. Therefore, I say that this insurance market is closed and should indeed be an insurance company Triglav regional player. He can't do that because he doesn't have the money. Over the decision that the country intends to place among strategic investments, and has practically already classified the Insurance Office Triglav, we are extremely disappointed in Nova Slovenija. In the beginning, he made a lot of promises to this document. Well, then the coalition riots started, and we got what we got, and that's bad. That's why this document, on my part, will not be worth the support. There's no reason why the Triglav Insurance Company should remain state-owned. But we see a whole bunch of reasons why we should privatize her. This is just one of the few state-owned fortresses that bring high cash flows and the possibility of their distribution among certain groups. This is therefore not a strategic investment for citizens and citizens of this country, but for certain groups. Therefore, the country of sale should go in full and at least in the first stage sell the largest investments: Telekom, Insurance Office Triglav, NLB, Slovenian Railways and so on. Well, let's look at the very approximate numbers so that no one can drag me by my tongue. There are 2 million people in Slovenia. Of these, 600,000 pensioners and 900,000 employees. 500 grand is children and unemployed. Contributions to pensions raises €3 billion annually. However, the country needs to draw another billion and a half euros out of the budget annually. The total pension is around 4.5 billion. If we divide these 4.5 billion into active residents, we get 5,000 euros per year or around 400 euros per month per active population. If we divide this into pensioners, he gets every 600 euros of pension, very close. But where is the problem now that no one in this country is doing, but the problem is what this graph shows. This graph shows that the number of insured persons and pensioners will be aligned there somewhere in 2034. At that time, each active person will have to pay 600 euros per month in contributions if the pensioner wishes to have 600 euros in pension. And that's the problem, ladies and gentlemen! We should solve this "per now" – today. As far as dividends are concerned, I have accurate information. ZPIZ is 34.47% owner of the Triglav Insurance Company and therefore received around 3.1 million in 2011 from dividends, 2012 5.48 million, 2013 15.6 million, 2014 13.2 million, together in these four years 37.6 million. For this year, it is foreseen that I will round up the amount of EUR 20 million from the dividends. How old is that compared to 4 billion and a half? Four miles. So now we're talking about four blocks and we're arguing and giving strategicity to Insurance Triglav. I ask you kindly to all those who speak of the referendum, that you are very correct. Why did the referendum take place in 2007? Because the State Council, their 28 saints, went over the then coalition, which is, of course, democratically right, okay, and the then coalition was, of course, composed of SDS, Nova Slovenija, SLS and DesUS. And it was essentially a referendum for the nationalisation of the Triglav Insurance Company. And people said that, of course – there was no 2015 at that time in 2007. At that time, no one ever smelled or tasted the crisis. And people said they didn't give billions — that's when Insurance Company Triglav was rated for one billion. I would like to talk to you again, but unfortunately it won't work because I don't have enough time to talk about Slovenian railways. To lobbyist groups, I will not list them as being uninjured if I release them, lobbyist groups have managed to convince members of the ruling coalition that freight transport is among the strategic investments of the Slovenian Railways. With this, the State has committed itself to finding a private investor for the second track project Divac-Koper. Here, ladies and gentlemen, we need to talk about this content. The second course of Divaca-Koper – no, no, it will be difficult! The dream of a private partner who, together with the country, would finance the construction of a second track between Divisco and Kopro is very likely to be the final end. At the Ministry of Infrastructure, they received the first findings of the analysis of the second track project commissioned at the International Transport Forum – ITF, the intergovernmental think tank of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. So this is about today's document, which we are considering today, when the freight traffic of the Slovenian Railways is also a strategic investment, it is actually a lobbying victory. It's an important victory for the railroad lobby. As early as March this year, the first draft of the strategy, published by the Ministry of Finance, did not preclude the entry of new partners into the Slovenian Railways, either into a roof company or through the privatisation of freight transport. Today the door is actually closed. Let us not make illusions, ladies and gentlemen, so it will probably be, I am not a futurist, but the extensions are such that in fact Slovenian railways will not be privatised, freight traffic will not be privatized and the fate of the second track of Divac-Koper is easily sealed in our opinion. There are a lot of things that need to be commented on here, and of course each parliamentary group has a limited time. At this point, I will make a dot and say once again: I will not support this document, but of course the amendment of the United Left on our part will not be worthy of our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u117	Thank you. Mr. Franz Jursha has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I must say, Madam Vice President, that you should interrupt your colleague Horvath. He's talking about something that's not on the agenda. He showed the tables that he had shown in the National Assembly several times, talking about the employment ratio : pensioners. I'll be retired tomorrow if I'm lucky to see my pension. You, too, Mr. Horvath, are going to be retired once, but you know, I'm going to be paying a full 40-year pension or then I don't have your pension? You are referring to the budget that this budget must put a billion 400 million into the pension fund in order to satisfy the need to pay pensions. True, but you know why he has to pay a billion 400 million. Also because there were some reliefs to the economy in the same house in the early 1997 ’ s. At that time, the employer’s contribution decreased by 50%. I'm not saying that we have to raise this to the same level as it was, and to the same level that workers have. No, that's not what I'm saying, but then somewhere we have to provide these funds and we just provide them in the budget. And it's not right and fair that you're talking about another track here. What does the second track have to do with the strategy, the strategy decision, and what does it have to do with what will be the classification of these companies that will be classified as strategically important or portfolio companies? I don't think he has any.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u119	Thank you. Procedural Mr. Joseph Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I will also start as a colleague of Jurš; you, as chairman, should remind my colleague Jurša that I have not talked about this. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u121	Procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u122	I did not talk about that he should not receive a pension and that I did not talk about that he should not go from the state budget to the pension fund. [[…]] We were in that coalition, when Desus was there, 2004-2008, and we voted that it was the National Assembly, pardon me, that the state budget was that shock absorber. Yes, Comrade Jurša, I also wish I had ever had a pension; but what we both find is that real pensions have fallen in recent years. So something's wrong with politics. So politics needs to change so that we all have one person worth a pension someday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u123	Mr. Joseph Horvath, it was a bit of an abuse. There's no replica to the replica. But Mr. Uroš Prikl wanted a replica, so please. Mr. Urosh.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Madam President. I've wanted a replica before, but whoever's waiting is waiting. I have a feeling that when we don't go through our debate outside the context of, that is, asset management strategies, we are talking about Triglav. Of course, this country's capital investment in Triglav is very important. Desus therefore also insisted that Triglav remain a strategic investment. Let's take a look back through the timelines.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u125	Mr. Prikl, a minute, if you wait or a second, you're actually a little too fast on the switch, so now time's not running properly. If you wait a minute, we're going to make it happen. You can turn that off, please, microphone, so we can solve the matter because [[…]] Mr. Uroš Prikl, try now if you can.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u126	Thank you so much again for saying that. I'm not going to repeat myself because it's probably been told about the magnetogram. I ended up in this story that Desus insisted that Insurance Company Triglav remain a strategic investment. Why does he stay? You need to know something, if we take a little walk through the timeline, the first version of the strategy classified Insurance Triglav as a strategic investment. Like a strategic investment. The following was a stealth that would be conditioned that it would partly be limited to a certain period of time, and simply, here is where Desus had to, if I may say so, press the brakes and tell him what we were thinking and we made it clear. Last but not least, we were told by our colleague Jurša that for reasons we repeat that we always state some of the reasons, now I will not repeat these reasons, but they have been clearly presented. If we sell a company like that or put it in a portfolio, that's probably what many of you would like. Look, even a smart farmer won't sell to that chicken who lays golden eggs. I guess that's clear. With this, dear colleagues, it is not the end of privatisation, it is not the end of privatisation. In my opinion, what I said earlier, when I had my first performance, I think this is going to be a continuation of privatisation, but a privatisation that will be considered, which will be prudent and based on some economic calculations, but it will not be a wild privatisation that would be considered as a summary of everything, all that is good, all that brings income, sell – yes, then how will we? Then there will be no dividends, my dears, I guess that's what you need to know. If there is another argument to be made about what this will mean for the sustainability of public finances in the context of the demographic fund, I will be very pleased to explain something else. Last but not least, Mr Dragonja can say something about this. I think we have said too much, and I don't know if the point of this debate is about the capital investment strategy to talk about one company and the only company. Well, just so there's no misinterpretation, Jursha and I will feel like we're some kind of lobbyist Triglav here. There were a lot of arguments to be said. Personally, I don't have any insurance at the Triglav Insurance Company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u127	Thank you very much. I note that there is still an interest in the debate, so I suggest you join the debate. Mr. Luka Moon has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u128	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I must now say the following in the debate on this strategy. I would expect that through the country's capital investment management strategy, we will get a document that will determine in particular how a country with an active industrial policy will promote the development of this country, how it will, with the ownership it still has, and this is not small, in banks, in strategically large enterprises, in infrastructure and so on, promote the development and developmental breakthrough of Slovenia, how it will try to use this as its lever of economic policy in order to pull our wagon out of the mud in the post-crisis period. This is particularly crucial in today's time when Slovenia, for the first time, lost its monetary powers, is now leading us to the European Central Bank, and for the second time, on Friday, the finance ministry has given itself a fiscal coercive jacket with the adoption of a fiscal rule and the state is rapidly losing any possibility of managing an autonomous development policy. The ownership of key banks, businesses, infrastructure here is the last option we have yet, and that is why in the United Left we seriously expected to find exactly this in this strategy. Thus, defined key sectors that we want to develop, defined some of the mechanisms by which we would develop them, as defined by these instruments, help regional development, more equitable development of regions, how to reduce unemployment, how to create jobs. But unfortunately, we didn't get any of that. If we take some ballast out of this strategy, we actually get a classification of state investment, which answers only one question, and that's what the Slovenian state holding company should sell. So the strategy that we have in hand is not a management strategy, but it is more or less a privatisation strategy. Answers only one question – what to sell, not what to develop. Here is probably one of the reasons why it is based on an ideological assumption that privatisation in itself means development. In fact, the parties, unfortunately as many of the parties in this Parliament, are somehow taking 'narratives', that the key bar of development in Slovenia is national property and that the country will therefore automatically begin to develop once we privatise businesses. This could not be any longer than the truth and we can find evidence anywhere in Eastern Europe, if you look. You can only look across the southern border at neighbouring Croatia, and we will see what is the balance sheet of privatisation there. Croatia, which has gone into radical privatisation in the 1990s, is the only country in Europe that has not come out of the crisis after six, seven years. This year alone, it is expected to have 0.4% economic growth in 2015 and then practical stagnation is expected by 2020. This is the country from which 50,000 people have left the past two years, and the European Commission expects an additional 221,000 by 2020, these are the official assessments of the European Commission. This is the country where 310 000 are unemployed and the country which has a smaller output of industry in 2015 than it had in 1980. So in 35 years, they got below what they had in 1980. And the external debt or public debt, although the bank has not been recapitalised by its own resources since it is more or less in foreign ownership, is now 85%. In short, Croatia, which was once, let's say, at least roughly comparable to Slovenia, in recent years is precisely because it has chosen the development model now prescribed by the Government so strongly that it is below the level of what it had in 1980. I don't think you need to go anywhere else for evidence, but just learn something from it. Like, I don't know, we look at Germany, Austria or some other North country for some good practice, we might even look elsewhere for bad practices. And if we're talking about privatisation, we definitely have bad enough practices in the neighbouring country to at least think about it again if we don't change our policies. Then the second observation of this strategy is that it essentially cancels the coalition's own objectives, even those enshrined in the coalition contract. Like if I start banking. The coalition agreement states in banking that the government will create such a banking sector that, I quote, "support the implementation of development policy." Here I really don't understand how the privatisation of banks and the implementation of development policy, which, if I understand it, should be run by the state or private banks – is a question of what development policy they will implement because banks, like the rest of the companies, tend to pursue a particular goal, and that is profit. Now, you can say that in some other European countries there are more or less private banks, but here you have to look at what kind of private property. Economist Ivan Ribnikar said: "The importance is the independence of banks. Even where the owners of banks are private, these are usually other domestic financial institutions abroad" – says domestic financial funds and so on, but in Slovenia this is not possible because financial institutions are for taking over some NLB or NKBM, and therefore the independence of banks can only be ensured in Slovenia by the fact that the State owns the systemically important banks. When we sell them, the decision on Slovenian development policy will be taken in Paris, Brussels, Frankfurt, not Ljubljana. This means that they will decide what development model we will have, what some domestic accumulation will look like in this country, what investment policy will look like. In short, the country renounces the latest industrial policy mechanisms or the development policy it still has. Furthermore, as regards insurance undertakings in the coalition agreement, it is stated that the aim of the abolition of supplementary health insurance is to ensure that the rights are maintained as much as possible. On the other hand, this strategy identifies the development of new insurance products as one of the objectives of insurance, in particular in the field of health and pension insurance. Here again the coalition and government will have to deal with themselves: Is the aim of eliminating supplementary health insurance and some commercial insurance or is it expanding? What is the objective of the insurance sector in Slovenia? What is the aim of public health in Slovenia? Will public health care be financed by private insurance or will we have one basic insurance that will offer the entire basket of rights in solidarity and the same way? In fact, if this basket is large enough, then there is no need or interest for an individual to insure himself additionally with some private insurance if the basic basket offers him everything. So this is where the government and the coalition will have to clear up their goals. Then, the next issue is a deliberate privatisation, which was one of the key slogans of Mira Cerar before the elections; what we have before us today is, in my opinion, the risk of continuing reckless privatisation, as we have now seen in the case of Telekom and the case of NKBM, where we have actually sold a bag of money. The seller will be the same Slovenian state holding company, we hand him a Bianca menu with no defined goals to achieve with this privatisation. And I don't know how we can expect different results if everything stays the same as in the past sales, and I don't understand how the coalition didn't learn anything from it. Then, further, it is important to note once again the lack of consistency. For example: Why is Terme Olimia a strategic company, but Terme Catež does not, although it is a twice-larger company that deals with the same activity? Why, for example, does the Union Hotel in Ljubljana get a point to strengthen the international visibility of Slovenia, but companies like Krka and Gorenje do not? [[…]] Here is the answer – because then these two companies should be classified differently and therefore we are also submitting an amendment that they must be strategic companies because it is two of the most recognizable Slovenian brands. And finally, if I just introduce the other two amendments, because I'm running out of time. In the United Left, it is suggested that, while changing the classification for Krka and Gorenje, which should have already received, on its own basis, a point of international recognition to become strategic, which means – or does not mean, as one of the debates said before, that the state must now acquire 50% and one share. This does not mean that the law does not provide for this, but that the strategic nature of these companies means that SDH should not sell any shares in this case and that these companies should be treated as strategic. This is what we want to achieve with this amendment. The next amendment is to include a list of 15 quick privatisation companies adopted in 2013 in the classification of investments; in short, to identify the importance for the Slovenian economy for those companies that have not yet been sold. I think it would be necessary, because, like the former Prime Minister, in fact, this list was adopted under her Government, she made it clear that this decision of the National Assembly does not require that any privatisation should be made at all costs, this decision is merely a conclusion that these companies can be sold and therefore there is no reason not to take it into the investment classification and act accordingly. The last amendment is about the merger of the Bank of Celje. Here's the thing. These two banks are in fact already united, indeed there has not yet been a formal merger, but, as Mr Secretary has told us on the committee, this will happen in this quarter, it is said somewhere in the next two, three months, and the strategy is likely to be adopted for a few years. Therefore, it is essential that we treat them as a joint bank, because as a joint bank they will have to be classified differently. In fact, it will then be a bank with the second largest balance sheet sum in Slovenia. If they are classified as separate banks, [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u129	Thank you. Mr. Magg has the word. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Secretary of State, good-bye. Messengers and Members, and a nice greeting to you. I'll try to be very brief. The fact is that Members and Members of Parliament, particularly the opposition, must face the fact that this document, which is under the exclusive authority of the Government, has been prepared, as it has prepared, despite the fact that many criticisms have been received also because of the timetable; but any document it would have prepared would have been criticized. In view of the fact that the debate today was more focused on individual cases, I would nevertheless like to touch on what all Members should know and send their views to the Legislative and Legal Service, which says: "The strategy by its content is not legal, but a political act defining the policy of the Republic of Slovenia in a particular area of its operation, in a specific case of the policy of the Republic of Slovenia regarding the management of its capital investments." Pika. I think that's clear enough for everyone. I expected a few things from Members who were very heated against the strategy. The OECD made a good recommendation or report when the Slovenian State Holding Act was adopted and noted that a management strategy was also urgently needed. Where are you, my dear fellows? The fact is that this is a living document, and those of you who were involved in the economy knew that the economy had to adapt to the market. Pika. I'm sorry I can't wrap this up somehow. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Then I can just say I support this strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u131	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Passing the list, please. Mr. Jože Tanko, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u132	Thank you so much for saying that. There is no secret that the drafting of this document is accompanied by such and different suspicions of the impact of individual policies on the fact that individual investments were classified exactly where they wanted them. A number of these cases are just to mention Terme Olimia, to mention only Talum, to mention Sneznik, Insurance Company Triglav. Given that, in order to prevent corruption in 2010, in the definition of systemic corruption, the Commission has written more or less clearly what systemic corruption means, this means any influence, or the creation of a situation, or the neglect of legal and ethical standards in the design of individual cases, thereby giving priority to certain stakeholders or lobbyists. This also means the creation of staff or the placement of representatives in public functions. In short, that's the definition of corruption. The fact is that when the Government formulated this proposal, there were strong suspicions and public statements indicating exactly that this strategy had been formulated in a specific way in the Government. Not by the criteria, not by what, but by the express wish of the individual decision makers, the ministers involved. On Friday we passed a law called the Law on Systemic Investigations of Projects of State Interest. This is probably a project of state importance, privatisation of companies. And you spoke on Friday, coalition Members and also Minister Klemenčič, why this law is being passed and why it should be adopted – in order to prevent exactly such influences on the drafting of documents in the country or in the votes in the National Assembly, which indicate that individual lobbyist groups are trying to create certain advantages. Given that Mr Klemenčič was a writer of the KPK report for 2010 and that he advocated on behalf of the Government on Friday a law on systematic investigations of projects of State importance and that he did not trigger any alarm or public against such a way of working, we then wonder whether this proposal and also whether this government should be taken seriously after all. In fact, there are no rational reasons in the explanations you gave us in this document to classify individual investments as strategic. There's absolutely no reason. For example, Snežnik writes that it is a strategic investment because forest managers owned by the state of Slovenia – as one of the many who have received a concession for this – and the existence of this company depends on the policy of forest management. What is the reason why this is a strategic investment? Or what reason is there for you to have written down at Talum, that the company is owned by Eles and is its subsidiary? Talum is a company that receives subsidised electricity paid by all other citizens. This probably can't be a strategic investment. For what reason is Sava Kranj's investment important when it comes to society having major problems? Obviously, strategic investment or significant investment will only take so long to wash the system sufficiently that, for example, it will be sufficiently recapitalised in one way or another, and then it will be planted and sold somewhere, as it has already done with many companies. I ask, however, the Secretary of State, who is on duty in the National Assembly in addition to Mrs Vraničar, when the economic and financial issues are addressed: What has the Government done to prevent conflicts of interest in the classification of individual companies? Since it is probably more than obvious that the assessments that have been made do not work, but in these cases political decisions have come about and probably a score event. Let's say it's Talum. Secretary of State Levanic was employed in Talum before becoming Secretary of State, and then he was hired back and again a state official. And so on and so forth. In short, I would like to know what the Government will do to prevent what is stated in the definition of systemic corruption and in the law you submitted to the National Assembly on Friday. Obviously nothing, because both are intended only to make fog, the atmosphere that something is happening in this country, and in fact things are running in exactly the same privileged way that they are so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u133	Thank you. I give the floor to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Method Dragonji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Madam President. The debate was relatively fruitful. I must say that this is actually a document that is not a classic legislative and administrative document, but a document, as the Legislative and Legal Service has written, is a political document that directs a policy, in this sense an economic policy, an economic strategy that is forward-looking and, in this context, clearly, views can be wider and parliamentary parties' political views from this point of view are richer. Thus, I would not respond to the whole range of provocations that have been made during this discussion. We have already given some answers in the first explanation, so we will not repeat them now if the Members who have asked the questions are not here. However, I would like to stress in particular, for example, what was said and what was in between the interpretation or manipulation, that this document opens up the possibility of privatising only 14% of the capital held by the state. This part was indeed most excluded from the context, because if we went to calculate the weighted average for strategic, important and portfolio investments and how much capital is in strategic, important and portfolio investments, then mathematics would show that the strategy opens up the possibility that up to 60.82% of the capital currently owned by the state could be privatised. That's whether there's a lot of misunderstanding here or there's a deliberate discredit here. Multiplie the amounts that are for strategic companies, and the possibility of which percentage can be entered by private owners, how important, and you will reach this percentage. It is clear, however, that dynamics must be very thoughtful that procedures must comply with all the principles set out. It is unrealistic to expect an institution such as SDH to privatise five large economic systems in one year. If he privatises one or two, it's already a great professional effort. This light will then include an annual management programme, which will also include an annual asset management programme. Secondly, it is worth stressing, since we may not have pointed out at the outset that Article 19 of the SDH Law provides that this strategy applies only to the capital shares of the Republic of Slovenia, so to speak, to equity shares. It does not apply to claims and the DUDB has a majority of the claims. In that part, this is practically 95% of the DUTB portfolio and as far as the management of this property is concerned, everything is intended for privatisation in DUTB. There is no question of whether it is privatized or sold, but it is all about privatisation. This is also very important for understanding the whole issue. Then the question was particular about Triglav, how Triglav actually landed in this group. When classifications were made, we set up the most consistent methodological framework. In fact, Triglav was eventually reintroduced into a strategic investment on the basis of the provisions of the specific law that defined it, and until this law is amended, this will not change. This is stated in the strategy that this is the Law on the Property Conversion of the Share of Insurancees, which was adopted in 2008 and then amended again in 2010, on the basis of a referendum that defined this. The same is true for Slovenian railways, because it was Mr Horvat's discussion. Until the Law on Slovenian Railways is amended, the strategy cannot establish a different classification as defined in the law; but the amendment relating to Slovenian Railways applies only to companies which are in non-key activities. Freight is a company that is in key activities and the possibility of entering private owners, such as Kargo into freight transport, has no connection with the construction of a second track, since the second track is a state infrastructure and the activity of freight transport is carried out in an economic company that is now fully state-owned and we open it up with a strategy to allow strategic partners to enter. From this point of view, I would stress that all the development aspects that may have been exposed here as a major problem are to the greatest extent possible taken into account in the sense that companies can acquire additional equity by entering foreign partners or private owners, but can also very effectively continue to finance their development with debt capital. This is simply a basic principle of financing the development and financing of economic activity and all these aspects, clearly, cannot be covered in the strategy. In general, it is considered that state-owned companies, except for Dars – Dars, should be exempted because it is comparable to other comparable companies that build and manage motorway systems – that state-owned companies are under-performing and have financial capacity, in addition to equity financing, also in additional debt financing that they may engage. The publication of the European Union, which has been cited here, has some methodological shortcomings. The disadvantage is that, for example, Krka, which is wholly owned by a quarter of the state, is considered to be 100 % State-owned. This is said to take account of all employees in Krka as employees in the state sector, although this is a company that is currently on the stock exchange, which is practically operating on the principle of a company with the main influence of private owners. One quarter of these ownership entitlements are implemented by the State. Thus, it is not methodologically right to count – with the number of employees, with everything it creates – as a complete state-owned enterprise, but we have warned the European Commission about this and we have also exchanged data, so that in the following publications we count that these things will not happen again. I would conclude by trying to set clear targets for what we want to achieve through the strategy. This is a key component of the strategy, to set clear targets, to increase the efficiency of the management of state assets in companies in the majority or in part state ownership, and to determine how we will achieve this. However, as it is written in the second chapter for individual companies where the state sees that they have to carry out certain developmental and other roles that are important, so that Slovenia, as an economy, also has all the appropriate operators of this economic development that can fully carry out these functions. In this respect, we believe that this strategy provides key answers to what such documents also contain elsewhere in the world in other countries. It received a positive OECD assessment, with which we consulted professionally. However, as for the individual minorities that have arisen with regard to the specific classifications of individual companies, not everyone, the methodology requires a certain calibration and we have also tried to objectify the classification of individual companies by following the method of coordination – not to make some unacceptable compromises, but to place these companies in their development function. Thus, some major conflict of interest or overdoing some party motives on behalf of the working group could not be discussed by the section of the Ministry working on it. In this respect, we assess that the strategy can provide a solid basis for what the Slovenian State Holding in this area will do, what objectives it achieves and for each undertaking we have set a much larger international comparison, on the basis of which the objectives at the level of individual companies or business groups are also based and ensure that we can gradually lead this process in this direction, so that the state of these companies can count on that public financial interest in this work as well. However, as far as these discussions are concerned, I do not know whether the State as owner can call the Director or the Chairman of the Management Board, but I will tell you from experience, but I have worked for several years in a large international society; the owner, whether he is a state or any other owner, should always pick up the phone. The assumption that you pick up the phone alone in Novartis was the standard that you had to answer it in two hours if you got an e-mail. [[…]] Generalize or banalise certain aspects – I don't think so either. This is said to be the introduction of normal ownership mechanisms, management mechanisms that will follow standards that are normal in the world, in particular with a view to ensuring the effectiveness of these companies and their independent and professional management, which we must ensure through the processes we are carrying out under SDH. SDH is no longer just a court of law, as it has been so far. Perception is still that there are mostly functions of Soda. Even when the last business report was prepared, we gave it back to them because we said it was no longer just a business report from the Soda, it is a SDH business report that must take into account the entire state property, the standards by which they should report are already written in the law itself, even accounting, so we do not repeat them here. The public financial aspects, which are important here, have not been elaborated in the strategy itself to such an extent that the figures – in particular, as much as the budget can expect the realisation of state assets and dividends. This can be done in budgets as soon as the annual SDH work programmes are drawn up, which will further specify these objectives than in this business document. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u135	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I ask only those who are procedural, Mr Miha Kordish. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u136	Thank you very much for your procedural, Madam President. Mr Dragonja mentioned earlier that he will not answer my questions, the questions and challenges posed by his colleague, Luka Mesec, because he is not in the Chamber. It is true that we have stepped out for a moment or, in particular, I can say that I was in the hall below and I have been accompanying the debate. The moment you made this point, I came back and now I'm here to ask the answers to the questions we've asked. Very specifically, I have asked you three questions or challenges myself and I want you to comment on them. The first is that in the United Left all we ask is that the remaining companies in List 15 are classified according to the criteria and strategies and that they are adequately available to them. That was the first such challenge. And last but not least, you told the committee yourself that the official position of the Ministry of Finance around Cincarna is that under all these criteria it is an important business. That's the first thing. Another such matter, perhaps even more problematic, is that Krka, Petrol and Gorenje are strategic companies according to your own criteria, and you have also confirmed this. On your own standards. If we are looking at this in substance, of course, because the state does not have a 51% stake in two of these companies, this is certainly no reservation to sabotage some of the substantive criteria. The third is linked to the merger of Banka and Banka Celje, which are in fact already united and, if treated as united, this becomes an important investment, which must not be fully sold. Now, as far as this merger is concerned, you yourself have declared that we could talk about it, but once we start talking about it once, if we start talking about it now, it will be too late. And all we ask in the United Left is that when the merger of these two banks is completed, the government will classify this merged bank according to its own criteria. We want nothing more than to stick to your own criteria according to your own strategy, as this strategy is already 'disfunctional'. Thank you for your answers, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u137	Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would ask you to ask the Secretary of State to answer without question whether it is possible to exclude or exclude conflicts of interest between those who have decided to do so in the design of a set of strategic, important and portfolio investments. Secondly: Can it be possible to rule out conflicts of interest in the design of the Supervisors of the Slovenian State Holding? That was my question in the debate and the Secretary of State explicitly avoided it. However, I justify this by providing the public with a number of information that some ministers have achieved that the investments in which they have an interest or have performed a business function have been classified exactly where they want to be. Let's say Terme Olimia visits Terme Chatage. We were talking about Talum. We were talking about Triglav Insurance. This is extremely important in terms of the findings or definition of systemic corruption, and if the Secretary of State cannot exclude this, this is virtually the exact opposite of what you proposed on Friday as a law on systematic investigations of projects of State importance. It's the opposite, the exact opposite! I therefore propose that the Secretary of State respond very unequivocally to those questions raised, and I ask that you also address this request to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u139	Procedurally, Mr. Marko Pogačnik, mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u140	Madam President, thank you for the floor. As Head of the SDS Group, I ask you to address the request to the Secretary of State, because he has not answered, at least for me personally, two key questions from my debate. On the basis of the proposed SDH classification, will it be able to meet the liquidity, its current obligations imposed on it by two laws? How does he comment, or where are the reasons why the Slovenian State Holding issued a five-year bond of EUR 100 million a few days ago? And concerning the expanse of property, Who was he that suggested the dispersion of property? Did such a term come into the management strategy by the Ministry of Finance or was it an explicit wish of one of the coalition parties? Throughout the debate, we were able to hear that this is supposed to be on the proposal of the Social Democrats, and see, I am sure that the dispersion of ownership is the one that, through this government, Mira Cerar and the coalition, has given even more power and even more influence in setting up administrations and supervisory councils. And last but not least, with diversified ownership, there is a deliberate decline in the purchases for state-owned companies. This risk has already been pointed out by the President of the Management Board of the Slovenian State Holding. I'm asking for answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u141	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance to Mr Method Dragonji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u142	Thank you very much. I'll try for the rest of the time. We have already answered Mr Kordiš's question to the committee. All privatisation investments already decided by the National Assembly in 2013 and are defined as portfolios in this strategy, this is envisaged for the gradual and deliberate separation from these fifteen companies, are already privatised by four companies, but from the remaining companies we did not propose to classify according to these criteria primarily from this point of view, since they would have intervened in the privatisation procedures already under way. This would pose a certain risk to the credibility of Slovenia in international financial markets. This is not only the Ministry of Finance but also the whole government's view that we are not reclassifying these investments. This is the main substantive reason, this also applies to the two proposed banks that you are proposing here. I can answer Mr Tank's question that in drawing up the classification proposal, as presented in this strategy, both the working group and the Ministry of Finance continued to avoid any conflicts of interest that could lead to the significant impact of individual partial interests on the classification of these companies. Discussions were set, as was the case with tourism many times. In particular, for tourism, we have four state-owned enterprises, in tourism activities and in this sector, the Minister of Finance has, in fact, directed that it is difficult to define all four companies as strategic and to define half of these companies as important, which can be development agents, not all of them, because this also entails certain obligations. And Minister Restoration was not personally involved in this definition and had no impact on when the proposal came to the Government. As for Mr Pogačnik's question, however, I answered the previous answers when you were gone. The SDH will be able to fulfil its commitments under the financial plan by the end of 2016. However, additional liquidity measures will need to be provided in 2017, i.e. the ability to service and its obligations. This will be done in such a way as to ensure that certain assets are exchanged between the Republic of Slovenia and between SDH. As far as diversified ownership is concerned, this was a proposal identified in the expert group working on the document.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 3rd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS ANOTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE LEGISLATION OF ACCOUNTS, IN THE FIELD OF THE REGULAR PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary Mag. Matthew the Vranic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u144	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! At its May session, the National Assembly confirmed the proposal for a bill on tax clearance of accounts as appropriate for further consideration. Let me remind you, the bill provides for new methods of supervision in the implementation of accounts relating to cash transactions. The bill introduces the obligation to confirm accounts with the Financial Administration, namely those invoices issued for the supply of goods and services for which the payment is paid or received in cash. In addition, the bill introduces an instrument that can help to control employment more effectively and work in black. This is therefore a proposal that represents an important element of the Government's efforts to combat the grey economy. On the basis of the debate in the context of the first reading of the draft law in the National Assembly and on the basis of further consultations with the interested public and the professional public, a proposal for a law is now being supplemented before you. It brings some important news compared to the first reading text. Let me summarize them briefly. The proposal for a law retains the fundamental principle of broad definition of the obligation to certify accounts. Among the many initiatives, the Government estimates that it is justified to exclude only cases of continued supplies of goods and services from the obligation to confirm accounts if these supplies are based on the procurement relationship and are linked to the supply of water, electricity, gas, steam, utilities or telecommunications services. In other such proposals, the Government considers that the reasons presented as an argument for an exception do not justify a derogation from the principle of equal treatment of the debtors. Furthermore, amendments to the text of the law have been introduced which allow for the normal operation of electronic service providers, the so-called start note, as well as payment through PayPal and similar systems. Next. The provision on the customer’s obligation to take the account and the related sanction has been amended. In addition, the provision is supplemented by a provision governing a transitional period of two years in which the debtor can decide for himself whether to use the electronic clearance of the accounts or the associated account book, which will be subsequently confirmed by the Financial Administration. During a transitional period, it will not necessarily be necessary to demonstrate the inability to establish an electronic link in a particular area with the Akos certificate. Finally, corrections have been introduced, meaning a clearer and more specific legal dictatorship. Preparations for the technical implementation of the proposed solutions are already ongoing in parallel with the preparation of legal solutions. They are already working to coordinate with the public concerned, and support activities are also being prepared, which will come to life when the proposed system of tax clearance of accounts is in place. In order to ensure timely preparedness for the implementation of the system, both on the part of the Financial Administration and on the part of the debtors, it is essential that the legal framework in the National Assembly be confirmed as soon as possible. I therefore propose that, if business conditions are met, the third consideration of the draft law should already be carried out at this meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u145	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the member, Mrs Marushi Škopac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u146	Thank you for your word, Madam President. In the course of the 11th meeting, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the draft law on tax clearance of accounts submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration. Until the end of the business deadline, the types of amendments have been tabled by the Alliance Group of Alenka Bratušek, the SDS Group of Ambassadors and the NSI Group and the Coalition Group of the Party of the Modern Centre and Desus. The Committee also took note of a number of comments made by legal entities and the views of the public concerned. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, in the context of its general comments, where the views on the specificity and clarity of the text draw attention to places with insufficient substantive and similar explanations, makes specific comments to the series of articles. Representatives of the Government from the Ministry of Finance, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the representative of the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, the representative of the Chamber of Lawyers of Slovenia and the representative of the Slovenian Insurance Association participated in the work of the Committee. The representative of the applicant stated in the supplementary explanation of the articles that the proposal in question is new to regulate the obligation to certify accounts related to cash transactions by means of a modern electronic execution, by providing an account identification number for each invoice issued to the Financial Administration. In the course of the presentation of the opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service stated that the amendments of the two groups followed the opinion and largely addressed the shortcomings. In the discussion on individual articles, the representatives of the opposition groups did not express support for the translated text. It follows from the opinions and views presented that the scope of the grey economy cannot be tackled by tax registers because it is people who do not actually have registered activities who do not issue these accounts. However, additional administrative costs will be borne by all others, in particular small taxpayers. This is not the right approach, as it would be important to create an appropriate business environment in the first place to make the economy easier to operate until the final tax burden is lifted by reducing bureaucratic barriers under the new business model of economic policy. It is also clear that legal entities, in particular small businesses and their representatives, are in opposition to the introduction of tax boxes for precisely the above-mentioned reasons. On the other hand, the representatives of the coalition expressed support for the text to the amendments, stressing that the changes introduced by redistributing burdens or the open possibility of additional analyses in the direction of inspection take an appropriate approach. The view was expressed that tax legislation should be predictable and robust so that, in parallel technical progress, it could encourage voluntary fulfilment of obligations. And it is precisely on the basis of the envisaged technical and software support for the proper automatic processing of data with the prescribed Furs data package that the translated text undoubtedly provides. It is true that the tax grey economies themselves will not eliminate, but a combination of tighter inspection controls is undoubtedly a step in the right direction. In response to the Committee's expressed concerns, the representative explained that the introduction of tax warehouses is basically merely an upgrade to the current operating regime, with the possibility of focusing on the presence of tax inspectors in the field in areas where illogicality or potential infringements will be detected, which means facilitating the functioning of both the Financial Administration and the taxpayers themselves. The Committee adopted amendments to the amendments of the Parties' groups of the Modern Centre and Desus to Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 15, 17, 18, 19, 23, 25 and 26 of the legislative proposal, while the other amendments did not accept or become irrelevant due to previous amendments. In conclusion, in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the draft law together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u147	Since the assembly held a general debate at its 8th meeting on the proposal for a law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the proposal for a review of the amendments tabled on 10 July. Seven. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs Urska Ban has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Today we are before the conclusion or the conclusion of the parliamentary phase of the bill on tax clearance of accounts. We're still looking at this second and third. Much has been said in this interim period during the general treatment, the treatment on the working body already mentioned on the substantive solutions to the proposal of this law and the so-called introduction of tax registers. At the last regular session of the Finance Committee, we have adopted a number of amendments or amendments to this draft law, both those relating to the resolution of comments by the Legal and Legal Service and of nomotechnic nature, as well as some substantive corrections, which have been made during the public debate between the two hearings and have already been explained by the Secretary of State in the introduction. We believe that this has improved the text of the law from the first reading until now, even on the substantive side. The main objective of this law is to limit the possibility of abuse in cash operations, which will increase the rates collected and reduce the grey economy in some way. In this way, we can start to think gradually in the future about lowering certain tax burdens for taxpayers, because we will gradually, as this law also foresees, start paying taxes for all. Even after experience abroad, tax collectors certainly provide greater tax discipline, which is correct for all taxpayers. As I said before, even at the expense of tax evasion, we pay more, says the one who regularly and fully pays taxes. Otherwise, we have been in operation since 2013 with so-called virtual tax receipts containing a programme aimed at preventing the erasure of accounts. The weakness is that they are not directly and in real time linked to the central information system at the Financial Administration. What we accept today is the upgrade of this system, it is an upgrade, it is said that in real time a link will be established with the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. This will enable the active management of data and the monitoring of possible derogations, which will be subject to further tax control in the next stages. Simply put, what does the introduction of tax registers mean. This means that any entrepreneur, any craftsman, any company from 2 January 2016 will have to have a computer or any other electronic device and a connection to the Internet, a real device with an application through which it will send a confirmation of each account that will be issued to its customer and will be paid with cash to the Financial Administration. This account will receive an identification number in a second and the seller will print it and deliver it to the customer. However, if, during this envisaged transitional period, the law provides for the following two years, the electronic device will not be used and, as so far as it has been, will be able to issue invoices via the bound account, any such seller of goods or services will have to confirm the account through the Furs website website within 10 days. In principle, the law provides for – as simplified as I have now said – the introduction of tax registers. By contrast, the law provides for who the taxpayers are, what are the exceptions, what is the exact procedure for issuing invoices with an identification number. It also defines the control of this system, whose main solutions have already been identified in the introduction by the Secretary of State. Until 31st. 12. 2017 provides for a transitional period when the debtors can also issue accounts through the bound account book. With this, the debtors, in particular those who are already using the bound account book and those who are engaged in field work, are allowed a gradual transition to the use of electronic invoices. I will not continue to define myself until the resolution of the individual articles of the law, which are envisaged because we have discussed this extensively. Perhaps to conclude, all I can say is that I support this solution. Although there have been quite a few criticisms at the time of adoption of this law, I believe that we all want to have our education, health care, more roads and so on. On the other hand, there are some who are opposed to regulating cash transactions, although we know that there are the most tax evasions in this area. If they were to be collected, they could devote more resources to the areas listed above, so I wonder why such opposition. I don't know if we're against the Financial Administration to make sure how much cash we have, how much cash we have in business is replaced by certain owners. Or maybe we're against it because the sellers and the buyers don't like it when someone controls their business. As I have said, I myself will support this solution to the introduction of the tax registers, as well as in our Group of Members, because in our view they provide greater discipline, which is correct for all taxpayers. After all, tax evasion is also paid by those who pay taxes regularly and in full. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u149	Thank you. Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u150	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, distinguished Secretary of State! As we have already announced in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we are opposed to the introduction of tax registers. I am also of the opinion that by introducing the tax registers we will not incur what is meant to be the purpose of this law. That means we're not going to infect the grey economy, we're not going to intrude on the black. Why? Because what has already been exposed, which we have also pointed out to the committees, because this will not give us those who do not issue accounts; those who do not have their activities registered at all. And I personally see you as an unfair competition to all those who are doing their work honestly. Unfortunately, we do not have only unfair competition between entrepreneurs who adhere to the rules, but between entrepreneurs who do not adhere to the rules, which has already been exposed. The problem is unfair competition between those who have registered activities and those who do not. And very often those who do not have one are exploiting the country in other areas, that means social transfers and all the benefits from school, kindergarten and so on. And I see you as an unfair competition, and I see you as a problem in the country. We should certainly do more in this area. If I look back a little bit, with 1. Seven. We have introduced virtual tax registers in 2013. One system where it is no longer possible to delete or repair accounts using a computer program. At the beginning of this year, we introduced a bound account book for all those who were still in business cash. Both measures were aimed at stifling the grey economy and in some way also preventing work from being done in black. These two measures do not exist for a long time, you have some results already; I believe it would be right to wait at least a year, two or three more to get the right results and the right effects of these two measures. Personally, I think it would be more sensible to do more in the other direction, in the direction of reducing taxes. Why? It is very common that high taxes also mean more tax evasion, whereas reversely low taxes also mean less tax evasion because more people simply decide to register the activity. What we have already pointed out is that it might be more reasonable to deal with tax debt in this place than to introduce a tax box if we know that the overall effect will be between 50 million and 100 million per year, which I think is very little. The measure really seems disproportionate to what you will get in the cash register if you do and how much it will actually cost our taxpayers. The cost of introduction was estimated at 2 million, the cash register was supposed to cost about 300 euros, and the debtors were expected to be 80 000, which meant that we would arrive at 24 million euros. We know that these are not all costs yet; we need to add software upgrades, monthly maintenance. And then I'd say we can get close to 50 million as fast as we can. This is already the lower limit that you intend to obtain from this measure in the cash register. It should be noted that this burden is to a large extent passed on to taxpayers, particularly small and micro-enterprises. This doesn't seem right to me, and I just can't support it. As far as I understand correctly, in past discussions, this software for the tax box is such that it will be possible to provide for all those who will be able to ensure connectivity with the Financial Administration. This means that we will have more bidders, which will also provide this equipment. I just want an answer here, if that's what she's saying. I am afraid that this business would only be possible for individuals and that it would reopen stories that had already opened in the past; and I will point out car stickers that we had a short time, and then no longer, then the choice of a printer for personal documents and so on. We just wouldn't want to start an economy in such an unfair way. As far as the punishment of the buyers is concerned. It is true that this penalty has now been reduced from 40 to 400 to a certain amount of €40. Okay, but I still don't think it's appropriate that this penalty for buyers even exists. If we take a look, there is still ambiguity where the tax inspector can actually stop you and demand an account from you. I don't know what that means. If you go to coffee, you drink coffee that costs 1.40 euros, you leave the bill on the table, you walk away from the coffee shop. And what – the inspector comes with you, you don't have an account, and coffee costs you 41.40 euros. I think there's still a lot of confusion about that. As far as the amendment is concerned, the definition of cash payment. Card payments — I find it highly illogical that card payments are included in cash payments because the traceability of the cash flow is ensured through the payment card. I don't know how you can put it in cash. That's why our amendment is going in the direction of exempting it. When a bit of online browsing is found on the Tax Administration website, the question is whether a payment card payment is considered to be a cash payment or payment to a transaction account. The answer follows, with regard to the implementation of the Regulation implementing the Law on the Tax Procedure, payment by payment cards and credit cards does not constitute cash transactions, since the traceability of the cash flow is ensured in such transactions. Now you're going to say that in this case it's another marriage. But it's the same marriage that belongs to your ministry. And it seems real to me, I don't see any logic in that we define cash once as cash, as the money that you actually put in your hand; on the other hand, we also define cash as a card payment. I really don't see any logic here, and I don't know what you're gonna gain by it. I am also concerned about how this system will work, if we know that at the beginning of the year that led to the introduction of bound accounts, on the day that individuals should have this bound account book in their hands, this bound account book was simply not possible to buy. Then these days have moved a little bit, and I'm afraid – but it was a small change, and a small number of those in debt will be involved – I'm afraid what happens when you introduce the tax box. Will you be able to provide the information system in a way that will really work and that this process will really last only two to three seconds? Is that not why we will have so many longer species in stores? Now I would like to read another self-employed person's opinion, which he wrote on Twitter. "If the tax office costs me a month's contribution, I'll shut down my business and go to social services." Instead of a self-employed state of 300 euros, the state will give him 300 euros. I really hope that we all don't want similar reactions from our taxpayers together. I have to re-explain Slovenia's uneven coverage with the Internet. On the other hand, in the proposal for a law, you propose that this undertaking, which will not be covered by the Internet, will have to prove it itself by means of a certificate from the Agency for Communications Networks and Services. It really does not seem appropriate for us to now impose on our tradesmen, businesspeople of individuals, that they themselves must obtain these certificates. This is a state authority's certificate and I see no reason why the Financial Administration would not be able to obtain a certificate in this case where Internet coverage is possible and where it is not. I see no reason for additional administrative burden on our companies. I also wonder when it's actually a field job, how does an entrepreneur know when he's going to go out on the ground to a buyer who's ordered a service, that there's no internet there, so he can make a payment. How will such cases be resolved? And what's already been exposed is insurance agents. I just can't imagine that now every insurance agent should have a tax box with him, while on the board you didn't know how to tell a single case when it was actually a fraud, because it's always with the insurance agent behind the policy. And I never doubted the insurance policy I got in my hands. This has always been a credible charter for me. And since you don't have a case of gray economy, at least you didn't know it, I really don't see why they have to be captured here. I object to the introduction of the tax registers in general because they represent only additional burdens on the economy. I'm sure this will not plague the grey economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u151	The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance mag has the floor. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u152	Thank you so much for saying that. Allow me first to answer a specific question about how it will be with IT service providers for the debtors. Each debtor shall decide in his own way how to arrange his information support. Once again, I repeat what I have already said from this place several times, it will have to ensure connectivity with the Financial Administration system. There will be no restriction of competition in this area. That part of the Furs information system upgrade that has to be done on Furs' side, and that goes on the public procurement system. But these are two completely separate matters. With regard to the amendment to Article 2, I would like to point out that we define what is considered a cash payment for the purposes of this Act. And to give a very broad interpretation of the cash payment, we are led to do so for a reason that has more than one argument behind it. First of all, integrity covers cashier's business. In fact, there is no difference when the buyer comes to the cashier's office or pays with a credit card or pays with cash. This traffic shall be recorded in the same way from the point of view of business. And if we want to use this data, including to analyse the risk of further procedures, we need information that will fully demonstrate the turnover of the treasury. If payments are to be excluded on a credit card or credit card, double cashiers should be introduced. This would result in more costs for the debtors, more complications in their operation. In addition, we note that payment cards, so-called pre-paid payment cards and credit cards, are increasingly emerging on the market where there is no direct link between the transaction account and the card; thus, the traceability of these expenditure is not ensured. POS-terminals, as I have already said, are an integral part of the cash registers. If we wanted to eliminate this, we would have caused additional costs for the debtors. Practice in other countries suggests that payment on payment and credit cards is also included in the system of clearance of accounts. If I can respond to some other references. We stress all the time that the Law on tax clearance of accounts does not respond to all the problems of the grey economy; it is an important element. We know that the grey economy has several emerging forms, and each emergent form must be addressed by its actions. The Law on tax clearance of accounts will, to a good extent, release the human resources of the Financial Administration, which can also be directed towards more intensive control of those who do not issue accounts over so-called slumbers and unregistered operators. Therefore, this proposal can have indirect effects on this area as well. However, we are aware that this area will also have to be addressed with further or other measures. It is true that the so-called virtual cash registers and bound accounts have had positive effects with regard to the collection of additional levies. We estimate that only virtual cash registers have brought roughly EUR 100 million of added revenue. And it is precisely because of this effect that we make a very conservative assessment of the possible financial consequences of this bill. However, the supervision so far has found two. First, the virtual cash registers and tied accounts require the unabated presence of inspectors in the field, which is why a lot of productive time is taken to control with a relatively small effect because it is not possible to carry out a forward-looking risk analysis. And another argument, despite the improvement of the situation, the Financial Administration inspectors still find that cashiers appear on the ground to allow the subsequent deletion of data or the modification of data; and there is still abuse of the existing system. For this reason, the proposed regime constitutes an essential upgrade to the existing system; it does not mean that we reject everything we have done so far, but rather upgrade with additional mechanisms, with additional measures and improve the effectiveness of the measure. As regards the field work, this is the only explanation. In the case of field work, it is either during a transitional period or after the end of a transitional period that the use of the bound account book and the subsequent confirmation by the Financial Administration are admissible. However, technological or technological developments go on to the extent that even field work will be able to use simple tax receipts to a large extent or to allow immediate connectivity with the financial office and the immediate issuance of certified accounts. For one or the other option, the debtors will be able to decide on their own. On other matters, on other amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u153	Since it's still an interest, please sign in. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We have talked a lot about the tax registers introduced by the proposal for a bill on tax clearance of accounts. We have also talked about the fact that we, at the time of our government, introduced so-called virtual tax registers, which are virtually nothing, are quite real and have given their effects. And those who do business with cash must have invested a lot in upgrading the software, perhaps buying the equipment. The software, however, guarantees that the one who issues the bill cannot then delete it or repair it. The key is that it's still human, and that's why I often hear very well that we need a real man, an ethical man, because it's man who decides to press the button if you want, whether he's going to issue the coffee bill or not. That is why I think we are again after long debates on whether we trust the taxpayers, our entrepreneurs; or whether the state does not trust them. I guess he doesn't trust them. Because of something, I don't know how much the share of those who don't pay taxes is due to some of these non-conspiracy, if I may say so, then the state says to all the debtors – you're all thieves. Since the coalition has committed itself in a coalition agreement to declare a war against the grey economy, I do not think the coalition understands this war against the grey economy, because it consists of 80,000 taxpayers operating in cash. And in the law, the definition of cash is very unfortunate. That is why we support the amendment of colleagues and colleagues from SDS who somehow redefine the definition of cash transactions. It is also due to the opposition of the small economy that we called this spring an urgent meeting of the Committee on Finance, where we have faced the positive and, in particular, negative aspects of the introduction of tax receipts. I've had a lot of talk with tax experts, and they're easy to direct when the coalition says yes, with this law we're now going to give a death blow to the grey economy. Look, a simple calculation, we don't know how gray the economy is; but if the gray economy is, say, 20% of GDP, then we're at about 7 billion. And if we really want some measure that would halve the grey economy, because anything else that is less is actually a failed measure. If we want to halve the grey economy, then we should only get half a billion more in the state treasury from VAT — and this is a very approximate calculation. Half a billion. The government is now saying that we are getting 70 million through the introduction of tax receipts. On the other hand, those who do business with cash are burdened by this law because they will have to buy hardware and software. The estimate is that we did not calculate this in New Slovenia, but the estimate is that it will cost about 40 million. So with 40 million we hit the hostages, on the other hand, we get 70 million. Yeah, if that's some kind of measure, then I really don't know. Of course, these are some projections and projections, we don't have precise calculations, so we'll see, one day we'll see what happens. And if it's round, it'll be a shovel. If it's pointy, they'll be fairies. Thus, we cannot take any measures to increase the State's confidence in the economic sector. And if that's a stick, then we should give it a carrot. For the last time I discussed, then this corner should also be in this direction, that someone who got the deal would want to come from a hundred to four hundred employees within one year; and because he also needs to expand the business, he cannot because he has the agricultural land around him. What's he gonna do? Yes, the answer is very simple because the shooting is far from Austria; we all know the answer. Like this, Mom, you'd say young. There's a lot to talk about. Colleague Urska Ban, president of the Committee on Finance, is not here at the moment, said that the most tax evasion for those who deal in cash. I don't really agree with that, but I'd like an answer from the Furs experts about what they're thinking. And what struck me was Mr Aleš Špetič's record, a messenger of the digital technologies of the Republic of Slovenia, which the government has set up and should listen to. He is also an entrepreneur and wrote: "The only legal option for internationally oriented start-up companies wishing to have their operations automated is to discard existing solutions and obtain tax-based Slovenian suppliers who are not adapted for business around the world even less for international business. These cashiers are developed to work in shops or bars. You can imagine," so Aleš Špetič, "how start-up companies sell their products to customers on the other side of the world so that they can buy them at a business in Slovenia where they have a physical tax box which is connected to Furs" and so on. This seems to have been forgotten, or I may have overlooked the solution in the marriage text. We oppose this law, oppose the introduction of tax boxes and argue that there will be more grey economies because entrepreneurs have slowly enough different pressures, different bureaucratic barriers, new and new costs that do not contribute to new products, to new markets and so on. However, I will support the amendment to Article 2 of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u155	Mr. Tillen Christmas has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u156	Thank you for your word. This house likes to be repeated or repeated, and to be somehow balanced, so will I. Since many things have already been answered in previous discussions, including on the working body, which was crucial because it seems that they have not yet been clarified despite the fact that we have already explained them several times. At least our understanding, including the government, I think she gave the right answers, but still. Let's start somewhere at the beginning. As far as the grey economy is concerned, it has already been said that Sursa estimates an estimated 8% of GDP. This is about €3 billion, and this is not very little. The bulk of this, we have already said, represents tax evasion. This measure, with the introduction of tax boxes, is at least in my opinion a step in time. Already more than half of the Member States of the European Union have a tax box in one form or another; it is true that they do not have such a time-consuming or accident. Some have been introducing this in the '90s, and we've been thinking about it lately, in the last few years. Attempts have been made before, but now technology has progressed so much that we can afford the ones proposed in this law. The basic guide is what we have already said in the beginning, and it also refers to the response to some of the obviouss that we want as few exceptions as possible in this system. The tax system is already meant at the start to be as robust as possible. Because once you put a wedge in it, the system can collapse. It is also our pre-election promise, and unfortunately for all those who have said that SMC does not have a program, things are becoming rather ungrateful, especially after the last few sessions, when we take one or more of the items that belong to the SMC pre-election programme at each meeting. All of a sudden, things are happening, which means we're denying again that SMC doesn't have a program. We have adopted a fiscal rule, we accept tax receipts and so on. As far as the tax registers are concerned, then we put them together with the coalition team in a coalition contract, together defending that this is necessary, that this is the right step towards regulating this area. In early 2015 there was also an action plan, now we have a law before us; I hope that today will also be adopted. I think that we have sufficient support and that in a relatively short time, we will also follow the rule that all of this will also be applied in practice. As part of a rapprochement with the electorate, the president of the Finance Committee and I have embarked on this project to talk to the field in a slightly different way. We went to five places, we were in Isolah, New Town, Maribor, Postojna, Velenj. Each time we sat down for about two to three hours with those interested in the area. We invited everyone, in particular the Chamber of Commerce and Chamber of Commerce, to present a proposal for the law at that time, to discuss the substantive solutions, to discuss whether they had any concerns that might be better done. And on the basis of all these observations, we also took time in the National Assembly, talked to each other, and looked at where the problems really are, where problems may arise mainly because of misunderstandings, and in a relatively short period of time they will also resolve. I'm sure it's a pretty complete system. As I said in the introduction, technology has made it possible for us to have the most complete one of those now available, perhaps only Croatia. It will primarily allow automated control, which will be simple, transparent, with as few human errors as possible, on the one hand. On the other hand, it will relieve a number of tax inspectors. It has already been said that over 180 of them have worked on cash registers or control of what is now to be done automatically with algorithms on the servers of the Financial Administration; this means that more than half of the tax inspectors have done just that. What was the spoils of that? It was negligible because most of these cases are very difficult to prove from the point of view of the additional tax imposed and from the point of view of the penalty. This reminds us that in the part where work may be unproductive, we leave it to the information technology that can do it in a comparable or even better way; and all of the resources we have are directed in a different direction. What you're saying is that we're not going to solve with the tax box – I agree, but we're going to be burdened by more than 100 inspectors, and the infrastructure is going to wear off. The new measures or complementary measures, the additional measures, will also be appropriate; of course, they will all be addressed and resolved. It's a simple and open system, as we've already said. It is set up so that any tenderer who appears on the market will look at the rules on how matters must be done and will be able to offer its programme or software solution. The most successful one will be the one who will offer the user the most friendly solution at a reasonable price. In addition, it is also the least available, which we have repeatedly talked about that the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia will have to provide free software for those who may be too small, unable to afford it or for some other reason cannot use it; that they will be able to use the one that will be developed by the Financial Administration. In this way we will also come up with more cost-effective solutions than they would have been; because the fact is that those cashiers who were physical should have certified hardware, certified software, it would be significantly easier to tailor them to any provider. You can't do that because it's an open system. As a result, it will also result in a significantly cheaper solution for the debtors than it would have been in other cases. It is also very welcome here that data are being uploaded to the Financial Administration, which means that you will no longer have to go into the field and review as has been the case in virtual cash registers so far, because, regardless of the totality, the data were on the debtor. This means that the inspector still had to physically come to the field, deal with them, or make a request, rescind those data and then theoretically use them in the office. However, it was not possible to mass-processing them, it is said systematically that an algorithm is used to determine, on the basis of some weights, some weights and pre-mentioned rules, whether a liability is more risky or less risky. And for those who give them a risk assessment, then a tax review will be carried out. And in this way, for the first time, there is no burden on those who do business honestly. On the other hand, all the force or intellectual capacity of inspectors and all of this begins to deal with those who do not operate exactly in accordance with the law, and those who may fall out, as you said, do not display invoices; the troublemakers, those whom this law, even if you would, cannot somehow address them. Complementary measures are complementary to that. As far as these measures are concerned, we have already begun this. It is not just tax revenue, it is also a matter of decommissioning inspectors, it is a matter of modernising the functioning of the Financial Administration, it is a matter of modernising control, it is a more advanced infringement detection system. As far as the prevention of black work and employment is concerned, however, it is worth mentioning that this is also indirectly limited, since there is one provision in this law which data are sent to the Financial Administration. Some information will also be sent on the basis of which it can be concluded whether a person is going or is operating in a field of employment in black or something like that. Why? Simply, when the system checks the various debtors, it will probably be relatively clear that someone who operates in a place may not be able to do twice as much traffic as his neighbor, who has all the employees, here at Ljubljana, however, with half the employees. That'll be some reason for things to start looking a little bit more at each other. Next, as far as undetected traffic and cash is concerned, I think that, nevertheless, those who operate on the edge or over the edge will have one option to close. It is said to correct these data and adjust them; from one field of possible leakages they emerge and thus go to another field. For that, there will be complementary measures, but this is not the same situation as we have, and some transfer pricing areas have been mentioned earlier. Transfer prices are one area you set up, and then they run to another area; but not to the other two or three, as they appear here in such simple business, but to the remaining twenty. Let's say derivatives, and things get more difficult there. In this situation, when we regulate cash transactions, there are no such advanced models, so they are also regulated in a simpler way. If we move forward, what are the additional effects that we are promising? If we look at parallels with Croatia, where employment in these industries has increased, it is estimated that about 4 thousand 100 people have increased by about 18%, the number of enterprises in this sector has increased, because, once again, the traffic that was not previously recorded has to be spent somehow on employment and possible investments, the renovation of restaurants, basic assets, perhaps the purchase of branches, whatever; with which investment facilities are also used, liquidity will improve. You know there are at least two problems in our area. The first relates to banks that do not grant loans. If it is a bad business, even at the expense of trying to hide a part of the traffic, it is difficult to obtain funds to invest. In addition, another interesting aspect is this, if there is increased liquidity in the transaction accounts, there will also be better payment capacity, which we somehow hope for. And if we look at some other effects in Croatia, let's say the average wages in the industry went up despite an increased number of employees. Traffic has increased, VAT revenue has increased. There are a few positive externalities, money comes into the system, it starts spinning in this system, it's bloated, and in several places we have all the benefits of it, entrepreneurs and employees, the country benefits from it, there are more pluses. As far as small commitments are concerned, if I go a little bit further, I would nevertheless highlight some of the advantages or some of the solutions, because the fact is that the small ones will be further burdened, and some of the ways in which they can be helped has to be found. The first is that there is a prior period of two years in which the debtor can voluntarily decide whether to go to real-time accounts validation, that is electronic validation or fiscalisation; or whether he will decide to use the bound account, which he will subsequently confirm. In these two years, we expect to improve the capacity of hardware and software, after all, some IT literacy of all those who are supposed to use it, some learning curve, and certainly a signal will improve. As you know right now, our mobile networks are being upgraded with new technology, which will increase the volume of data transmission, lower the price of transferred data, increase coverage with the signal. However, some practice will also be established in these two years, and this practice is also quite well exchanged between different associations. We are counting on it to get so far in two years that it will no longer be difficult to move on to a fully automated system. Next, I mentioned a free application earlier on Durs or the Financial Administration's website after the new one since they merged with Curs. Since the system is open in most cases or virtually all for these small debtors, it will be possible to do so with some applications or with an application on a mobile phone that will have a certificate loaded. If someone is empowered within society, they will eventually be able to do so in a relatively simple way. After all, every entrepreneur, a smaller one, who represents a huge cost, I also looked at these things in Croatia when I was down for the weekend, how this is being handled. And I came up with one case, and I think it was in Poreč when one gentleman sold more cases, and he was over seventy years old. He sold parking tickets, sold souvenirs and sold domestic products. But not the agricultural one, because they have an exception, but a variety of drinks and so on, as they usually do on the roads. All he had was a mobile phone, I won't say a mark, he bought it in a package for one euro, with a normal subscription of 12 euros, converted from kuna; and he had a printer for 45 euros. I asked him because he was an older gentleman, how he got used to it. He said the first thing, when they announced what they were going to do, I said I wouldn't work anymore, I'll retire, it'll be over, it'll be enough. And that's really what they've done with the final thing that I'm not gonna do anymore. And since he was still there, I asked him how it went, he said, "Yeah, nothing, I got this phone, look, I got it, I got it, here are the numbers, I hit it, and that's it. Here it goes, my bill goes, I've got it all recorded, I've lost my tickets before, that, that, that, third. And now things are working. Someone who said that it was not for me, I will not do it in any way, was already an older gentleman who, in terms of information literacy, might not have had such options because it is rapidly developing; yet he did, did, and does business; and also for some reasonable cost. From here on in, it is still appropriate to draw attention to some information. The Tax Procedure Act and the Value Added Tax Act define a particular case where the account does not need to be issued. Since the condition is prescribed in the law, you must display an invoice and pay in cash or with something that is considered cash. We have previously heard that the definition is relatively broad. In some cases, no invoices need be issued, these are different machines. In small, say, societies and so on, however, there are comparable situations where you have a membership fee when you have a grant payment; in such cases, the account is not displayed, which means that there is no obligation for someone to have a tax box. However, if there is a sale, it competes on the market – then yes, it is business after all. And if we move forward, as far as the vitality of this law is concerned, this is where we were supposed to be, or we were also thinking in the direction of what is happening in practice, that something will not be written, and then it will be determined that the debtors cannot use it. It's been said before, there's no signal somewhere, there's going to be a power outage somewhere, there's going to be machinery going to break down, whatever happens. It is to be noted that this is provided for in the law in different ways. If, say, a line falls, the accounts are still exposed because it would be completely illogical to prevent someone from doing business. If you have a full inn or sell, you have done some service as a craftsman, it would be completely lifeless for you to be unable to display an invoice at that time. You put it out, the moment the device connects to the Internet again, it will automatically fiscalize everything back. The second aspect, when the power runs out, then you have nothing, you are forced to take the pen and the block and write as it has done so far. And for these cases, it is anticipated that then within a few days everything will be fiscalized. Something was also said about punishment. We started this thought of how to close this triangle or circle; on the one hand we have the Financial Administration, on the other hand we have the buyer, on the third side we have the seller. All three are in charge or can influence whether or not someone will comply with their tax obligations or display an invoice. As if it is in the interest of the seller not to issue an invoice and no one warns him, not the financial administration or the buyer, in such a case it is significantly more likely not to issue an invoice. And it happens a lot when we prepare for this law and we talk to a lot of different obligors, they tell us that sometimes the buyers who pressure a supplier or a seller not to put out an invoice; if you give me an extra discount, because I don't need an account, you'll go to VAT. In fact, in most cases this does not work on VAT, especially for craftsmen, they buy with a 20% entry rate when they sell or install something, is 9%. There are no significant differences here, but then it's on income, on traffic. Nevertheless, it is worth stressing. That's why we kind of wanted to end this circle, one of them is this soft part, awareness, as told by NSI, this corner. We picture here mainly prize games, awareness and so on. On the other hand, there is a symbolic penalty of €40. As you know, there is a general Act on Offences that regulates the area of offences in this place. It's like a parking ticket, if you pay in eight days, that's half, that's 20 euros. In addition, the provisions of the Law on Offences also apply, which provides that an inspector may, in such a case, give only a reminder and no penalty for easier infringements. And we're going back to that field of awareness. This is what we would like to pursue, even with us, that the inspectors are aware that they know that they also have other opportunities, to try to warn, raise awareness of customers and thus influence tax culture in Slovenia. Some say we don't all have delinquents, actually. But there's something about them that's gonna have to be awakened somehow. And if we have 3 billion estimated grey economies, that's something; it's not just a marginal. In addition to those who do business fairly, it is necessary for those who want to do a little less fair business to ensure that they also do business fairly, since this also allows competitive conditions to be levelled and in this way they can compete in a healthy manner. If we move on to other measures, it has been said that this measure, which we have never said in the SMC, even as far as the coalition is concerned, or I have not heard from the government that this measure would now save everything for once. That's one thing. In addition, a number of complementary measures will be needed, but not all at once. We've done this, now others are coming. By the end of the year is quite a while, 2016 will be an interesting year. I believe that we will bring many more to this table where we will talk, we can accept and also somehow find common solutions that will be good. In addition, there must be some measures to be taken. I already mentioned the prize games, I mentioned the route that will be available on the website of the Financial Administration. In recent months I have been a little nervous because of the financial management website, because I thought it was a little less, I was used to the previous page of Durs because I was there a lot. [[…]] Somehow I've come to the point that it doesn't suit me or I haven't found the data I needed. I was just trying to find them. And look at the fraction, and in the meantime the Financial Administration has actually been working on it and is still working on it. That website at that time, from the beginning, I won't say much, because it didn't come from my difficulty, it also came from their initiative that this should be arranged, a lot of things that I've warned about before this warning came to them, have already been arranged. I believe that by the time the tax registers are introduced, this site will be really drunk, user-friendly, and it will also be quite extensive for the segment that will have these answers to many questions. A lot of criticism comes mainly from ignorance, perhaps misunderstanding, but it's not on the hostage's side. However, it is on the side of the State – the National Assembly, the Government and the Minister of Finance – that they begin to communicate as clearly as possible and as clearly as possible. Clearly and directly, the pledges know what awaits them, that it is no fun, no fun; but that we do things for their benefit and especially for them. As far as the commitments that are in here are concerned, in addition to the de-de-barcation on which it works, in addition to the restructuring of the tax burdens on which it also works, in addition to improving the way or quality or efficiency of tax collection, it also works on other matters, but it takes time. Now we've been here a year, since the election, we've been officially working for ten months, maybe eight months. You can't get rid of everything that fast. But we're working on it. As far as this marriage is concerned, I certainly support it. I'm also coming out of the area, I've been dealing with taxes in my previous life, it's close to me. Even when I was deciding whether to join the SMC or not, I was first looking at the program and the guidelines for taxes. Here I have seen certain solutions, including certain possibilities for improvement; and these are now happening. And that's why I'm still here. As regards some of the debates that have been held so far. One has already been said – we will not overwhelm the grey economy and work in black. Those who work in black and do not issue invoices, as I said before, will be able to give energy to others, with the modernisation of the financial management information system these reviews will be able to become significantly more targeted. If we have suddenly released 180 inspectors, well, a little less because they have something else to do. Let's say 50 inspectors, if they do two field inspections a week, you'll probably see that within three to four years they can visit virtually all the rainforests. It's a process that takes time. It will happen, culture will change, the structure and functioning of this tax system will change. As far as tax cuts are concerned, high taxes cause more tax evasion and vice versa. For the last time, I showed an interesting graph here because it made me a little angry to see it appear so vehemently. Red means lower tax rates, lower than the tax rate; here you have a grey economy. And what's interesting is that lower than taxes, higher is the gray economy. This comes from what we're looking at in the OECD, which means that probably the rabbit isn't in this bush. You may have relatively high taxes and a low grey economy. And why does that work? For two reasons. First, perception, what you get for this money, that's one thing. The other thing is how regulated the system is. Whether it is robust, whether it works, whether it is control, or whether awareness prevails among the committed, if something is done wrong, they will relatively quickly get it. This is not yet in Slovenia, but we are working to achieve this. Because once the system is robust, clear, and transparent, then the ostracism is gone. Not only is it because the debtors would be so honest, but most of them are; but for the minority part where the stick is needed and because they realize that such action is unacceptable and that they will be relatively quickly found, detected and also sanctioned for what they do wrong. As for the closure, I think I have already said everything with examples from Croatia, there has also been said that there will be a 20% drop in businesses in this business. 18% went up. They said 4,000 less employees in these industries. There were 4 thousand 100 more employees in these industries. A lot of things have been said. Average wages went up in these industries, and investments went up. This chain has come to a close, and all of this has also pulled other activities behind it to make it work better now. As regards Slovenia's non-covery with the Internet, technology is improving, in the future it is not necessary for someone to obtain the Akos certificate because they can make a voluntary decision. In two years, however, Akos will also have to determine how he will ensure this. If it is found that this is not possible or that there is no good to be done, we are the legislative authority, we can still drink some things in this law within a reasonable period of time if it really comes to the conclusion that the matter is hopeless. That statement was also a good one — a death blow to the grey economy. So any measure that is less than the halving of the grey economy is nothing. That's right, didn't we? That's one thing. To achieve a 50% impact, you need to take some action. The fact is, however, that with a set of measures, more than will be covered by more grey fields, the extent of the grey economy will be excessively reduced. The first measure reduces only as much as it decreases. We can only evaluate it on the basis of this first measure, we cannot write in law that the impact will be one billion if we have only one measure. Nor can we simultaneously assess all other measures. I expect, however, that with other complementary measures, the impact will be higher than or for this particular case or for this specific proposal of the law. Further, as regards the need to be a stick and a root, it was again in this sense – from 100 to 400 employees. Yes, bureaucracy in Slovenia is quite widespread, we are aware of that. What I can say is that we're working on this, no matter what area we're more engaged in, here at SMC, as well as the coalition. That's the problem, but you can't get him out of here fast. My nono always said that no thing can be done quickly or there – I think someone said the last time – where the emperor goes by himself. And the fact is, we need more time to do that. We need another year, two, three. It's also said that you don't need any analysis, but you don't have to think about it. That's why we need time, we're working on it, it's one measure, followed by the other. As far as electronic commerce is concerned, I think there's been a little misunderstanding that we've been dealing with. As soon as that was published, we just threw ourselves in and started to see if it was true or not true, in which case it held, in which case it was not true. We found out the next thing. That this was probably a minor misunderstanding. We did not deal with payment processors, so that Paypalu or Paysaf or any of these organisations that process online payments would tell me how to process it. We have dealt with the account, and this is separate from processing online payments. And there's another thing. The bulk of these online payments goes through intermediaries that are considered in some way like banks, which do not need to be fiscalised. It is necessary to scale up the second part where a similar situation of card payments, credit cards, occurs. We have dealt with this, discussed it, and concluded that this should not be such a problem. It is true that we will have to upgrade the process of issuing invoices; it is not about changing the integral part of their revenue collection or charging, it is said, processors, payments occurring online. As it is said, I will be happy to support the marriage with an optimistic outlook. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u157	Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u158	Thank you. All those who accompany this meeting are respected! We see that the matter is complex, that this part of the tax box is just one small stone in the mosaic of the whole problem. It depends on how we look at statistics; some statistics show a smaller percentage of the grey economy, some larger. I, in theory and in my research, find that the grey economy is just one segment of the informal economy. As an informal economy, I summarise all activities of first black economy, which means what is forbidden and already not subject to tax, these are usually all criminal activities. Then we have the grey economy that we are talking about today, the activity itself is usually allowed, but this activity is not subject to tax. Then we have a white economy, which is also allowed, but it is what has already been mentioned, the relocation of industry, derivatives and other new financial products. This is a huge amount of money that runs out of taxes. And if I sum up all of these research activities that we have done in the world and also with the European Union, these percentages are 25% further. For transit countries, we are even bigger, we are going to the underdeveloped countries, to Africa, and also to 50%. And now we are dealing with the segment, and the government correctly notes that other measures will be needed. If we do not take these measures at once, people will not trust these measures. I therefore expect the remaining measures to be followed as soon as possible. We forget something, we forget that we are witnessing many migrations, migrants as such coming to the promised countries to work. They're looking for work. Who can offer them a job? Just an informal economy. Here we have a triangle of migrants, employers and those who lead these people into the promised land. We are already late for action because the wave of refugees is already running through us, or if I go further, there is supply and demand in this area. [[Incomprehensible]] We can't just deal with supply or just demand, but we need to look at things in a complex way. I look forward to action as soon as possible, including on the issues raised. The role of the State is to limit the informal economy, but not to promote it by its actions. And if I conclude that measures are to date focused only on the area of the grey economy, that is, to a large extent, affected people who are at the edge of survival and are saving their social status through the informal economy. We need to offer them a concrete way out so that they can survive, because the government's actions are going in this direction, that the formal economy, the legal one, is becoming increasingly similar to the informal economy. We are witnessing forms of work that are increasingly similar to informal forms of work; and workers have fewer rights and thus are saving their lives with an informal economy. Only a unilateral measure, which constitutes a repressive intervention, will not give the desired measures unless, on the other hand, in the formal economy, we offer people the chance of survival. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u159	Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With the last sentence, my colleague, Mr Bojan Dobovška, I fully agree. However, I would like to point out in the introduction to my colleague from the SMC; I think Mrs Vraničar has made an extremely large positive advertisement, as far as this law is concerned. I mean - in a negative way. I think today was a gentleman's performance — but I'm sorry that he went out — a real example of a pure bureaucrat who has absolutely nothing to do with the reality of this life, absolutely absolutely nothing. And I also kindly ask Members and Members to ask themselves a little questions before they discuss it this way – quite inanimate. Ladies and gentlemen, let us look at the short history of our Slovenia. Let's look at the bank hole, 6 billion, let's look at the thefts that happened when our entire highway system was running. Then let's look at TES 6, here we can talk about the billions of euros that have been stolen in this country. And we're hunting back chicken thieves instead of dealing with those who are the biggest thieves in this country. That's amazing. Mrs Vraničar said today that they expect the positive impact of this law to be close to EUR 100 million per year. I don't think that's gonna happen. But let us recalculate the 7,8 billion that have been stolen, 80 or 70 years each year, 100 million euros each year, if this gang has been exposed to the theft of the entire country. And we wouldn't have to hunt a chicken thief. And one more thing, people wouldn't avoid taxes, paying taxes if they could survive. Mr Dobovšek said things very specifically earlier. We would not use such and different solutions on the one hand. On the other hand, he also spoke about what I fully agree with him. Today we have people on minimum wage who can't survive. They simply come into the story and nothing legally; instead of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the coalition working hard to ensure that this area is regulated, that people can normally live to create conditions for economic development, to develop the economy, so that there is no constant majority on the minimum wage, to produce pensioners who retire at 40 years of age, who cannot survive, get 420 or 450 euros of pension or 500. I was just on the ground yesterday, and these poor pensioners with 400, 300 euros say they haven't even received that poor supplement 200, 300 or 400 euros this year, as far as they can get to go to sea for three days. It's embarrassing what kind of government we have. It's embarrassing. And today I have heard that only somewhere near July's salary will they receive this contribution. Besides, it doesn't fit in this marriage. I'm sorry. I had to say it because it saddens me. That's amazing. And here sits the customer Desus, who holds his head down and his hand over his face so that the pensioner does not look them in the face and see the true truth of their representation, their interests to the poorest in this country. This seems important to me, but my colleagues from Desus, to stand up here, not for the privileged, but for the 15,000 who were born after the year 50, who receive a thousand 470 euros in pension; 15 thousand who were born after the year 50, please. Mr President, I am going back to the debate on this law. Here I cannot go beyond not taking into account the opinion of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia. And I've said it many times before. I think that the government and the coalition that prepared this law should be aware of and certainly should be able to talk to them when they were preparing this solution. Mr Meh, President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, said: "Tax registers will have no impact on the grey economy, but they mean an additional burden on the economy." That's what I was talking about before. That's his quote. And I quote further. "The introduction of cash registers indicates a lack of confidence in politics in our economy," added the President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia. "The cashiers will only be affected by honest entrepreneurs who issue bills. Those cockroaches who work in black and don't issue bills, they won't feel any consequences," he is sure. "Traffickers and small entrepreneurs operating in cash have therefore always opposed the introduction of cash registers," he added. Next sentence: "Every two years a new cash register." Meh recalled that in 2013 they introduced virtual cash registers, which meant additional burden on the Slovenian small economy, then brought an additional EUR 100 million plus into the budget. "An additional reserve that could still be squeezed out of a small entrepreneur is no longer available," he is convinced. And I think that the President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry is very clear and a little wrapped up in telling the real truth that we will now push those small entrepreneurs and craftsmen who cannot survive normally into total poverty or the Employment Institute at any given time. And who's gonna pay for that? The ones with the minimum wage, the few hundred thousand people who are still employed right now. I think we're in a situation where we can't afford to burden ourselves again and again. Above all, I expect the government and the coalition to come to the National Assembly with measures that will positively affect the conditions for these craftsmen and entrepreneurs who still live in our society to be able to employ additionally. And that's the only way. There's no one else. With all the additional administrative or other and other measures that go against the development of entrepreneurship and craftsmanship, I think we will slowly come to the truth lovingly in one gap from which this country will definitely not be able to escape. In addition to taking into account here how the relationship between employees and pensions is collapsing. Today it was said that someone had already said what time we would arrive at result 1: 1 — one pensioner per employee. How damn important it is that we create in that area, adopt and come up with measures, this government and this coalition, to hire as many employees as possible, if on the other hand the number of pensioners on the other hand is rising sharply. To maintain this relationship or to improve this employment-oriented relationship. Today it has been heard that this law is oh and even the best, the most quality, will help everyone and everyone that I do not know, in any other way, I do not understand what the gentleman was saying. [[…]] Here I have a record received by the Mountain Union of Slovenia, the Association for Sport of Disabled Persons of Slovenia – Paralympic Committees, the Olympic Committees of Slovenia – Association of Sports Unions, Bojan Rotnik, Damian Lazar, Bogdan Gabrovec and all other societies in this country that are affected by this law. We have already gone too far with the very laws in the field of restrictions that all societies already have. If you look at the other side, how in Austria this can work, how societies function normally there; I'm talking about firefighting societies, about sports and cultural societies, I'm talking about all other societies. And with each new move, we put extra burden on or disable the normal functioning of societies in our society. And look at what they wrote, and I'm going to quote you all, including Mrs. Vranic. "Dear Sirs, we are addressing you with the aim of clarifying the intended effects in the event of the adoption of the proposed Bill of Account Validation. The proposed introduction of tax registers deeply interferes with the work of sports companies, which are more than seven thousand in Slovenia. In sports societies, Slovenian athletes are chastised, and then they bring great results, and in sports societies they are joined by recreational people who promote an ever-increasing circle of people for active life and take trips and recreational competitions, sports camps for young people and others. The proposal lays down a level playing field with respect to tax receipts for gainful legal persons and non-profit societies. If the law is adopted in such a text, companies will have to provide transferable tax receipts via mobile internet for the organisation of trips and sports activities in order to be able to bill the participants on the bus, at the starting point of trips, at the gym or at the playground. In addition, the bill provides that each debtor will provide a prior notification of the place of business or location where the accounts will be issued. Even in the case of the use of the bound account book and the subsequent validation of accounts over the Internet, this means a huge additional burden on societies. We note that the measure to introduce tax cans for companies is disproportionate, as it will no longer constitute tax revenue for the country, since companies are largely not VAT-bound. It will focus on major additional administrative constraints and costs. Such legislative changes do not follow the National Programme for the Development of Sport, the Strategy for the Development of Tourism and other country guidelines with a view to increasing the welfare of citizens through the promotion of the non-governmental sector. All the positive effects of the operation of voluntary societies which, through their programme and work, take care of the recreation and health of people and infrastructure in the public interest are overlooked. If there is a single awareness of the importance and contribution of sports societies and societies in general, we must ensure that the legislation also supports their work and the will to volunteer. We believe that it is better for many volunteers in sport to focus their time on substantive work rather than additionally filling out accounts forms." I don't think what they wrote down is enough to add. Today, however, I expect Mrs Vraničar to respond to these dilemmas, regardless of how we are in the second reading, because I think that today many of the presidents of society are accompanying this meeting and he wonders how things are going to unfold here. It would be right to pour pure wine and that those bureaucrats who have spoken here today, how this law is even and oh; also Mrs. Vraničar will point out through what we got on the table, that everything is not so oh and at all the best. And that even in the coalition you reconcile views of certain problems or also of the legislation you adopt; that we listen to one version on the one hand and on the other hand quite differently. I will support the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party. As we have already said, all those we have discussed so far, even in the first reading, we will not absolutely support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u161	The word has magic. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u162	Thank you, President. At his hearing in the National Assembly at the Finance Committee, Mr Maramor said that the condition for improvement or for the success of Slovenia, for the break-in of Slovenia, for improving the economic environment and for improving the conditions of the economy; that is, the sector that creates it. Here I have a handbook of the 2015 Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise which has probably listened to Mr Marble at this hearing. She gave these exact words as the title of this chamber; that is, for a better business environment. Here, too, the obvious understanding between the economy or craftsmen and the marbles ends. Economists are the ones who serve who make money; entrepreneurs are the ones who create it, and the finance minister is the one who spends it in some way. And if I have an opinion on the one hand on the same subject that makes money, that is, the one who does it in the way of his face, and on the other hand the one who spends it; I will probably believe the one who creates it. And he who creates sends 10 to the finance minister to request Slovenian craft and entrepreneurship 2015. And the first in this series of ten is the different installation of tax receipts. Different installation of tax receipts. Let me point out that this chamber was later created as an initial proposal for the introduction of the Ministry of Finance's tax repositories. So the direct response of those who create is to the wishes of those who spend. And if I'm to be convinced by some imaginary brandy salesman on the Croatian coast who's so pleased that he can pay taxes and send his own taxes on the phone; or the Chamber of Commerce, then let me trust our entrepreneur rather than that imaginary salesman on the street. Really, I'd rather. This is black in white, or if I am accurate, blue in white; but the only thing left is the word of Mr Christmas today at the meeting. Among other things, Mr Bozič has also made a bold claim that as taxes go down, tax evasion increases that the OECD has said so. I hope that he did not receive these findings from the pendulum, for there he can easily turn around. If you're copying wrong, maybe the wrong conclusion comes up, the opposite is true. Now, as far as tax problems are concerned. Members rarely receive so many letters, but as far as tax receipts are concerned, we must all be honest that we have many received them. And each of these has somehow told us that this measure does not solve the problem of tax evasion, if I am very abstract. No, this measure only touches those who do business fairly. And already virtual tax receipts allow that if - I will not use the word dacar, Madam Secretary of State, but the tax supervisor, will that be okay? – comes to an entrepreneur or some owner of a place, can directly copy all account information on the site and thus exercise full control. And we all know that in all these controls that have been done so far, the financial gain of the battle has been small. And because the battles are small, because they are kind of honest people, because they are not those who hide, who hide, who don't issue bills; and the proceeds that the government assumes are relatively small. That is why I am also joining the opinion of those who say that this measure is disproportionate and that the government for me is an unknown reason, because it is the easiest thing to do, to use only this instrument strongly; not some positive incentive. This positive incentive is given to you or proposed by craftsmen, i.e. those who create. Among other things, when they themselves talk about proposals for a more effective recovery – I hope, Minister of Finance, that you have reviewed it – they offer you over 16 measures; and among other things, the list of rules that need to be amended – 38 rules. There is no Law on tax clearance of accounts among them. So again, some government action that goes beyond what the economy expects of it. Earlier, my colleague Pojbič spoke about the letter, I only read the conclusion once more, namely the Mountain Association, the sports union of disabled people and so on, involving 7,000 athletes. "If the proposal is not taken into account, there is a high likelihood that the activity will fall significantly in small companies in particular." At the previous point, we heard about the strategy of Desus' representatives fighting for those sports clubs because the Insurance Company Triglav gives them funding. The heart of a divisive story, how without state ownership in the Triglav Insurance Company, the entire sport will fail. Here you have a statement from the Olympic Committee and other societies that this will endanger the sports development of young people and also professional sports; now you are silent. At the first reading, Mrs Vraničar said in this infamous article 12, which also held the buyer as a tailor, that he would also hold the account and prove that he was honest. She said, quote, "The buyer is complicit." So the buyer is the accomplice, guilty in this tax evasion. At the time, while he was guilty of up to EUR 400, the government now believes he is still guilty, but he is ten times less guilty. But he's still guilty. He's still complicit. So it's still this "you, you, Lump," we're the government not hoping to chase him down with up to 400 euros, but with a ten times lower amount. Here, I agree with Mr Meho, with the President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, who says, I quote: "In addition, the country by punishing consumers if they do not keep your accounts, literally redirects consumers to slumbers." Of course, because now it is also in the interest of the buyer not to get the bill, because then it will not cost him 40 euros. In the previous case, if he bought a product legally with a legal tenderer, he had to keep that account during the guarantee period, otherwise Furs would tax him or take his extra 40 euros. But if he doesn't have an account, he doesn't have a guarantee, but it won't cost him another 40 euros. At the same time, remember how many competitors on the market are also using the option of extending the guarantee to attract customers. Now, after a new one, if this product isn't too valuable, if it's not exactly a car, you don't need to extend the guarantee, because if you have an extended guarantee, the tax officer can ring the doorbell five years later and ask you where you have your alarm clock guarantee. Nobody's gonna have it then. And now it's just that there's a lot of demagogism on the part of the government. The government is also not harmonised in this proposal. Earlier, a colleague of Christmas said that technology had progressed so much that today we could afford tax receipts. He referred to e-commerce as already developed and new technologies as a purely normal requirement for everyone to have this tax box. Here I have a plan for the development of the next generation broadband networks by 2020. March 2015, this year, I think we agree with the coalition and the opposition. Here you will read on page nine the following words: "In the EU, the average coverage of 97% households with a standard broadband network exceeds 99% coverage in twelve Member States. We have the lowest coverage of Slovakia, Estonia, Poland and Slovenia," now the substance, "which also has very low availability of standard fixed broadband connections in rural areas – 74% and even less." Next: "Only according to the above can we find that in rural areas the availability of broadband infrastructure is unacceptable." This is your ministry, MIZH says in March, and you will come up with a proposal by 31 May. 12. 2017 already requires the use of all of these. While this document predicts an improvement in infrastructure by state investment only in 2020, two years after you have already requested it in legislation. If the government alone cannot reconcile the two pillars, if the government is in a hurry, and does not take into account the strategic documents proposed by other ministries, then I do not know what else a craftsman can do when he sees that he is ruling, instead of going to meet him, even if he is using his money, only makes life more bitter every day; but does not do his own work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u163	A replica? Mr. Tillen Christmas has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u164	Thank you for your word. In some cases, I'd be a little misunderstood. It was said that I was supposed to make a mistake, reverse the data, and come to the wrong conclusions. First of all, this is not the conclusion of the OECD, it was my conclusion. I looked at the tax rates in individual countries and what a comparable percentage of the grey economy is. For the time being, in this national council, I don't even know what to do with the setup and collages that someone else might be. As far as the other thing is concerned, technology. You mentioned broadband, and I have really defined myself in my speech, but the fact is that this transmission of data and the amount of data that is required here does not require a broadband transmission, but a smaller one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u165	Mr. Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u166	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I am sure that we can all agree in this Chamber that the grey economy is one of the pressing problems that we are dealing with, that it is worth a few billion euros and that it must somehow be limited or eradicated. There are different ways to eradicate it. We have different options available and there is always a carrot and a stick. In this case, the ruling coalition has decided on the stick and proposes the introduction of tax registers. Respected colleagues and colleagues, tax collectors – as you can see in your own statement – will not reduce the grey economy. Moreover, in my personal opinion, they will even be able to increase it. Why, I'll tell you later. At the same time, however, we must reiterate that the tax returns represent nothing more than a new tax or a new burden for those who create added value — entrepreneurs. More for rural areas, small businesses, craftsmen; they are a new burden for these people. See also the indicators of how much the Republic of Slovenia pays now and how much Slovenian craftsmen and entrepreneurs are taxed. Then start doing European comparisons. And you will soon find that the Republic of Slovenia is among the most taxed countries or that tradesmen are among the most taxed throughout the European Union. You yourself have said that the effect is negligible – between €50 million and €100 million. We are punching entrepreneurs with a bat for between €50 million and €100 million of an impact that we are going to get in the budget into the cash register, while we have a few billion in grey economies. And the craftsmen, who will accept this today, can rightly ask for a healthy farm. Colleagues and colleagues, which is the most ridiculous at the same time, are also not going to force anyone to issue accounts. For example, Tillen Christmas comes to the market for ice cream in Ljubljana. Ice cream – whether it hits the cashier or not to hit the cashier. The tax will only limit the fact that he'll count if he hits, he won't wipe it back. This also emphasizes that you will not automatically raise your bill if you go to the store. The solution we have presented several times in Novi Slovenija. To the tax office, the solution is to ensure that entrepreneurs do not delete the accounts back, including flat-rate taxation. Let me also stress this, with tax receipts also in some way, which is why I say that the grey economy can be increased, and in some ways those who operate legally, who also legally issue accounts and have legally registered companies, are also being burdened. But on the other hand, they don't hurt those who make noise. Those who represent those who are legally engaged, illegal competition, unfair competition. There's the most gray economy, not among these honest people. And I don't judge the woodsmen, and there are many who are in distress looking for a solution, so they use the afternoon work and so on. But instead of offering the shushmars a carrot with a stimulating tax policy, we discourage them from officially and legally opening up their business by predicting tax receipts. I propose to the Government, as a solution, that you do not say that we are only criticising, I propose measures that will also encourage slums to decide and open their businesses; not that they will have another reason not to open up businesses. And that represents tax receipts. In the future, the tax box office will have only one more reason that those who are unfair competitors to entrepreneurs will not open their businesses but could. I just went to see what it was like abroad. There are more grey economies abroad according to statistics in countries where taxes are higher. And so it will be in Slovenia, or it already is. Higher than taxes, it's more of a gray economy, because people avoid paying taxes because they're too burdened. And the tax returns would not be necessary if that pressure to issue the invoice was not so burdensome. For this reason, let us consider how we will use incentives to relieve entrepreneurs with stimulating tax policy rather than burden them with additional burdens. As I said before, lower taxes are a fundamental reform of tax legislation. I suggest, Madam Secretary of State, that we reintroduce the game Every account counts. It's stimuli. Each account assumes that we, the ones who take the account into the store, will have the opportunity to have a reward; not that we will be punished with €40 if we do not keep the account and we will not take it. It's a stick again instead of a carrot. And once again, flat-rate taxation. A flat-rate tax instead of this tax liability, on the basis of profits, capital generated by a particular undertaking, as well as flat-rate taxation on the basis of the type of activity that a particular undertaking carries out. In this way we will collect much more taxes and reduce the grey economy than in the way I have already said, rods. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u167	Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u168	Thank you, President, for your word. 14 days ago, I was asked by the regional media to comment on the acceptance of these so-called tax registers, and I wrote the title "Decreasing Grey Economy or Hunting Witches". And today, when I listen to representatives, rarely, by the coalition, I feel more and more that this other direction is more right, that is, the witch hunt. When I talk to individuals, what is their concern about taking an account when they go to a meeting to buy cigarettes or a weekly diary; or when I talk to craftsmen, mostly with innkeepers, hairdressers and everyone else, as well as when I talk to colleagues who work on the Financial Administration and do not sit in offices, but when they are on the ground where they face 10 different cases every day, how the neighbor is soliciting or how the other Slovenians in our own custom cause the Financial Administration; they themselves agree that this law, after we have had SDK, we destroyed it when we have virtual goods, and obviously there are not enough stimulants for this country, the state has to invent tax collectors, because obviously the principle of what the state invents it pays. I am only referred to this second paragraph, which we are talking about, namely, cash payments. I'm sorry, I'm not over 80 years old to be able to talk about healthy farming and tradition, but if the government writes down – cash payments are payments with banknotes and coins that are in circulation as a means of payment. Here, on the proposal of the SDS amendment, a dot would be made. The Government notes, however, that cash payments are also other payment methods that are not direct transfers to the transaction account; payments with a payment card or credit card, cheque or other similar payment methods. Ask the ordinary citizen what cash payment is for him. And if you tell him that a cash payment under this law is also a payment with a payment card or a credit card or a check, he will ask you after the CAP; under the basic law – a healthy farmer's mind. I will not now talk about practices from abroad and that my personal opinion is that flat-rate taxation or low taxes and high penalties, which many modern countries have, are also suitable for Slovenia, which is now a modern state; but with legislation that is unfortunately contrary to the coalition contract of this government, which says that we will no longer be taxing people, craftsmen, economists and so on – that is exactly what you are doing. Previously, you said that the system was quite complete, but how tax money was completed, if you didn't know or know how much the introduction of each tax box would cost. One says 20, one says 200. This morning, representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia headed by the President and Director were in the parliamentary group. When we are under point Miscellaneous, because we had some other things, we asked, and you tell us how much the tax office will cost; but they winked a little bit and said: the government is between 20 and 200, and they say 300 euros on the ground, one says more. But it's a complete system where we don't even know how much tax money will cost. Since we are already in Article 2, cash payment, whatever it takes, I postpone or believe that this coalition will be so smart that by 2017, if you last until then, you can inject one chip into all citizens, and we will just go through the chip through the cash register and we will be somehow through tax or human payments or I don't know what kind of cash we are paying. You write it down nicely in theory, practice demeans you. Not only that, half your legal theory is illogical. I'll only stay with Article 2 myself, and then maybe if there's some time left. Dearly beloved, cash payments cannot in any way be the same as payment with a payment card or credit card. I'll only tie myself to one place if someone goes to the party. We have a 12th article on what business space is. Someone wants to organize a party or a social event, not just in the field of sports, we also have cultural events, tourist events, young people organize a lot of things. And now it's got to be instead of some normal, I say, Austrian model without an account, because legal entities solve it with flat-rate taxes, you get the bill. You turn around, you meet a colleague at this event, or maybe, God forbid, you go even to the bathroom or something, the inspector comes along, takes a picture of you and says, "Mr. Lisec, where's your account?" Yeah, of course, that's when I was thinking about taking the bill. I left him there, I went there – and of course the citizen of Fox will pay the fine. This is about natural persons, or a small penalty of €40, but when we read these criminal provisions of yours, they're insane. I think that Minister of the Jews has certainly been involved in this law, because his laws end with the fact that we have nicer and worse penalties, and this government has found a fine for particularly serious offences that it does not even define. If the offence referred to in Article 19 of this Law is particularly serious due to the amount of damage caused — otherwise the damage caused to an entrepreneur is EUR 5,000 and some tycoon may also survive — and for a particularly serious offence, a special fine. The speciality of this government – for offences under this law, a fine may also be imposed in the swift procedure of the offence in an amount higher than the minimum prescribed fine laid down by this law. This means that if one John doesn't like the inspector, he'll get a five-fold basic penalty, but if France is sympathetic to that inspector, he'll only get a basic sentence. Even for so-called particularly serious offenses. In short, the complete system, full of uncertainty – what are the fines, how big are they, what does this mean for the organizers of individual events; not to write down what government obligations are, but only the debtors, the debtors. Electronic commerce in a wide range of parts of our country, even though we do not have a broadband network, even if we have a simple internet, as members of the coalition say, because it is enough if we take the picture five minutes off the Internet, it will already; but there will be no government obligations. The government's obligation could at least be a step towards citizens and legal persons in order to provide free electronic devices to all the debtors, at least something could be done. So much confusion in this beautiful atmosphere, how this government reduces the gray economy. As formerly said by my colleague Susanna, we will probably end up there; as much as the introduction of tax registers will cost both financial law and users, there will be a ransom on the other hand. A lot of smoke for nothing, a new law and a good pianist experiment, which in practice will have more than catastrophic consequences for citizens; in particular for legal persons, especially for craftsmen and economists, which this government is supposed to be so close to them. And with every law, it pushes them more into the limits of action when they wonder whether it is worth acting in this Slovenia, where you pay the penalty if you forget an account; whether you prefer to go a few kilometers north, to Austria and have a normal tax environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u169	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State has asked for the floor. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u170	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll start with maybe a bit of a bold statement. In fact, when you talk about how much additional costs these business entities have, in the current regime, completely unregulated systems of issuing accounts and unregulated accounting records, when you talk about how much extra costs these business entities have, because in this case alone, this law requires that everything be built from scratch. If these debtors have developed their information solutions in a way that prevents data change or records any change in data – and there will be no confusion – this was an obligation before 1 July 2013 – then the only obligation that this law imposes on them is the Financial Administration to obtain the identification number of each account. Situations between individual debtors are very different, some have contracts to maintain their information equipment in such a way that such upgrades will cost nothing. Others who have relied on written accounts will have to invest more; most of all, those who have wanted to do things in their own way so far will be forced by the law to make matters more manageable. This law and this way of regulating accounts not only means a greater obligation for the taxpayer, but also means greater internal control in the business itself, the possibility of control, or an individual employee may attempt to exploit the position it has with regard to the employer. That's what's going on. This is similar to the introduction of value added tax, where internal relations in a variety of elements have been cleared by a number of points. And another addition to value added tax. Even when we introduced VAT, the law contained a provision that the buyer was obliged to take the account and keep it with him when he left the business space. And it was also a financial penalty, or fine, if he did not do so. That was totally acceptable back then. Today is the biggest crap we can make up. I do not know what has changed in these few years since 1999 when VAT was introduced. As far as the prize game is concerned, I mentioned at the first reading that we are planning it, but this prize game does not need a legal provision, a legal mandate. At organisational level, its implementation is being prepared. A few more words regarding the penalties and the claims made by Mr Lisco. As in any other case, the penal provisions of this law must be read in conjunction with the Law on Offences. The Act on Offences shows very precisely why it is necessary to establish particularly serious offences, under which conditions they can be determined and in which cases an inspector who imposes fines may impose a fine higher than that prescribed as a minimum by law. And it is not about any flat-rate solutions to inconsistencies or even the discretionary rights of financial inspectors; it is a regulated system, as we know in tax and other regulations. With regard to flat-rate taxation. The flat-rate taxation may again be addressed to another segment. You will recall that last year, on the nose, there was a raised limit to which flat-rate taxation can be applied; and this year we received the first invoices in this regard. But despite all of this, a very small number of debtors from those who could use this regime have decided to use it. For this reason, we want to carefully analyse the reasons why the existing flat-rate regime has not come to life as it was a wish in 2012 when it was renewed; and to upgrade it accordingly. We've been told that we haven't talked enough with the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. We have talked, we have heard each other, and also because we have heard the demands of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, we have insisted that the exceptions to the obligation to confirm accounts must be very restrictive in this law. One of the requirements of the Chamber of Commerce was that, if the registers were already in place, they should be introduced for all. And we must not forget that, to a certain extent, individual sports societies can also represent competition for very small entrepreneurs. As far as sports companies are concerned, they, as with others, are obliged to confirm accounts only where the sale of goods and services is concerned. When it comes to field events, such as a mountain trip or some other trip, it is possible to subsequently confirm these accounts within ten days of the trip being completed. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u171	Thank you very much. I conclude that there is still an interest in the debate. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u172	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! Today it is a year ago when we were elected by the well-respected electorates and voters for this national assembly. In two hours, we were all elected. And after one year, we're preparing a gift for them. In that election campaign, when we listened to each other, we promised how we would help the economy in particular and how we would help and work for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Mr. Tillen Christmas, I must say, I'm very surprised to see you today. I have a lot of respect for you, but with such inspiration when you talked about these tax boxes today, I must admit, if 10% of this energy were to be used to relieve the economy this year, it would probably be a little different in the Republic of Slovenia. I also have to admit that I went to see what work you were doing before you came to the National Assembly. I figured it was your job to know. I don't mean to be mean, but if your ex-party listened to you today, you must have lost some client. That's not what I want. I want to say the following: I was at an event in a municipality in a square where they've been fighting for a long time to be in that facility. It was an event that was the only big one in the year. When we were sitting on the terrace of this place at midnight, three or four came in and said they were inspectors. They blocked all the cash registers, all the waiters had to bring the wallets, and this action lasted an hour and a half. Somehow I couldn't understand, of course, as a non-expert in this area, that when someone works, when an entrepreneur works when they were guests, this huge action is being carried out. But it's probably in such a way that this marriage is so directed, and I kind of accepted it. I had a chance to talk to the inspector of neighbouring Austria a month ago, near Beljak is home. I was interested in this relationship between the tax inspector and the entrepreneur, the inn, and the one he's controlling. I was very surprised at three facts. When this inspector said that when he does this job, he always wonders how he feels about the company, and he knows that if that company wasn't successful, he wouldn't have a salary, too, a personal income. Every time he does this job, even when he comes to the company, or to a restaurant, or to an ice-cream shop, he always feels some kind of relationship between them and this company. This seemed very positive to me, because when we are talking about tax boxes today, I personally claim that this is a burden for the economy. We are not able to make taxes in the Republic of Slovenia for all those who do not pay them. We are not so fierce there, but today, when we put a new burden on small entrepreneurs on their backs, we put additional burdens on the economy and further examine those citizens and citizens who are honest, who are working fairly and also paying fair taxes. The secretary of state can say it well, she can say it so beautifully that a person would almost buy it; but that's not always the case. This is a burden on the economy and this is a burden for our citizens and citizens, so I will vote against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u174	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! I must admit that it is extremely difficult to discuss this law when, on the one hand, we know that we have recently donated the New Credit Bank of Maribor and the Postal Bank for 1.4 billion euros; this law is intended to raise, say, 70 million annually, which means that by recording and collecting taxes more accurately, we would try to make up for this loss in the course of 20 years. This is an extremely bitter taste, but nevertheless, in the context of the harmonisation and drafting of the final text of the Tax Procedure Act, we have also tried to draw the attention of the Social Democrats to some too strict conditions that have been applied to individuals. The buyer should keep an account with him anywhere on the street after the original proposal. Whenever the inspector came and demanded an account, he should have submitted this account to him; if he did not have it, he would have paid the penalty of EUR 40. This measure is reduced, if I may say so, in such a way that the buyer of the goods or the recipient of the service takes over and retains the account and has it directly to the exit from the place where the purchase took place. There the inspector can perform a check, whether he has an account or not, and not later. We believe that this solution is much more vital and that we do not, in our view, interfere too much with human rights and freedoms. The second thing that seemed extremely important to us and we tried and also somehow realized is that after unnecessary additional records do not increase the costs of utilities, energy, as well as telecommunications services, because all of these costs would be transferred to the bill paid by consumers. Since it is the traceability of these accounts, it is known how much the counter weighs and how much you receive on the basis of this; therefore, we believe that there is a minimum or no option to avoid payment of the account. As a result of this traceability, we insisted that utilities and telecommunications services be excluded from the tax box system. I believe that this has also saved the household and the economy a great deal. These are two brighter points of our efforts in this law. As I said, however, there remains an extremely bitter taste because we have an extremely restrictive approach to businesses, businesses. A completely disproportionate approach is when we talk about how we sell our assets. Another area remains, and I agree that this law does not save everything, but we must admit that very much money lands from Slovenia in tax havens. We are also extremely unsuccessful here how this money is taxed, which is leaking in very large quantities; not only from Slovenia, but also from other countries. This is a common problem, which obviously is not hoped for or cannot be solved in an effective way, however we can read. And all too much tax then slowly falls on the little man and on the small businesses, the craftsmen, which they also pointed out at the Chamber of Commerce. We are all too close to the largest transactions, which also take the most funds from each country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u175	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u176	As it turns out, Secretary of State of Vraničarova is the Secretary of State for Special Missions; don't blame me, I'm really showing her respect. If you remember it from your previous term, then you will know that it was one of the few who advocated the property tax. Now he has to defend tax receipts; in short, really unpleasant things. And if anything, then we can certainly show her a little admiration, even if we disagree with her. At least I don't agree with tax receipts, I have to make that clear. I don't think the tax office will solve the problem. I understand the Government's intention to obtain as much money as possible from citizens for the budget; I can also understand that it does not trust citizens and therefore introduces tax remittances. This, however, does not seem to me to be a proportionate measure, nor does it seem to me that I need a measure to fill the state budget with a number of budgetary inflows. I even think that when we finally look at the proceeds, there will be no significant difference; perhaps even when we take into account all the costs incurred by the tax box, even in the minus. I'm sure you'll ask me what you're proposing in New Slovenia. We have a very simple and simple position. Budget resources can be increased with flat rates and lower taxes. I think we are one of the most intense and loudest advocates of lump sums and low taxes. And only in this way can we additionally fill the budget and with repressive measures be difficult. I used to listen to a fellow Veber who spoke before me. Even in the coalition, they feel some discomfort, tension over these tax receipts. And perhaps I, too, would like Mr Weber to fight as effectively and intensely against the tax registers as he fought at some other age. Because this is where we can go if we talk in quotes, about stealing citizens, I speak in quotes, because many, all entrepreneurs will be forced to buy this tax box, to buy it. In a way, when you look at the entire cost at the state level, it's going to be a big number. And here I would definitely expect greater resistance within the coalition, more aggression, more struggle for the citizens. And now I'm gonna leave the coalition so I don't trigger too many replicas. I would focus on an alternative to what is a counter-proposal, what might be better than the proposed tax registers. I mentioned the flats. I think that there are many areas where there is a flat rate, especially for those that are most at risk of tax evasion or the most risky, that as many transactions as possible take place through official channels; therefore, transactions are virtually silenced. If I expose cases that have always been talked about so much, they're innkeepers. Some of the innkeepers accused them of wiping accounts, doing this and that, in short, of doing all sorts of things. Why? Since their assessment of the tax burden was too high and they wanted to survive, they had to, in various innovative ways, speak again in parables, find a way to survive this difficult tax burden. But I think, even if we had introduced flatbeds for the guests, we would have made the matter simple and simple; the inn would have known at the beginning of the year how much its tax burden was. He wouldn't have to wipe anything, do anything over the bills. Now that there is a tax box, it does not mean that all this tax will be collected by the State, as it will still be possible not to issue an account for certain coffees or other services; perhaps even more. If they've erased accounts before, maybe they won't give them up after the new one. In the end, it will be seized for the same country, perhaps even worse; by increasing the cost for entrepreneurs. I think the case would be much better and simple if we had regulations according to the square of the place and according to the location. There are only two things in which the country determines your tax; and the matter would be simple — how many guests you can accept and where you have a place. Depending on that, at the beginning of the year, you know how much you're going to pay; and you just do it. The State has a predictable source and the entrepreneur also has a predictable tax burden. One of the options to increase the budget inflows has certainly been flattened. At the end of our previous mandate, we were able to bring together, in cooperation with the People's Party, a flat-rate law with the help of other political parties. There were two laws that related to this, which provided for flat-rate taxation for revenues of up to EUR 100,000. The Secretary of State mentioned that there was no response like we all wanted. I see the reason that raising the threshold for the flat was not followed also by raising the threshold for entry into the VAT system. I think the Ministry of Finance has been explaining for a very long time how impossible it is to raise this threshold. Journalists of the Finance Journal have asked about these matters and they have been told by the European Commission that if Britain and some other countries have this, they see no problem why Slovenia would not have this if the Government had asked for it. On low taxes more in the future, we have already come up with a package where we specifically presented how we could lower taxes on citizens without further burdening the economy. In this too, I see an alternative for tax receipts. I'm going to end with this, now it's time for fire fun, and someone's wondering how these tax receipts are going to work, how they're going to work, how they're going to practice in the case of fireflies. This is an unimaginable story for me, and it will be very interesting.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u177	Thank you very much. The replica has Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u178	Thank you for your word. I would only explain to Mr Tonin that the SD, thanks to me, was exempt from the signing of the coalition amendments in coalition coordination. If you notice, the committee did not receive amendments to the coalition, but two coalition parties; we submitted ours. In fact, I tried to influence this law to change. And to a large extent, I have not been favored by this law myself, but some changes have nevertheless come into this law, which is the fruit of the effort. However, I still haven't changed my relationship to the transfer of property, and there is still this danger, which you also mentioned, of stealing the century. That is why I am still opposed to this procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u180	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Among other things, we wrote in the coalition contract: "Payable discipline and the fight against the grey economy. There will be a need to strengthen the supervision of employers' contributions and taxes and to introduce tax rebates to curb the grey economy." Of course, it would be illusory to expect that only the tax collectors would fully and completely encroach on the grey economy. We know that this is not the case; however, we believe that tax remittances as a complementary measure in the set of all others can help to reduce the gray economy. The government, as it was said, has entered into its coalition programme, and has also operationally done so. The Action Plan was presented in January 2015 and a discussion followed, where the deadline for public debate was extended precisely for the reason that such and different opinions were taken into account by all stakeholders who would participate in the implementation of the law itself. I am convinced that, as far as possible, the Ministry has also listened to these stakeholders in the context of the single concept of so-called tax warehouses. In Desus, we believe that the proposal follows the objectives of establishing an enabling tax environment, which will also allow for a fair redistribution of the tax burden. We also assess in our parliamentary group that it is imperative to implement the proposed legal solutions in the text that we have drafted on the working body after the amendment has been adopted. We are aware that the penalties originally imposed were a little too high and disproportionate in relation to the offence, so we corrected them slightly with the amendments. Of course, it's also 40 euros high, if you ask me, it's too high a sentence. I believe that when inspectors walk in the field, it will not be as my colleague said before, it will not be in the interest of a smart inspector – and I believe in a healthy farm of the minds of those who will do so – that they will not have the main occupation, the main point that they will strike in the pocket if I can express myself so plasticly and directly, the one who may not have taken the bill and kept it in his pocket until the exit from the business space. But that the inspectors would follow more of an educational movement, just like the police did when they stopped you. I think it is mainly educational and that the effects can then be much better. Not to repeat, colleague Weber has helped, even in Desus we have somehow been co-deserving that some exceptions have been brought to the law itself, it is the issue of mass accounts, when it comes to the monthly costs of heating, electricity, water, other utilities and so on. We in Desus believe that the entire text, including the adopted amendments we have drafted in the coalition, will reflect the light of the world in such a form, i.e. this regulation, which will allow the redistribution of the tax burden, in order to complement the fight against the grey economy. It seems essential to us, but I will not repeat any reason here for the Secretary of State, but we will not contribute to the additional administrative burden on the individual entities who will issue these accounts and that, as it is said, the objective will be achieved. Allow me another reflection, but I agree with that debater, and I have yet to remember who declared that we had done this in the past or a serious mistake had been made in the past, that the Social Accounting Service had somehow been eliminated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u181	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President; colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! It is with pleasure that I listen to coalition partners who describe what they have done for this marriage to improve. I suggest you just don't accept it or forget it. Since this law and the tax office do not benefit anyone; except perhaps someone on the tax administration to obtain all accounts from all stores; from all taxis and so on it will be collected into the tax administration. I don't know what they're gonna do there, whether the system breaks or not, that's another question. This information will be of no use to anyone. Next, the grey economy will not be any less so, because everyone knows how the tax is taxed. You do not joke about the cash register — tax, recent, virtual, non-virtual, whatever — and the matter is resolved here. As a result, nothing will be much more tax and this will not reduce the grey economy or shift the tax burden and so on, as some say. None of this will happen, there will be a lot of bad will, there will be a lot of additional administration, a lot of extra costs, but some will. The developers and manufacturers of this equipment will earn it. As I know, they also visited the largest coalition party and presented appropriate solutions; they were probably already on the tax administration. And they're going to make money, and everything else is actually going to be a complete loser. And another thing, from this law, I will not follow the articles, is shown by the punishment of something else that this coalition wants and what all these coalition parties want – to give people the fear of bone. To intimidate, with these high penalties, people in this country want to be intimidated. It's the only motive, in my opinion, for this marriage. And become a repressive state and also a repressive coalition in this respect, because for another reason I do not really see the adoption of this law. But when you put fear in people's bones, people are scared because they're going to pay the fines, the inspector will be able to determine for himself what punishment he'll give, and he'll see for himself what "directly after leaving the office, someone has to have an account". I quote "directly after leaving business..." is the time component "directly after departure". There's no other reason for this coalition than to put fear in people's bones. This is how I see this law, without any effect, except for the effect on a few lobbyists and programmers; all will be harm itself. You have written in a coalition contract, you will accept it, and you will bear all the negative consequences. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u183	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marko Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u184	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I already told the parental committee that this marriage reminds me very much of the real estate tax. And the architects and engineers are probably the same. Dear coalition, this law will not erase the grey economy, I hope that you will even increase it, because lower taxes, flat-rate taxation and flat-rate value added tax are required to curb the grey economy. In all countries where certain tax burdens were imposed, the taxpayers were also offered some relief. This was also done in Croatia when they reduced VAT from 25% to 12% and introduced tax rebates. Austria is making a thorough tax reform where they will introduce virtual tax registers as we know them now, but will lower the income scale. No; only in Slovenia, already under the government of Alenka Bratušek and now under the government of Mira Cerar – tax burden and debt. This is the red thread of your mandate. Your Honor, I'm sure you won't get what you wanted with the tax box. The Secretary of State also did not know on the Finance Committee what the final costs would be for the users of these tax registers; whether it would be zero to 300, or if it would be a thousand to 500 euros. And when you say there can't be exceptions, the biggest nonsension is that you're going to burden the insurance companies. I told you, I withdraw the amendment – insurance companies, name one job black in insurance or one tax evasion. They have a regulator. Dear Members and Members of Desus, I expect support in this amendment, because only the Insurance Company Triglav will put an additional burden on your coalition with three million euros, needlessly; but this will not be known in the balance sheets of Triglav, but rather with the increase in the premium. Tax registers represent a higher price for products and services. And the spoils are low. Indeed, here we see the objectives of this government – new tax burdens and also the introduction of fear of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and in any way of filling the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u185	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u186	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! This law is just proof of what happens when bureaucrats come to power and then spice up their bureaucratic experiences with a little socialism. The bureaucracy will be that the introduction of these registers means only additional people, additional employment in the public administration at the expense of taxpayers, at the expense of entrepreneurs, to control all this; socialism is in the excessive sanctions provided for at certain points. That's what the red thread of your policy is all the time. Today you are selling something that I fear that even most of those who debate do not understand – you are talking about pursuing a gray economy. The grey economy because of this law will be no less because it does not touch it at all. Today, those who don't have bills will also be paid in cash and in cash after the introduction of the tax box. This will have no effect, but it will burden — and this will be — those who provide services or do certain products and sell them directly. But it will burden them twice; for the first time because of the cost of introducing the tax registers and everything related to it. The programmers have already been mentioned, for example, you must be losing hands right now. And second, which is the problem, because there's going to be a huge waste of time in this. Time is money, time is money, that's obviously not what this government is aware of in Slovenia. We know from the experience of neighbouring countries that the introduction of tax boxes means a certain time burden for all; at the end of the day, even for users if there is a delay or a delay in the issuance of invoices. It also costs something in the final stage. Above all, we need to know what the final effect of this story will be. The final effect of this story is that you are introducing one form of covert tax that will benefit those who are selling the money, which will benefit the bureaucrats that will carry out the control, and from which some programmers will benefit. You're the only one who'll benefit from it, and everyone else is gonna have a lot of damage. Above all, it will harm Slovenia, ladies and gentlemen, because what will be the effect of this. The effect of this will be to overrun the costs of ordinary people in the final stage, the buyer, the user, the customer of the service; on the other hand, those entrepreneurs who will see this as an additional burden, time and financial, will simply move their activity abroad. What is already going on is just going to speed up this most catastrophic and negative process, which I fear you are not aware of in this Ljubljana. In Gorenjska, I always stress, I do not know an entrepreneur who does not already have an account abroad and is preparing to move abroad. Unfortunately, I know many who have already moved part of the company or the whole company abroad. This is the worst possible damage for this country because it is leaving the most productive part of this company. People who give bread to others who give them jobs, who pay taxes, are leaving. Ladies and gentlemen, this should worry you that they will now be paid somewhere else, because it is the fundamental task of this country to make a framework within which entrepreneurs will be able to enforce their ideas will be competitive. And you're killing them. What's the biggest burden for entrepreneurs in statistics? In addition to the fact that there is a financial non-discipline here, that there is no adequate legal certainty, this is an endless bureaucratic process, a complication that takes time and energy from them. And here you are doing additional damage; they will go even more abroad and Slovenia will be even poorer. And that's why this marriage is only for one thing, for what we say [[sign for the end of the debate]] for the trash.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr. Marko Ferruga has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u188	Thank you for your word. The debate is as usual – it burns. I have to say, it is true, we are ugly scoundrels; indeed, we will not save the grey economy; indeed, we will not reduce tax evasion; indeed, when you introduce something new, you always cause some discomfort, some rebellion. This is what we are witnessing today and every day when we are talking about a new law or any new change in this House. Today we listened to a sea of things, pro et contra about all this together. And I would like to say my vision of this tax box project; or we could call it a process. I see it as a step, a mosaic in a common image of improving tax culture, raising this culture to a higher level and realizing that paying taxes is not a bad thing; it actually benefits the country and the individual. Why am I saying this? We all think of Scandinavia as something we want to join. But look at him, fracture, there's high taxes and you won't believe it, a large majority of them pay. Why is he paying for them? Because he wants to have a good education, good health, good social and good pensions. With us, we always turn to other things so that we do not see the meaning of all these matters. As has been said many times here, the tax box is only one step in this segment to try to reach these people, to capture these people who operate in cash. Here is actually this matter of ours set up as one of the elements with which we're going to do it. However, the continuation will be a whole series of measures and a series of measures, perhaps also of sub-laws or some other law along with a red thread, how this avoidance of taxes will somehow end. And if I could finish my last thought, I'd say so. Virtual cash registers were some kind of intermediate step. But we want to take this tax box one step further, to fully address the whole segment and the spectrum of tax legislation. I think we are on the right track; and clearly we will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Jani Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u190	Thank you very much, Chairman. It's interesting to hear this discussion. I am sure that if tax receipts were introduced when they were introduced virtually because such a mood was very interesting, we would probably have had a different conversation in Parliament. Because then I remember that there were so many for this or most of them — let us do what the Croats did. At that time, it was the right time to introduce this. I have to say that I was one of those who advocated that the tax registers should have been introduced at the time; however, the then minister and some at the ministry convinced me that we should try first with the virtual cash registers, because we will then see how much this is worth and how much it is not; or whether it will be necessary at all, blah, blah, blah. Well, now we're where we are. I'm sure once you say A, then you have to say B, which means I'm no less into this tax box today than I used to be. But today, unlike then, I wonder if it is possible to be too late; or what is the whole point if we look at the whole globe. However, in the final stage, the government has decided, has scissors and linen in its hands, has come with its coalition majority, and it is right to carry out what it has set out. But there are some other questions that are then forever open. One of the specific questions is for sure, for example, colleague Tonin I heard when he said, tell me how you're going to pull this off on fireflies. [[…]] So it was asked if you remember when the mandatory electronic blocking of accounts or the issuing of invoices was introduced in a market where it was sometimes not. That was the whole hall about how the defense would issue a salad bill, how the defense would issue an egg bill, I don't know what else. Go to the market today, no problem getting a bill. Even once it's no longer a problem, there's electricity everywhere. There was no electricity out there before. Everybody's got those cash registers now, everybody's typing really good, and there's no problem at all. But it was the whole hall back then. Just remember, have a little historical memory. And it's the same hall with these tax receipts. But there is something that is within this question, we have put some amendments, some are repeating themselves. One of the amendments, I think almost every party has submitted it, is to delete Article 17 by not punishing the consumer. Personally, I must say that I will always, as a liberal, be based on the fact that the consumer will not be punished if he wants to buy something. This seems to me first of all to be the responsibility of him who sells, that he may take care, because he therefore has a job, and has a purpose; this is the profit that he earns; and let him pay taxes. I have always claimed that the emperor, who cannot collect taxes, does not deserve them; which means that they must be properly collected. Whether we can pick them up or not, that's another dimension. Here I hear a fellow Shirtzl who says we're becoming a state I don't know what we're going to do now and then we're going to do a comparison with other countries. See, no country is comparable to another; first, due to culture; secondly, due to customs; thirdly, due to the situation and, fourthly, due to needs. And so make these comparisons – yes, on some principled level; but we each have our own specifications. And the specifics here are, I'm sure, and I'll always be against the fact that the consumer is not the one to have the account with. Why is that? Why, if the account is always issued in a duplicate? The one who sells must have an account; not the one who buys. However, if the buyer does not want to have an account for his own record and evidence of the enforcement of the guarantee, that is his problem. He consciously decided not to let us punish him now because he doesn't want to have an account, because then he won't be able to enforce what he doesn't know. We all know what this is all about, though. I just don't fit in with this kind of policy. I will never personally support her. The other thing is when we go to criminal policy. There's always a question that I'm very simple to ask him; okay, the kid's going to buy an item and he's going to be an inspector outside. Is he going to punish this child? Or who will he punish? It's a minor. I don't know what he's gonna do. There's a reason for the inspector to issue a reminder. Is that right? He can give it to me. But hand to heart, when did the inspector give a reminder? Only when he's struck. I just don't believe in this reminder in principle phase because the state has never had this educational policy before, except when the cameras go on, the police give some kind of warning. I've never personally received any warning from anyone or a reminder, I always get the punishment. By default, I've never experienced it before, so I just don't believe in reminders. And what matters in this matter is that the purpose here is to exercise double control. I'm going to say that instead of inspectors, the consumer does this, so I just can't support it. And we also make that very clear with the amendment. The second amendment that we are proposing – I think something similar has been tabled by the SDS – speaks of Article 3, where a new fourth point is added in the second paragraph. And it is said that except for the provision of services that would not be subject to the tax box; the SDS gave the insurance company, we added "bank and savings". It is business or activities with a highly regulated activity where it is more or less clear that it is practically non-cash business, except in the first payment when it comes to the first deposit, which is cash. Secondly, this activity is so severely regulated in the savings, insurance and banks that there is no need to introduce extra cash registers there now, because I really do not imagine an insurance agent who will now carry a cashier or an electronic device to sign contracts. For this reason, I simply believe that it is appropriate to let them go. Of course, taxes are governed by the principle that most people like to repeat, and especially the dacars — there must be no exception to taxes. And when there's no exception, then it's all the same. However, in such a case, I think it is not an exception, but it is the logic that some have been talking about today, and this is an excessive accumulation of data that will already be so enormously large. This is about the way some people would know about it — what good it is for you to eavesdrop on all the Slovenes, but if you don’t have people to examine it. And in this logic, I also see this sense that I think this unnecessary accumulation of documentation is unnecessary where it is a highly regulated activity. This moment is just an administrative increase. Here, so much for me; but if I have to, I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Here you go, Secretary of State Mag. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Some cases relating to punishment; a reminder is an official option provided for by the Offences Act. Anyone who makes a fine or conducts an offence, including an inspector on the ground, is obliged to comply with the Law on Offences. In the case of minors, these issues are also directly regulated by the Law on Offences and determine who and how they are responsible in this regard; or in which cases an older minor may be even responsible for the offence in which the parents are. I have already mentioned that we have spoken with the Chamber of Commerce and Industry about the individual modalities of the bill. Although we did not come together to ask the basic question: Tax checkers, yes or no?; we took quite a few of their warnings into account. And one of their warnings was that there are buyers who ask them to do a service or deliver goods without an account. Taking these warnings into account also seems important to me to keep Articles 12 and 17 in the proposal. With regard to the provision of insurance, banks and savings services, I should say the following; the obligation to tax confirmation of accounts exists in cases of supply of goods and services paid in cash. And the example of insurance agents, insurance agents are generally not employed in insurance companies, but are independent entrepreneurs who, by contract, work for an insurance company. Such an amendment as it is does not concern these persons. Insurance agents, like everyone else who accepts cash for the services provided, are obliged to confirm the account. How will they confirm it? In exactly the same way as a healer or a vegetable seller on the market. Moreover, as a mezzanine, defender or defender, the person who sells only his agricultural crops on the market is not obliged to issue an invoice under the Added Value Tax Act and does not even come under the obligation of this law. With regard to the amendment relating to insurance services, banks and savings services, once again, it is a matter of activities, if we are really talking about insurance companies, banks and savings banks that do not have or are not directly paid in cash. But when we talk about intermediaries and agents, they work with cash and there is no valid reason why they would be treated differently from other businesses or entrepreneurs that carry out a cash activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u193	Thank you very much. We are still with Article 2 and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. I conclude the debate and move on to Article 3 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek, the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u194	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! We would like to introduce an exception with our amendment in Article 3, which is that I will read. This is the supply of goods and services carried out by the debtor who is established or registered in the Republic of Slovenia and for which the total value of the taxable income of the taxable person in the current calendar year or in the previous calendar year does not exceed EUR 7 000 500. What's this all about? It is an undertaking where the total amount of annual taxable revenue from supplies of goods or services does not exceed that amount, i.e. EUR 7 000 500. These are, for example, shoemakers, seams and other debtors carrying out minor repairs and the like. Such debtors include farmers who have voluntarily entered the bookkeeping system and are obliged to use the tax box following the current proposal, even though they sell smaller quantities of agricultural products. Such debtors include those farmers who carry out additional activities on the farm and have less income from this activity. The acquisition and maintenance of electronic cashiers means so much administrative and financial burden for these smaller debtors that most will decide to shut down or terminate activities and to switch to either a grey economy or a social service burden, which is certainly not the aim of the legislator. These debtors will, of course, continue to be obliged to issue accounts in the manner prescribed by the current legislation, i.e. by means of a tied account book, allowing appropriate supervision of the proper functioning of such smaller entities. I suggest you support this amendment of New Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to Section 4. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to Section 9. I am putting to the debate the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 9. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 10 and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 11 and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to Article 12. I am putting to the debate the article and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 15 and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We turn to Article 17 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 18 and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We turn to Article 19 and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group and the amendment of the parliamentary groups of the Modern Centre Party, the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia and the Social Democrats. Who wants to discuss article 19 and the amendment of the four parties? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 23 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups of the Modern Centre Party, the Democratic Party of Pensioners and the Social Democrats. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. Then I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 3rd item of the agenda. I'm putting an end to the 14th item of the agenda. We're moving to 3. On the day-to-day basis, this is on the proposal for a law amending the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2014 and 2015, following an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary Mag. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u196	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Your Honor! In January this year, the government signed an agreement with the municipalities on the average for 2015 to finance the implementation of the statutory tasks at the level of the municipalities. It was agreed that the average for the first half of the year should be set at EUR 525 per capita and for the second half of the year at EUR 500; however, on condition that it should be up to 30. 6. Systemic and implementing measures reduce community labour costs by €22.8 million. At the same time, there is also a commitment by the Government if the estimated savings are not reached to provide the Government with funds for the average in a different way. The agreement means the continuation of the activities that we started in December 2014, when, on the basis of agreement with the municipalities, a proposal for laws on measures to balance the public finances of the municipalities was drawn up. As part of the six-year intensive talks, we have managed to ensure that measures are implemented on the government side, which we estimate will reduce the cost of community work by a good EUR 9 million. Since the Government has found that agreed and feasible measures will not have the desired financial impact this year, we have proposed to the municipalities an agreement to amend the agreement and submitted to the National Assembly a proposal to amend the average for the second half of this year; by increasing the average, it compensates for the under-cost reduction in the work of the municipalities. Taking into account the estimated savings, the government proposed raising the average to EUR 514.22 per capita. The government estimates that these measures have led to some rationalisation of the work, and the fact is that these rationalisations can only be demonstrated in implementation if the municipalities use the mechanisms provided for them by agreed measures. That is why the Government cannot agree with the proposals that the average should be maintained at the same level as in the first half of this year. However, as we continued our discussions with the congregations, we listened to some concern about the level of the estimated savings. Therefore, according to budgetary options, we also agree with a certain increase in the average, as agreed at the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. The agreement with the municipal representative associations on possible rationalisation and cost reduction is, of course, not concluded. Only one phase of these talks and arrangements has been concluded. The results of the work so far together form new measures and possibilities for rationalisation, and we also increase the awareness that it is not possible to resolve individual issues only in a way that certain costs can be passed from one level to another; but they must be reduced for all. It takes into account the fact that the proposal for a law is very important for the smooth financing of municipalities in the second half of this year, we propose to the National Assembly that the draft law be supported in the second and third readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u197	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mrs Marushi Škopac.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u198	Thank you for your word, chairman. In the context of the 33rd urgent meeting, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered a proposal for a law amending the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015 submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. The opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Council of State was forwarded to the Committee. On the basis of the Law on Local Self-Government and Business Provisions, the proposal was also sent to the Slovene municipalities which sent their written opinions; in addition to the three common positions of the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia and the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia. At the same time, qualified candidates submitted a number of amendments to the proposal by the beginning of the meeting, namely the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek, the SDS Group of Ambassadors, the NSI Group and the three coalition parliamentary groups – the Modern Centre Party, Desus and the SD Group of Ambassadors, all of them by 1st and 2nd articles of the legislative proposal. In the course of the presentation of the opinion, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out that the comments in question to Articles 2 and 3 in conjunction with the said constitutional provision with the amendments had not been duly corrected. The representative of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia pointed out in the presentation of the unanimously adopted opinion that this is a real problem of municipalities which dictates the implementation of the law without prejudice to the other financial situation of municipalities. The State Council therefore supports the requirement to maintain the average at the current level, not least due to parallel legal changes under way and related development tasks. In a multi-layered debate focusing on the amount of the average amount, their representatives, on behalf of individual parliamentary groups, presented their positions taken, the reasons for the changes made to the average amount, expressed some concerns and raised certain questions. It follows from the types of opposition discussers that the data on the obligations of the municipalities are different, that there is broad discretion of averages and that there is no uniform system approach. Criticism applies mainly to municipalities that have agreed to the situation. The text under consideration undoubtedly concerns the development of Slovenia and its inhabitants for life today as well as for the future. The opinion was also expressed that the proposed 525 euro average amendments to the opposition parties provide stability to the municipalities by ensuring that implementation itself, if possible for the amount of 519 is also possible in a slightly higher amount under the budgetary reserves. Discussioners from the coalition's kind stressed that this was the last opportunity to discuss before the adoption of the Fiscal Rule Act. It is 212 municipalities, so that in the framework of the agreed measures each can optimise savings options. Aware of the issues identified in the letter from the three representative associations of the municipalities, it is at a given point in time for the current implementation of the budget and in this context represents an amendment of the coalition a compromise proposal that is worth supporting. In the context of the explanations and responses to the concerns expressed, the representative of the applicant stated that taking into account the implementation of individual projects, following an assessment by the ministries concerned, the latter could contribute so much that an average of EUR 519 would be provided with transfers and certain commitments of the budget reserve in the second half of the year. In order to set a higher amount, the latter would, at first glance, imply that the ministries or other programmes and other activities should essentially reduce their consumption by that amount. This would require a rebalancing and the proposed increase of EUR 525, according to the government's assessment, is not acceptable. At the time of its consideration, the Committee adopted both amendments to Articles 1 and 2 of the three coalition groups. The other amendments have not been adopted by the Committee or have become irrelevant due to the previous two amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u199	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u200	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! In Novi Slovenije, when we presented our position on the June novel of the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015, we drew attention to the need to regulate the average of municipalities for the second half of this year. We have already pointed out that the average level should remain at least at the level set for the first half of this year, i.e. EUR 525. Only in this case will the municipalities be able to ensure the performance of all the tasks imposed on them by the applicable legislation. In doing so, let us stress that, when adopting the new Law on the Enforcement of Budgets, the government itself has committed itself to taking measures that will make the municipalities financially burdensome or increase their revenues with a total financial impact of around EUR 22.8 million. The government doesn't keep its promise. It has not prepared these proposals and has not provided an explanation as to what is the reason for this. In its explanation of the novel in question, it argues that some measures have been proposed and taken, possibly referring to the ZUJF for municipalities that have brought net financial effects to municipalities of around EUR 9 million. Such explanations by governments, however, do not hold the municipalities or their representative associations together and point out that the measures taken now have no more significant financial impact. Today's amendment to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015 addresses the question of averages for this year and now raises a certain average for the period July to December this year only for a good 13 euro, i.e. EUR 514. The average of amendments to the coalition was thus increased to EUR 519 on the parent’s working body. Such an increase in the average will not guarantee the municipalities normal operation. In doing so, smaller and rural municipalities with a low population will be significantly more exposed. Despite the government’s promises, the statutory scope of the tasks has not been reduced, which means that the municipalities will have to provide funds for these purposes. As a result, the low average will have an impact on the investment activity of municipalities. The funds earmarked by the municipalities for investment will have to be diverted to provide legal tasks. Investments that may already be under way will stop. No new investments will be made by the municipality. As a result, this will be reflected in the decline in economic activity, which has barely begun in the last year. We also note in particular the fact that this year the financial perspective 2007 to 2013 or, rather, the payments for projects at that time interval is being concluded. As the municipalities of their own funds to cover investments will not be able to provide, European funds will remain unspent. This is a key issue that we are reminding us of. European funds will remain unspent or worse if investments are not completed, the European funds already received will be reimbursed by the municipalities. For this reason, Members of the New Slovenia Group tabled an amendment proposing an increase in the average for municipalities from July to December this year to EUR 525. We are binding our support for this law on the adoption of this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Mag. Alenka Bratušek will translate the position of the Group of Ambassadors of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u202	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Today you will fix or amend the Budget Implementation Act for the fifth time. In ten months, as your coalition and your government last, that means every two months. This gives us a sense that you don't know exactly what to do and how to do it. Laws don't change that fast. We were supposed to change our minds. When you confirmed at the 2015 rebalancing also the average for the municipalities for 2015, our warnings went in the direction that this average should remain the same all year round, and that you should not thus determine the amounts that are important to the municipalities. At that time, I told you that with the amendment to the Budget Implementation Act, where we will increase the average, we will still meet. And today, although we are on July 13th, the average has been changed since July 1st, so this is really a little irresponsible. Even more irresponsible is this bidding of height, from 525 at the beginning of the year, at 500 in the second half of the year, then the government comes with a proposal for 514 and then the coalition calculates that 519 is the right amount. I am not surprised at the indignation of all the associations that call on us not to support this law or to in some way ensure that the average remains €525. I, my fellow Members, on behalf of the Alliance's Group, particularly those of the coalition, appeal that you leave an average of €525 to the municipalities for this year and that the government should immediately, but really immediately begin to deal with the average for 2016 and 2017. 9 million, if they keep in mind that the revenue of the budget shows a more favourable picture than was foreseen in the budget, it will not undermine your public finances, public finances, and this will mean very, very much to the municipalities. We have also tabled an amendment in the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance, which preserves or returns the average for municipalities to EUR 525, by calling on you or, if you wish, on behalf of all Slovene municipalities to vote in favour of the amendments, in fact, have been equally tabled from three parliamentary groups and thus ensure the normal functioning of the municipalities. If our amendment is not confirmed, the votes of the Alliance's Group do not have an amendment to the Budget Implementation Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mrs Maruša Škopac will present the position of the Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u204	Thank you for your word, chairman. The basic objective of the law is to legalise solutions that will enable the performance of those tasks of municipalities financed by appropriate spending in the second half of 2015. Under the current law, the average for 2015 is set at EUR 525 for the first half of the year and EUR 500.83 for the second half of the year. The proposed amendment sets an average of €519 for the second half of 2015, which is 18.17 euros higher than the average set by the applicable Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015. With an increased average, the appropriate consumption of municipalities will increase as a difference between the estimated reduction in expenditure of municipalities and the reduction achieved by systemic changes. The amount of income belonging to the municipalities in 2015 is fixed by the Law on the Financing of the Communities and amounts to 54% of the income. This proportion does not change with amendments to the law. Funds to finance a higher average will have to be provided by increasing the financial imbalance from the state budget. The law also provides in the transitional provision for a higher financial compensation for the month of July 2015: the difference will be paid in the payment of the financial compensation for the month of August. At the same time, the transitional provision also provides that for the month of July 2015 the difference between the revenue referred to in Article 14 of the Law on the Financing of Municipalities shall be indicated to municipalities weekly until the end of 2015. From 2008 to 2014, the revenue of municipalities increased by 17.5% or 329 million euros. During this period, municipal budgets increased by 8 %. At the same time, the state budget fell by 9%, and the revenues of the state budget are thus still lower than those achieved in 2008. It is also reported that the number of employees in municipal administrations increased by 195 % and 4.2 % during this period, while the number of employees in state administration decreased by 2 000 601 and 8 % during the same period. We can safely say that during the recession the country was saving, which we cannot say for the congregations. In April and May 2015, the Ministry of Public Administration and the Ministry of Finance held coordination meetings with the ministries concerning proposals to reduce the costs for the work of municipalities and to remove administrative barriers. The content of the measures is directly linked to the 2015 average level agreement signed by the Government in January 2015 with the representative associations of municipalities under the Law on the Financing of the municipalities. By agreement, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has undertaken to ensure that, by 30 June 2015, by means of implementing and systemic measures to reduce the costs of municipalities in the implementation of certain tasks by law, measures are taken to reduce the costs of municipalities by €22.8 million at annual level or otherwise provide funds. The Ministry of Public Administration notes that austerity measures do not reach the agreed amount, which is why it proposes to increase the average amount from EUR 500.80 to EUR 519 for the second half of this year. We will support the amendment of the law in the modern centre Party Group. At the same time, it should be stressed that we are aware that this novel saves only the financing of municipal budgets this year and that the funding system of municipalities will have to be radically changed in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u206	Thank you for your word, chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, distinguished Secretary of State! At the request of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we also discussed the issue of funding for municipalities in the Committee on Home Affairs and Public Administration. We referred to this meeting on the initiative of municipalities, namely the Community of municipalities of Slovenia, the Association of municipalities of Slovenia and the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia. We would like to point out that the activities relating to the determination of the average do not take place as agreed between municipalities or provided for by the Law on measures to balance the public finances of municipalities and the Law on the implementation of budgets for 2014 and 2015. The Budget Implementation Act reduced the average for 2015 from €536 to €525 for the first six months and €500.83 for the second half of the year, which is why we did not agree in our Group. In addition, funds for co-financing of investments from 2 % to 1% of eligible expenditure have been reduced to municipalities, which is, of course, an additional shock for municipalities. By the end of January, an agreement was signed between the Ministry of Finance and the President of the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia on the average for 2015, but the municipalities agreed to a reduction in the average and co-financing of investments because the government had committed itself to 30. 6. develop systematic and implementing measures to reduce the costs of municipalities, amounting to €22.8 million per year. In view of the inaction of some ministries to approach the actual search for solutions that would reduce costs for municipalities, only the associations received a table containing amendments of measures of some more than €9 million without a methodology for calculating these savings. The proposals submitted are considered by the Association to be non-systematic and, above all, partial is an unrealistic amount of financial impact. It should be noted, however, that the average is not enough in a number of congregations to carry out the statutory tasks and that their functioning and existence would be further compromised by a reduction. There is also a problem that municipalities cannot prepare projects to run for European funding for the new financial perspective due to the lack of co-financing of their own share. At the initiative of the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia, and numerous letters and warnings from Slovenian municipalities with the amendment, the Slovenian Parliament proposed that the average for the second half of the year be maintained at EUR 525, but our amendment to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy was rejected by the coalition. The coalition insisted on its amendment to set an average of EUR 519 for the second half of the year. In all of this it is necessary to add that in the Community of municipalities of Slovenia, the Association of Slovenia and the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia have been warned that they will use all appropriate remedies if the average is not maintained at the level of the first half. It should also be emphasized that the congregations have done a great deal since their establishment to this day. They are an important generator for the development of Slovenia, especially rural development. Every euro they have at their disposal can also be very well invested in the welfare of the development and well-being of their citizens. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, if you accept our amendment, which maintains an average of €525, we will support the law. If the average does not remain at this level, we will vote against the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u208	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues! We have before us a law amending the Law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015. The current law on the implementation of budgets set the average for the period from 1 January to 30 June at EUR 525 and for the period from 1 July to the end of the year at EUR 500.83. The Government therefore concluded an agreement with the associations of municipalities in January with which it undertook to adopt those systemic measures which would reduce the costs of implementation by law of certain tasks of the municipalities. By 30 June, it is intended to ensure a reduction in the costs of municipalities with a total impact of €22.8 million at an annual level or to provide funds for the average in a different way. In June, the government found that, with the proposed and established amendments to the cost reduction rules as agreed, it would not fully achieve its purpose. It is important that not all measures will enter into force or take effect as early as July, and some will not have the same effect on all congregations, as they are in very different situations. For the second half of this year, the new law before us sets an average of €519. This amount represents, in some ways, a compromise and a ceiling that the government can offer up to EUR 514.22 and the proposals of the representative unions of the Association of Municipalities, which required that the average be maintained at EUR 525 in the second half of the year. Thus, the average rises by around €5 compared to the original solution and by about 1.1% compared to the local community's wishes. To accept it, I hope to name it, compromise on the one hand to listen to the demands of the Association of Municipalities and, on the other hand, take into account the savings that have been made possible by amending certain acts, particularly regulations under law. This solution increases the revenue of the municipalities' budgets and increases the expenditure from the country's budget by the same amount. Funds to increase expenditure from the State budget will be provided by reallocation of spending rights through the budget lines of other government budgetary users. There is an urgent need to mention the issue that is emerging here, and this is a reform of local self-government, as we increasingly see that the current model is not sustainable, so in the Desus Group we expect a brief and thorough debate on the modernisation of local self-government. In this place, I would like to draw particular attention to the fact that some municipalities, such as Maribor, are already in a very tight financial situation in areas such as school nutrition, and I am glad that they are also funding services where they are not legally bound. Unfortunately, there are significant differences in the social situation of people in Slovenia at the local level, and as a result there is a need for further solutions to their basic or material situation. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! As has already been said, in the message to Desus, it seems to us that the draft law must be supported by its compromise solution, so in terms of the stable financing of local communities and the balance of public finances, we will support the proposal with all our votes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u210	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! The current law on the implementation of the budget provides for an average of 500,83 euros for the period from 1 July 2015 to 31 December 2015. It is therefore very important that we also make a decision in the National Assembly to try to eliminate such a low amount of the average. This was also laid down when the current law on the implementation of the budget was adopted, even under the condition that the government with the municipalities reached an agreement on where it is possible to save money for the tasks of the municipalities and then the average increases. Given that the agreement was not fully implemented, since it was expected that the savings would be almost €23 million, and in fact savings had been agreed for a total of €9 million, the government had taken this agreement into account and proposed an average of €514.22. In the coalition and also in the committee, we felt that, given that a better budgetary picture is also showing up, the municipalities should also listen and the average should be raised to at least EUR 519. This has also been adopted by the Committee and such a complementary proposal will be supported by the Social Democrats today. We are aware that this is an increase or that 60 million euros, or 18 million euros, should be provided to this end, or more than the government had anticipated. But given that the budget spills are also improving, it is probably manageable. Partly from reserve funds, probably also from government budget consumers. However, if at least according to the government's position we want to provide an average of €525, a budget balance would also be needed. This is certainly a larger change and a longer process, so we believe that it is more appropriate at this time to adopt an increase in the average of EUR 519, taking into account the fact that investments can nevertheless find that the state budget provides the municipalities with an additional EUR 20 million of other current transfers and for investment assets of almost 487 million, of which 93.4 million in total, is around 16% higher than in 2014, and EUR 393.8 million in European funds, which is also 18% higher than in last year. It is important that, in spite of everything, the investment cycle is trying to be pursued, and I am sure that the municipalities can also organise themselves in the implementation of the legislative tasks in a way that, through the negotiations, which will surely be followed, a better agreement can be reached in the future, and this will largely depend on what has been adopted recently in the National Assembly, what the fiscal rule formula will also dictate in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Dr. Franc Trček will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u212	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Secretary of State, respectable council! I am listening to this debate, fortunately I am last in line to present the views of the parliamentary groups, and somehow I cannot get rid of the impression that we are talking here, what Mrs Alenka has indicated in some sort of campaign, as if we are at some auction. I don't know, we buy pictures, graphics, who gives more, who cares more about the municipalities, and so on. This debate is awkward. In this debate, someone did not complete their homework. I've asked the district minister several times to deliver my matrix. A matrix of mandatory tasks of municipalities arising from legislation, what are all the mandatory tasks of the congregation, from which law, from where to finance it and so on. In the end, I received some instructions to visit a website. I'm kind of afraid no one's dealing with this matrix. We have a state budget, which also has a revenue side to which it is forgotten, not only expenditure, we have municipal budgets, we have mandatory tasks for the municipalities. And all of us, each of us living in a congregation, are our micro environments in which we want to live with dignity and quality. We are now talking only about this average, and the proposals that were in play are between €500 and €600. All three associations of congregations say that they cannot provide some basic funds, and I come somehow from this foho myself, when I said, what if we looked like in some other countries, but the averages were not at the level of the balance sheet, but it almost hit a stroke. In the United Left, we cannot support this change of average and will be held back for a variety of reasons. The first reason is not to look systematically at the problem. The second reason is that, in this mini-saving, we have forgotten that we have cut off certain social transfers, especially by subsidising the rent to those who have rented profitable apartments because they were not profitable. I kind of forget about that. It is also somehow forgotten that this balance sheet in reducing the number of employees in the municipality somehow shows that we do not want to think in this Slovenia. The coalition comes and says that there has been more employment in the congregations, less employment in the public administration, but we cannot view it that way. We should go from example to example. The municipalities are also in very different statuses, very different aggregate states. We have municipalities that function better, municipalities that function worse. I have proposed this years ago, and I also propose on behalf of the United Left that it is necessary to take a systemic and, after all, even in a soft way, almost hoping to force municipalities to greater cooperation, some of which are already doing. There are some successful reforms of local self-government, Danish, Austrian in Styria and so on, where associations have also been directed by different averages to set up and then the congregations have gone together. And suddenly it was found, let's say that one small town hall and four villages around it, which had been divided by small political differences, had come together, and the average was higher. [[Incomprehensible]] And look at the fragment, they could have made a britoff together. Why am I telling you this plastic? Because we find hot water all the time. The United Left does not yet have such a strong lobby at local level, but when it does, we will go into these rescues systematically, not in the way of some good people, once by the opposition, on the other hand by the coalition. And this thing has a beard, this thing hasn't been going on since yesterday, this thing has been going on for, like, a decade, and it needs to be systematically tackled, and it needs to be asked, after all, developmental. In the next stage of development, we come up with some infrastructure where municipalities are definitely in small aggregation in space, in particular the whole type of transport, municipal infrastructure, urbanism and so on. We will reach an area on the issue of regional integration, which, of course, we will have to address. We will not support this, we will be held back because we expect a systemic debate, but not every two or three months now we will be kibiting, I don't know, a couple of ten euros down, a couple of ten euros up, and there will always be a congregation that won't cover its municipal deficits. I don't want to go into the internal debt of the congregations. I myself come from a congregation that has been in charge of the EPK internally – I know they cannot interrupt me – and has 18 million internal debt that it took from the municipal, dedicated [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u213	Or maybe it's [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u214	funds. That's what they knew. It was also known on a national level, but no one interrupted it. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u215	Thank you, Dr. Duck. I wanted to show you that you can break up. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the consideration of the articles and amendments that have been published on the e-club. As the amendments of the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, New Slovenia and the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek to Article 1 are substantively linked to the amendments to Article 2. Article, we will discuss them together. I am putting to the debate Articles 1 and 2 and the amendments of the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, New Slovenia and the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek to this article. Who wants to discuss it? Please sign up. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u216	Thank you very much. There's nothing, I have to say, art doesn't know borders, and I just laughed a little. The debate, which is about the amendments themselves and the averages themselves, shows how unfortunate it is to have one minister in charge of the municipalities, but in the end, the Minister of Finance can always show off his teeth and in fact he is not interested in the development of local self-government. Because in the final stage this is not even in the nature of the Ministry of Finance. Why would this ministry deal with content? He's only interested in income, expenditure, and money. Look up, down, but ha, here at the local community, here's nice, here's always to pick up. Especially when comparisons are made, how much work is done in the local community and how much work is done in the country. Respectable rulings, especially those who have never worked on local self-government, are already willing to accept that in local self-government they will never do the same as you do in the country, because they have completely different tasks and work differently from you, as you would say, with people. But the other thing that I find unworthy is that governments are changing, and officials are one and the same, and they really don't mind that changes are happening in the middle, and they forget the historical memory very quickly. I must say that in one presentation today there was an even more interesting presentation, I think that colleague Škopac, when she said what the law stipulated and what the law stipulated, did not say that this bill had been adopted by the coalition. Yeah, hello, it's a joke and a joke on a cup. I could do better than that. First you say, at the beginning of the year, I'm going to change that, and then you say, "Look, honey, the law is like this, you know, no. That's how it's to be taken." Look, it's simple logic and we can't agree to this discussion. In particular, we cannot land because today I also hear that the small, slightly smaller, etc. will suffer the most. Of course, this thing can't hold. Nominally, those who can count will know that they will lose the greatest. And if we remember very quickly, as I said earlier, that officials do not want to remember, in 2006 the Law on Community Financing put a diametrically on the head of funding. At that time all the congregations in the country applauded, and they were glad that they had finally received a little more money by actually losing the three congregations. And what was very clear that year: do not rejoice, for the days and years are coming when all the congregations will begin to lose out. At that time, there was essentially a very clear green signal that the country could break through the local community. Another thing that seems very important to me, already in 2011 in the Pahor government, the law or calculation changed, the formula for calculation for financing the Capital Law. No one was paying attention at the time, and three years later we experience this formula when the funds are practically halved. And the third thing is, I think that today my colleague Duck talked about that he wanted to have tasks in local self-government, by the way, they're available on the website, you get them, you just have to read them, but I'm really afraid that even when the ministry evaluates through these tasks, it really doesn't know how to evaluate these tasks. I'll be most unhappy when I repeat the same case. In the local community, it is known that kindergartens are from the founder, that is, from the local community. He has to build them, he has to run the program, he has to pay his wages, he has to do everything. But a collective wage agreement is negotiated between the state, the minister and industry workers. In the end, the mayor just looks at what they've made up and says, "Oh yeah, I have to pay for it now." And the thing is done. Where's autonomy now? I've been telling you all these times, I'd still take primary schools to the local community, because it sucks anyway. Pays are already paid by the Ministry, the investment must now be made by the local community, yes, and then let everything be taken care of until the end and the matter is resolved. You will do a favor and a joy in truth to the local community, and these are the things the partners have asked in the conversation to relieve certain tasks. Not kindergartens, schools, other assignments. And that's not what happened. Looks like we're bartering today. That's why I mentioned my colleague Škopac on purpose at the outset when she said, "Well, and we've achieved an increase in funds." I can't believe it. First the government said 500, the coalition said no, 19. And now all of a sudden we're talking about increased funds. Hello? Who's crazy here now? The funds are down, and whatever you're about to explain. And on the other hand, what was promised in the agreement did not happen. This is that the tasks will be reduced and the money saved can be brought in. I come from the Municipality of Ljubljana. The municipality of Ljubljana will lose the most again. Either way, she is still the most punished, but the National Assembly has a seat — where? In the Municipality of Ljubljana. Members and Members of Parliament are very happy and happy to see how nice it would be if Ljubljana were clean, beautiful, comfortable, beautiful, transportation and I don't know what else we'd like to have here. Yes, this way of funding, and with that logic, we will never achieve anything. I say, not that this is the beginning of the end, but it's a reflection of the final painting, I'll say, the assassination of the local government. Completely. Excuse me, those who do not understand that the autonomy of local self-government is also considered to have money and can decide for themselves and plan it at the beginning of the year, then of course it is more than clear what follows. Will the budgets begin to change? Rebalans will have to take place practically in all local communities because they will have to change the number. You will not be able to excuse yourself especially if they knew this earlier because it was foretold. But on the one hand, they calculated that they would have an increase because you predicted that the task would be reduced. Who will be responsible for all this rebalancing and criticism that the mayors can't plan? Excuse me, this is unworthy, which is most important, is essentially forcing and interfering with local self-government directly. And I'm sorry, this is where we closed the discussion. We're asking the mayors to do something and we're telling them what to do. It's not independence. The local self-government was not established to cut and command and dictate, but merely to create conditions. Pika. And that's where it ends. Here some of you have lost the compass, of course first the government. What will this look like next? I'm predicting worse things! You will amend the Law on the Financing of the Communities. You know what happens then? Only then, my dears, will you have serious problems in the government? Dear colleagues and colleagues in the coalition! You're back in. And what's more important: where is this difference between the legislative and executive powers that I heard about at the beginning of the mandate? The legislative authority should make it very clear: "Now is enough. First create what you promised to do, then we can support on the other side what you predicted you would do." If you don't do that, then explain to your mayors or candidates who will someday want to run for mayors under your brand because they won't, because they'll get the biggest enemies, that's, you become mayor and you get a slap on the face of the country and minus any action. That's just not gonna work. All your exercise about how you increased, see, at least save us these pains and don't explain to us how you enabled something to the local community because you didn't. Explain that to your own. This is unworthy because it looks like we're idiots, and we don't understand what you're explaining to us.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u218	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. A nice greeting from the secretary of state. I agree with my predecessor Janie in most things. He's very visual about certain things. I'll try it myself. The government reduced the average from €536 to €525, with another idea of how to reduce the costs of municipalities by €22.8 million by the end of June. And then what happened? Months passed, and the ministries were supposed to put measures on the government there by April, and there was almost nothing there in May. The measures, which were then given to congregations or congregation associations, were practically ridiculous. There were no systemic measures, no practical savings, but some improvements to certain regulations. What was needed then were some other marriages [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u219	Peace in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u220	the main effects of this are not. [[…]] It is interesting how the vehement government said that it would take six months to take systemic measures and that the congregations would have so much and so much less expenditure. What happened then does not indicate that the government or coalition or the largest party does not know much about local self - government. Absolutely not. On the other hand, all municipalities will now, as Jani said before, have to accept budget rebalancies because there will be so much less revenue because they adopted the budget at the end of last year on the basis of EUR 536 of average. In addition, the government has further reduced investment funds under Article 23 of the Community Financing Act from 2% to 1%. Here, however, small municipalities are most hit because these investment funds are calculated on the basis of an index of developmental hazard that brings to smaller or poorer municipalities more than to larger or rich municipalities. Here comes the re-centralisation, to those poor taken who do not have all the municipal infrastructure built, and to those taken more and more. Secondly, many municipalities that are now building municipal infrastructure also through European means must ensure their own share, which is now not to be achieved in most of these municipalities. How are they gonna finish the projects? There are many congregations that are no longer liquid, which do not pay the bills because they do not have where to take it from. On the other hand, expenditure on preschool education is increasing, as the involvement of children in kindergartens is increasing. The Financing Act provided for more than 50% of preschool children to be enrolled in kindergartens, and in most municipalities it is already more than 75% and more than 80%. This is a huge expense for congregations. Just like he told Jana earlier. Only the norms we have are the richest in Europe. The municipalities only have to pay for these expenses, they have to build kindergartens for which they do not have anywhere in the Law on the Financing of the Communities of the Funds Provided and cover all costs. The same is true in the social sector, where costs are increasing. And this should be the concern of the client Desus or the pensioner. And at the end of that 22.8 million. I would like to know when and how the Law on the Financing of the Communities will be amended. I don't think it's for the best. Only worse. And you will see in the next elections – it is already happening that in certain municipalities they do not even get a candidate to run for municipal council. You won't get them for mayors either. There were a lot of mayors in the local elections who didn't have any candidates at all. At the next election, you'll be able to look for them not on the labor market, but on the VDC. Do you know what VDC is? Because no one will want to take the minus in the municipalities and provide 180 tasks that municipalities have. There are 180 tasks in the catalogue on the jurisdiction of municipalities. But no one can evaluate what tasks are. However, inspectors walk through the municipalities and threaten to punish the mayors if they do not change the law at a certain time. As has already been said, we do not know what local self-government is. The European Charter on Local Self-Government states that democracy is based on local self-government and is autonomous. Why can a government or a national assembly not simply annul a congregation’s decree? She can't because she's autonomous. However, it can take the money and enable it to carry out certain tasks and then the municipality with the mayor in charge is responsible for why certain tasks are not performed. It'll stop once. Then we find out how we do not have foreign investors, how we do not have the conditions to develop the economy. Who is preparing the conditions for the development of the economy? Or the state? The state is building municipal infrastructure? No, the congregations. 30% of Slovenian people do not have healthy drinking water. Aren't we ashamed of Europe? We've got so much water, we're bragging. We drive waste, we go cream tourism, from one end of the country to the other end, because we don't have an orderly. We do not follow the promises we made to Europe. Disposal and treatment of wastewater. This year is the last year for many areas in Slovenia, where we should have solved this already. European penalties will be followed, as will neighbouring Italy. Who's gonna pay? The government? The country from the budget? No, no, no. As in Italy: the country to the provinces, we do not yet have them, the province to the municipalities, and the municipalities to the offices. 30 euros is supposed to be a month's imprisonment for the household. Maybe they'll be merciful to us, maybe a little less. Unresponsible. But we are talking now or we have received a draft regulation on the decommissioning and cleaning of waste water that has not yet been adopted. It will probably be adopted in 2016, when it will already pass for most of Slovenia's rural areas, especially for those who will not have it regulated. There is no real seriousness in this area. If we want to at least partially ease this, the average should remain EUR 525 per capita, what is our amendment. And not just ours, but two other clients. What was said to be 500.83 euros – I wonder who calculated exactly 500.83 euros? Who's so smart in this country? And then it was said, because we increased from 500 to 519, as the predecessor had already said. It's the same thing as saying, " Borrow me 100 euros." And another said, "I don't, I only have 50." "Okay, you'll owe 50 more." You've been making fools out of all of us, especially those municipalities in Slovenia that have empty accounts that haven't been able to pay bills for half a year because of such things that they are only charged with various laws and regulations, but don't get the money they need after the constitution. You will have to realize that we are not as rich in the field of social education and in the field of preschool education as we once did and that it will rest somewhere. Not now to prevent municipalities from performing basic tasks, such as public economic services — water, waste, waste water, and municipal roads. Not to mention what is happening on municipal roads, the repeal of decisions on the categorisation of municipal roads. This too is a disgrace, only in the Butalas can we see it, and the solution is nowhere. I tell you that you will have to take the congregations and assignments more seriously if you do not want, as has already been said today, only to frighten people and subject them to various regulations and prevent them from carrying out their duties. Sometimes they punished or the state sued the president of local communities for various quarrying, which was a great shame. And now you're on the same path. Believe me, one day this will end, and you'll be wondering. They didn't take out trash in Italy. What happens if we don't have any more garbage? 30 million municipalities subsidise the prices of municipal services. 30 million now. How many years have the prices of utilities been frozen? Why? For inflation? If we could increase prices and also provide some investment money, that was not possible. And then some of them went up by 100 percent of the price, and people went through it peacefully. But that's not gonna work anymore. Who will be responsible if the prices of water supply are so high that people will not be able to afford a healthy drinking water connection? Who will be responsible? The parishioners, of course, are municipal saints, only the state. It's clear, she has to stay for the center, but for the rest, it doesn't matter. And how can the congregations be impoverished? So you take their money. People expect, the state doesn't give money, you don't pay bills for a while because you're counting on you to get the money, but one day it ends. Then the bank comes in and shuts down the computers for the community workers — and how can they continue to work? Sometimes it would be appropriate to put a computer on a government official's shoe. I don't think that's gonna work without it. I propose that these amendments of the three opposition parties be confirmed here and that the average remains until the end of the year, because otherwise, believe me, at the end of the fall, there will be serious problems. Not to us opposition parties, to you, to the government and to coalition parties. And then someone's gonna have to put down the bills. If not by the end of this year, at the beginning of next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u222	Thank you, Vice President for your word. So let's start with one. 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the In 2014, the average was €536 and then at the end of February, so during the current year, the government comes up with a brilliant idea called the ZUJF municipalities. How to relieve the functioning of the congregations will reduce the average. But this is where the government had to make some uniqueness, the first half of 525, and the second half of the year 500.83 euros. When I said at the meeting of my mother’s work body that this law, this ZUJF municipality, was a substantive victory and a financial bluff, some were disgusted. And today we have proof that we know what happened back then. The legislative and legal service gave almost all the articles an opinion and then we corrected the amendments. We're financially seeing, from those fabulous 23 million we've now come to 9 million. But these 9 million do not follow the ZUJF, but even the government itself writes that this table is a set of proposals for legal, sub-legislative changes, recommendations or other measures. Probably brought the ZUJF municipalities there, I'll say it on my thumb as a government, up to 5 million. But on the other hand, there was almost no government action. And then, at the end of June, we come to the SDS Group's proposal for an urgent mid-term meeting, we propose conclusions, but the coalition confirms its conclusion, which reads: "The Committee notes that the government will fully comply with the commitment set out in the fourth point of the 2015 average agreement." But then the ZIPRS government comes along and likes to say, "No, but we made a little mistake, there's no more 500, there's going to be 514.22 euros." And then the coalition MPs in awe, czech, and we are really fond of the municipalities and local self-government and so on, let's get a little bit eloquent on EUR 519. And the government already writes in the draft law, the means to increase, i.e. from 500,83 to 514,22, that funds will be provided by reallocations of spending rights, from the budget lines of other government budgetary users. Then comes this non-digestion of the opposition, which is proposing: "Don't joke, you've already mixed the system in February, now you're saving it in July, and let's give it 525 since 1 July. And we hear from the government and coalition partners: "No, but if it went to 525, we should have a budget." Figo. I'm just wondering where you're going to get these projected $13.75 million just like this, and the problem is an additional $5 million. However, if we had the next point, one opposition bill that would have the financial implications of €100,000 would have been rejected because the state does not have the money. But this country, where the main SMCs, of course they have no mayor, is the ninth, tenth or eleventh care there, easily boasts: "We are, and we will raise the average from 514 euros to 519 euros, but the opposition, but you are not, and you are going to 525 euros, and we cannot afford that, or we cannot afford that." In short, you change the average twice a year, you expect some serious work from the mayors, after you cut them off in February, you threaten them with what will happen with July 1st, and now you are good and we are bidding again from 514 to 519. I expected you to be even more receptive to local self-government today, but maybe the amount of €519.5 will be, and you will say that you have given the mayors so much and so much in relation to their citizens at the same meeting, and that you are really a favoured coalition to the municipalities. This is how the state plays with budgetary resources, first nothing, then 13 million, now another 5 million. Easy. If the opposition proposes anything or proposes anything, there is no way. But most of all, I was scared today when a coalition representative said in the introduction that the system needed to be changed. Dear mayors, hold on to your wallets, think about what you will do in 2016, 2017, because when this government says it will change the system in the area of community funding, as Jani said earlier, it will be even worse. What the current consumption of municipalities, investments – perhaps if you have a new law on volunteer work, citizens will work their own roads again in self-governance, and we are lucky to have our phones fixed and so on. This is probably what you will be doing there once in March 2016, so again during the current year. Respectable government coalition, especially Members of the SMC! I know you don't have mayors, but you can come to the Community of Municipalities and the Community of Municipalities and what former mayors and mayors in the National Assembly ask how to do local self-government. Not so from today to tomorrow, but a little finance up and down, but at least in December, come with serious action. But by serious measures, not by playing with local self-government.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u224	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I know that it is difficult for the coalition to listen to comments, which, of course, are well-intentioned and go by the opposition. But things about local self-government are so serious right now that we can say that local self-government is in intensive care. This intense care is, of course, the most expensive. And if, like colleague Jani, he thinks that the Minister of Finance is somehow going to fuck what happens to local self-government, then in fact, the Minister of Finance and the whole government should be more confident. We're back in trust, but we're always in trust. More and more trust in local self-government, because I have already said a thousand times that each euro will turn twice at local level before it is spent. Where does the most investment, the most public investment, run? Some 70 to 80% of public investment flows at the level of local self-government. Is that good for the country or not? Let's just take a look at the pomur water supply. The value of approximately €150 million. It is said that the country that the municipalities will implement with the help of European money will be 150 million richer. Is that negligible? It's not. And look, all of us, dear colleagues and colleagues, have received a lot of letters. I can't write these letters from the congregation, and I can't just throw them from the associations and from the community. I can't because it's not fair. And I have to be here because there's no mayors, they probably just gave up, or the gallery should be here, if there was room, for all 212 mayors. As I have already said, unfortunately local self - government, the congregations, do not have some strong political unions. So those who would be led by strong politicians. Therefore, they are simply ignored and are also violated by the European Charter of Local Self-Government. If I make it a little easier, because probably everyone accompanying these discussions doesn't know what the average actually means. The amount of the average, simplified, should cover the running costs and transfers of the congregation. Now let's see how the running costs of municipalities have been per capita in recent years. Everyone knows that these costs have increased. Why? Because we have also been here in this national assembly through laws, new laws, ever - new and new assignments to the congregations. And we took the money. If we look at the running costs, say, for 2009, they were €598 per capita. The average coverage at the time was 90%. 2010 coverage was 87%, 2011 almost 85%, 2012 83%, equal to 2013, last year coverage was 80.95%. The current costs were already €662 last year. Therefore, it is logical that the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia proposes and requires this year's average to be EUR 662 at the current cost of last year. And now we call it 519. Yeah, I get it. Look, there's no money. And then we don't get so high and boast that we have economic growth, that it's all about and everything, and that we've solved the issue of saving the country. Let us be honest and say that we have economic growth in last year, and this year it shows well. Despite the government's actions. Speaking of the European Charter of Local Self-Government, as already mentioned by my colleague Zvona Lach, yes, the current coalition and the government are obviously not in a position to do so or to do so. And somehow it does not take into account the current government and coalition that local authorities are one of the main foundations of any democratic regime. See, this European Charter of Local Self-Government was also summarized, signed, ratified, because we are a member of the Council of Europe. It is simply as if the current government and coalition do not understand that it is the right of citizens to participate in the management of public affairs, that this is in fact one of the democratic principles common to all the Member States of the Council of Europe. The Government does not take into account that this right can be exercised directly at the local level. When we talk about financing, we need to read Article 9 of the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which states, inter alia: "Local authorities are entitled, within the framework of national economic policy, to adequate own financial resources, with which they freely have their powers. The financial resources of local authorities must be in proportion to the tasks laid down in the law and the constitution." We have a problem here. Always new and new tasks and ever less and less money. This is no longer a local government, it is a dictatorship from Ljubljana, a dictatorship from Gregorčičeva, it is no longer a local government. Of course, I agree that the Ljubljana City Hall loses the most. Why? Because he has the most citizens. In absolute numbers, in absolute terms. Look at the rural congregations. We don't have any parking there. We're there, I'll say, more hospitable. I'm not gonna tell you how to do it in Pomura, Prekmurje. And the problem is that we lose thousands of euros at the annual level by the country. It's a problem. But tasks are always new and new. From kindergarten to community affairs to not talking about social transfers. Let us look at the percentage of registered unemployment in individual regions and so on. And what we are talking about today is a very serious matter, a very serious matter. Today we will not talk about making a mistake, not introducing a second level of local self-government, because everything would be different. The development of Slovenia would have gone in a different direction. Therefore, in New Slovenia we propose an amendment to Article 1 and consequently Article 2 to keep the average at the level of the first half of the year, which is EUR 525. We're only talking about 525 euros now, like this is some kind of coordinated starting point. It's not! The coordinated starting point is at least last year's average, which is EUR 536. We are reducing, reducing and disregarding the principle of subsidiarity, which is one of the key principles of Europe. We simply do not believe that some tasks in local self-government are more effective, this is said to be cheaper and better because of people, they are performed than with Gregorčič. I don't know why there's no such thing as a mental breakthrough. We had one minister, Gregor, who wanted to abolish the municipality. He wanted to break up half the congregations with the law. Fortunately, we stopped him from thinking about it. But now we have another phenomenon. The government and the coalition are closing down financial pipettes, which means that the municipalities in some way, as I said before, are putting them into intensive care and in some ways closing them down de facto, not de jure. Look, the congregations are rational. We have various measures set up by the congregations, neighboring congregations, if you will. We've got weather inspection. In particular, in our congregation, even though we do have the Law of Warfare, we do not yet use red tape. But now they've forced us to do this. The municipalities behave rationally and organize, and we will have inter-ethnic registrarism. The municipalities are rational, so don't tell me we're wasting money. Take a look at the small rural congregations, how many employees they have. You won't believe how little. You're not gonna believe this. And then one can be surprised that important projects of local as well as regional character are being carried out. That's why I'm asking you to support this amendment. I don't think that's going to know much about this in the country's budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u225	Thank you very much. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance mag has the floor. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u226	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to respond to some statements that I think are not entirely accurate. And first, I'm going to go back a little bit to the history of setting averages. Until 2011, the average rose. In 2012, the average of €554 was reduced to €543. In the middle of the summer. Not in January, but in the middle of the year. Provided that the costs of municipalities are reduced by 10%. And nothing happened. Not in 2012 but in 2013 and 2014, there was no political will to adopt a regulation, a law that would reduce the costs of municipalities. The only work done has been done in the field of public sector wages, where austerity measures have been taken, which have also affected the costs of community work. There is also a representative of municipal associations on the government negotiating team to negotiate with trade unions. As a result, we do not accept that the municipalities are not affected by wage policies in the public sector. It is true, however, that at least at this time, since I have been involved in such negotiations, the representative of the associations of the congregations has not felt or seen him in these negotiations. But I'd have a chance if I wanted to. At the end of last year, when we began negotiations with municipal associations on the average for this year, we had a valid law on the implementation of the budget setting an average of €525 this year and the desire to adopt what is stipulated by law with the municipalities in agreement. The municipalities were prepared to adopt €525 as an average for the first half of this year, by submitting to the National Assembly a proposal for a law on the reduction of public expenditure or on the balance of public finances of municipalities at the same time. And that was done. The municipalities said that if the law in the form we agreed on was adopted, the average reduction from 536 to 525 was covered. Since the public funding options that we had in January were not allowed to agree on this average for the whole year, we agreed to go into further cost reductions. And if we do that, the municipalities agree to an average of 500.83 euros. However, there was a condition, and this condition is written in such a way that it has two tasks for the government – whether it reduces the costs of the work of the municipalities or otherwise provides funds. Therefore, I say that the proposed law that we have put into the procedure fulfils our commitment under the agreement. Since we have not been able to reduce the costs for the whole amount, we have, in contrast, proposed a change in the average. One more thing about the structure of the funds used for the average. The municipalities account for 54% of the income each year. This year it's worth a billion and 18 million. However, this billion and 18 million are not enough to cover the total amount of the average, so a financial settlement is added as a direct transfer, an ongoing transfer from the state budget. At present, a good 41 million are provided. If a proposal for a law is adopted, as supplemented by a Saturday session of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, it will be necessary to ensure that the financial compensation of 60 million is paid in full. This difference can be ensured through internal transfers within the state budget. Income cannot affect the automatic increase in expenditure. Expenditure must remain within the framework of the maximum amount of expenditure or spending rights on the expenditure side of the State budget, as determined by the budget balance. However, this 60 million is not the only transfer we provide to the municipalities. All transfers this year, other transfers this year are for 507 million, plus 60 million. Of these are 20 million other ongoing transfers, the remaining are investment transfers. 93 million are integrated funds for investment transfers; the remaining are European funds. As already mentioned today, this essentially means 18% more than last year. Once again, I would like to say that it has been repeatedly said today, the average is used to ensure the financing of the legal obligations of the municipalities. This is not an investment. The involvement of municipalities in the implementation of European projects is in no way jeopardised. For these purposes, we provide 393 million European funds and a large share of 93.4 million integrated funds. When we are talking in essence about the independence of local communities or that we need to provide them with a financial basis, that they can act and mention the European Charter of Local Self-Government, we should probably also mention the Constitutional Court's decision concerning the determination of the average amount adopted in connection with the Law on the Enforcement of Budgets in 2010 and 2011. It shows a slightly different picture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Marusha Škopac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u228	Under the current law, the average for 2015 is set at EUR 525 for the first half and EUR 500.83 for the second half of the year. The initial government proposal for the average for the second half of the year amounted to EUR 514 and is based on calculated estimated savings that can be achieved by the municipalities if all the legislative changes that the government has drawn up for this purpose are used. Nevertheless, at the proposal of coalition parliamentary groups within different ministries, the government has sought additional reserves and the government's average proposal is now EUR 519. As Mrs Vraničar, Secretary of State, said at a Saturday session of the Committee on Finance and also just now, this is also the limit that does not require a budget rebalancing. For any higher average would mean just that. From 2008 to 2014, the revenue of the municipalities increased and during the same period the municipal budgets increased by 8 %. At the same time, the state budget is falling. The revenues of the State budget are thus still lower than those achieved in 2008. We know that the Ministry of Public Administration is carrying out joint public procurements, which can also be joined by the municipalities, if they so wish. However, when we look at the data of the Ministry of Public Administration in how many municipalities actually apply and take advantage of this possibility, we find that fighting a little, the layman gets the feeling that they do not feel the need for rational behaviour. Of course, not all public contracts are suitable for all municipalities, nor do they need new motor vehicles or natural gas this year. It would be difficult to say, though, that only three congregations need new office materials. When I cycle around Ljubljana, I find that the crowd of local roads are completely renovated, which I cannot claim for the main roads whose repair depends on the resources of the state budget. It is also easy to see new schools and cultural homes and so on, which is certainly commendable. The question is whether dimensions are always appropriate. I often feel that the objects are pre-dimensionated and that we like to buy Ferraris, and then we don't have gas or registration or new tires.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u229	Thank you. The word is from Dr. Franc Duck [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u230	Thank you for your word. I have to start with one thing I didn't mean, I'd ask you to stop using car metaphors. In the 21st century we should develop public passenger traffic. As my colleague Jani said, I can look there at the Ministry, at the portal, what are all the mandatory tasks of the congregations. I essentially wanted to provoke the Ministry to see if they were seriously getting involved or having any matrix, Mr Horvat went, whether they had some system of linear equations, so to speak, where they were watching how to bring this famous formula together. With all due respect to the Secretary of State, I think we're getting this debate wrong. The Member of Parliament already said that the Ministry of Finance is not interested in the development of local self-government. We do not have a meaningful conversation here with these congregations. Mrs Vraničareva, probably whoever was in her place would have done the same, is the guardian of the state budget and tries to squander, trying to go home to Slovenia, if I say so myself, so that you will understand. I could have mentioned the European Charter, I could have mentioned something else, but the autonomy of local self-government without some budget autonomy is not, as Mr Lach said beautifully and visually. In fact, if there's no money, if you don't have a place to go, you can't go to local government. The SMC coalition somehow mentions a series of facts that should go to their excuses. One thing is, if you give people who work in the congregations to reduce their wages, you can say it yourself. We kind of did that. I don't know, but you go to some middle-class or small-ranking congregation, and I wonder how these people are doing their homework, because their day is also 24 hours long. With all these tasks, with all this intense bureaucracy, I'm not surprised that someone is ever guilty of a crime, unless they've been prosecuted, because they just can't react to everything. Everyone likes to talk about investments. When I talk to people from SVRK and tell them if they have any field units, they say they do. I'm not going to explain it any further because I'm running out of time. Each euro is reversed twice, it is very welcome to say, at local level. Let's stop mythology. There are congregations that work well, and they also have corruption and kleptocracy. Go read the reports of the Court of Auditors. And if we were to continue this metaphor of yours, then I would say that the congregations should turn this euro five times. We could talk about the concrete mafia, we could talk about the garbage mob, we could talk about the ski mafia in Maribor or something. The problem is that somehow we are dealing with the budget item, but we are not dealing with the content of the budget item. Finally, you are proposing amendments, why not consider at least two thirds of the economic growth of Slovenia this year. If I'm counting through my thumb, there should be an amendment of EUR 532,50 and we would give them a third, and we would say, let's give part of economic growth to the Slovenian municipalities in which we live. All this debate is kind of going on, and I probably also have to agree that the SMC is somehow not yet involved in this policy at local level and that it does not somehow understand all of this story. I'm going to repeat again one story that I may have told too loudly earlier, my parents have criticised me, the social transfers that we somehow cut out by looking for this money, I don't hear anything about it. Same debate I heard about managing state property. After all, the best thing for us Members to do is to set up some robots, because obviously there is no room for people in this country. What about the social transfers that were cut off? For someone, it may be small money, but for some specific people who cannot provide themselves with a constitutional basic matter, such as the proper residence provided by the Constitution, they are not small matters. Are we going to recast the constitution and throw it out? Let's start talking substantively, because otherwise it doesn't make any sense. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u232	Thank you very much. I hope that Mr Trček will not fight me again, but with the last sentence I absolutely agree with him. There is a need to begin substantive discussions on the number of municipalities, on the tasks of municipalities, on the financing of municipalities. Of course, today, given that we are not increasing them to reduce funds for the municipalities, it would be wise to be silent, in general, to the Social Democrats, who, unlike others who have been very loud today, have 20 mayors. And we are extremely proud of them. As a result, we know that the mayors can work and have done enormous things in all these 20 years for local self-government, for the people living in these municipalities, and not least for the economic growth that we have today. Joseph Horvath said that the congregations were in intensive care. Yes, they are. I hope the Ministry of Finance is aware of that. But I'm afraid some other ministries don't realize that. This is as important a topic as the fiscal rule we adopted two days ago. And it would be very good for any other minister to sit here and listen to this debate. We have taken the municipalities since 2011, as said by the Secretary of State, almost EUR 20, 30 per capita. During this time, the municipalities invested most in European projects and it is normal for them to come to a stage when they are in intensive care. There were not as many new tasks at that time as the municipalities were involved in this funding. Even though I know Jani will jump right away, I remember the real estate law when we adopted it in the previous government, when the Ministry of Finance of the Alliance, which I will say today is a relatively strong fight for the municipalities, and when we talked about this real estate law, Desus and SD, that it is necessary to have it as an original income for the municipalities, was the logic of the Ministry of Finance and then Cufer that 200 million should be collected and that they should be "handed" into the state budget. At the time, it was fine, but today for five million, it is certainly pleasing to speak as an opposition, but there was no thought in that direction. All I have to do is react to a major acquaintance of Mr Lach's municipalities, but to compare it, you've probably missed the chance that the next mayors will be just VDC mayors, which you've lost a little bit, and all of them don't deserve it, not one and not the other. Now there's something else about the mayors. I was also mayor for a while, but I asked my colleagues around not to compete with each other. And we competed on who would have a larger circular circle, who would make a bigger monument on the circular crossroad, who would make another sports hall with who would make a bigger cinema. All this needs people, I agree, but sometimes the mayors, regardless of popularity, should step a little on the burden, because building is easy, but maintaining is still a little harder. I'll support this amendment of the coalition today. This is really about bidding, I agree, 514, 519 and then your bidding is 525. I am sorry that Mr Koprivnikar has no longer taken the time with the municipalities to agree, but in the meantime he was able to meet with some sellers who are selling or buying Slovenian property, and I hope that this effort will continue. I'm a sociodemocrat, representing these values. I've been suffering for a week because I realize that reality is different. We'll have another important marriage on Friday. It is also about €4 million to €5 million when we talk about school food. Once again, of course, the United Left used to like to jump off this average, but I won't be as sharp there as I am now. I expect that if we have already reduced the funds here to a few million to try a few million for hungry children by Friday. Because with these millions that we took from the mayors today, don't let my ex-colleague mayors resent me, as I've said many times before, we're going to do a smaller event, and maybe we won't have to have Severina sing, but Tanja Žagar can sing, and she'll be fine, and people will be happy. Because sometimes too much money is going in this direction from municipal budgets. Above all, we need to begin to discuss the content of what we will have on the basis of marriage or whether we will be uniting congregations or not. There is much more to say, for there are many people in this hall who understand each other very well at local government. That's what I mean. I will support this amendment of the coalition for €519 and hope that most municipalities will not have to accept the budget rebalancing. For smaller municipalities, this is a nominally smaller amount, but what Jani says has a significantly more impact on the functioning of the congregation than in the city’s municipalities, which in some ways also have other resources, which the smaller municipalities unfortunately do not have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u233	Replica, Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u234	My friend Han, I'm not going to freak out, I'm not going to jump anything up, only when we're doing a comparison, we need to be corrected. Given that you misunderstood me, I'm explaining the following from the replica. I said, and this can be confirmed by the Secretary of State, I have no problem with the average falling if this is agreed. But the deal wasn't respected. The tasks are supposed to be reduced and reported, which ones. That wasn't there. Unlike in real estate, since you mentioned them, in the property tax, because you already mentioned them, where we needed 200 million, let me say we had an agreement. At that time, Mr Kontic, the mayor of Velenje, led this agreement by the municipal municipalities, and we agreed that we would have a transitional period of three years. And we respected him, and we wrote him in marriage. That's the difference, Mr. Han. But then I'm gonna do the rest so I don't abuse the replica in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Procedural? Replica 10 seconds, no more.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u236	The United Left, of course, does not create any cheap populism, but comes from Article 2 of the Constitution and tries to provide social security in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Jani Mödendorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u238	It's different, but O.K. It's okay. Life happens as long as it's funny and not perfect. I have to say, I'm a little confused because here I heard the secretary of state talking about 60 million, and at first I thought we were talking about 22 million. That was the announcement. Now I don't know what period these 60 million are for. This seems very important to me, because otherwise I would have understood that it was a delusion. A colleague of Skopac discussed what had been done and where and who should have done something. Look, I hope we're not fighting the mayor now because they were taking care of the roads and taking care of the municipality's infrastructure. If this is a sin, then it's better not to go to the local community anymore. That's their primary assignment. You know, the mayors are doing a low-down, but a low-level job, one you can't see, and that's their primary job. If they don't do it, it doesn't make sense, does it? But it is true that Ljubljanans and all others who have their own congregations see more or less only what is visible. That is why there has been a great deal of this in recent times. But it's true that now this money is getting less and less. State roads, no offense, not this year, not last year, all the years are maintained for one fuck. And practically nothing works on them. You can see what's at the Ministry of Transport. The smallest items are for roads, and this is the worst of woes. I told you once in the debate that you can see the boundaries of one congregation and another, where there is a municipal road. But where it's state-owned, you can't set a limit anymore because the state doesn't handle these things. You also mentioned that the government is preparing legal changes. I must say that we cannot base some decisions on something that the government may someday take. Where do you guarantee this will really be accepted? Do we have any guarantees? We don't even have one. You know what already came into this national council, and then it wasn't finally adopted. Or it was predicted, and then it never came. That's why I agree with my colleague Han here. I fully agree that there should be a minister of Koprivnik. If there's anything interdisciplinary, it's definitely one of those. And that's because in the beginning I've already said that the Ministry of Finance doesn't care about the content because it's not being dealt with. They're interested in income, expenditure, spending, short of where they're going to patch. And that's all. The Minister of Finance, each time, was the guardian, the key to the budget. What he cares about is whether or not we agree on something or not, or usually not, all ministers have problems with the Minister of Finance because he cuts them off, especially when the flags fall in September. Therefore, to make excuses for something that will once be adopted, if adopted, is not an argument for change. What seems even more important to me is this. Today I have heard several times, and this comparison continues to be made that smaller congregations will lose more, not so many congregations. Yes, it will look nominally more, but in reality you know what small congregations do and especially that they do not have other resources. That's not true. The Law on Local Self - Administration is the same for all congregations. And the Law on Local Self - Administration allows each congregation the possibility of collecting certain taxes. But they don't want them. But they don't want them for a simple reason. Because they decided not to run such policies, secondly, because they felt that this might not bring them anything and thirdly, because just one thing is not comparable. And until they're comparable, it's crazy to say that city halls have too much money. Excuse me, in any other discussion, in any other way, when we speak to Mr Koprivnikar, I will be very clear about what all the big city halls must do or cannot say that they will no longer do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u239	Thank you. The word has magic. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u240	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Earlier, Mr Trček said that Members of the SMC did not get involved in local self-government and that, of course, it was easy, well, maybe not literally that he said, but that we somehow did not understand local self-government. I have to say, that's not true. Even if we do not have this number of Members, Members of the SMC are extremely involved in local self-government at the local level. At least for myself and my two colleagues on the Coast and also in Crassus, I can say that we have visited all the mayors, that we know the problem and that at least 20 projects are of such importance that we have already done or are in the final stage for this area. But that means that it's not really our wish to be here in Parliament just to have mayors. So all these mayors will hate us and the SMC will never have mayors. We are here to work for the well-being of people, not to maintain our positions as someone else. As for the local government itself, for me, local self - government is an exceptional acquisition and has done a great deal. It's very important to people how they live in their place. They give all the credit for everything they've done. But the fact is, the situation is changing. And as the state needs to change, so must local self-government. It is also true that an agreement has been reached or reached and that the government has not fully fulfilled these commitments will replace it with an average. The fact is, however, that the average applies to the legal obligations of the municipalities. And the fact is, it does not excuse us that the congregations of these offered options have not used all of them. For example, the possibilities of integration at administrative level are said to be shared by the municipal administration. That won't make the content suffer. Much more can be done, this content can be combined, and this is what we should begin to talk about when one congregation ends, a completely new arrangement begins at the border of another congregation. This is what is wrong, and here the congregations must take a step forward. If we look at the case, there was a chance of a joint defence. If the congregations had done so, they would have saved something. It's not that we want to take them to intensive care, but we need to change our minds. What Mrs Vraničarova did not say in the end is that the autonomy of local self-government does not mean absolute autonomy, as it does not mean the autonomy of universities of absolute autonomy. They're autonomous in their content. What the Constitutional Court said in the last decision mentioned by Mrs Vraničar is that the municipalities are themselves responsible for their funding. You wanted to say that, but you didn't say it, which is why I said it. I also find it somewhat insulting to think that the Ministry of Finance is not interested in the congregation, they are interested in only money. I don't think we need words like that. What seems crucial to me is the preparation of a local self-government strategy prepared by the Ministry of Public Administration, which is very intensely discussed with the municipalities, I believe that this is a process, all changes are difficult, but I believe that in a few years we will certainly make progress. And that's what we really want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u241	Thank you. Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky. You can't have a replica because you're running out of time. Anybody else want to discuss this? Ma'am mag. Matthew Vraničar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u242	Thank you very much. In fact, for each number, there is content. And I'm interested in the content behind the individual numbers. If that were not the case, this year we would not have had so much contact and so much bargaining with municipal associations and, last but not least, would not lead to the adoption of individual measures to reduce the costs of municipalities. Another thing, one more time about numbers, a little bit slower. The agreement agreed that the level of cost reduction at the annual level should amount to 22.8 million savings. If the average in the first half of 525 and in the second half of 500,83, as is still the case in the current law on the implementation of the budget, then in addition to 54% of the income to the municipalities, a good 41 million transfers of financial compensation should be provided for this average to be paid. If we want to raise the average from 500,83 to 519 in the second half of this year, as is currently the case in the amended bill, an additional 19 million financial compensation or at an annual level of 60 million should be provided. I hope I've made myself clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u243	Procedurally, Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u244	Thank you for your word. I've heard a lot about facts before, a whole bunch of facts. The fact is that there is no minister here who is actively involved in this area, because, I don't know, sells Telekom or anything, so my procedural proposal is that we stop this point and continue it on Wednesday in the presence of the Minister of Public Administration. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u245	Anybody else want to discuss this? Of course, the procedural proposal is not adopted. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Procedurally, Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u246	I demand that my proposal be put to the vote. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u247	Given that we have in our midst a representative of the Government who can answer all the questions, your procedural proposal is not accepted. Among the authorised representatives are: Mag. Mateja Vraničnik, Draganja Method, Irene Sodin, Aloysium Boh, Mag. Marjetka Mahne and Maria Arnož. They're all actually here, so I don't see any reservations about breaking this point and continuing it on Wednesday. Procedurally, Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u248	Procedurally. I'm reshaping my proposal. Please let all these gentlemen come here to be here. I could be a lot of people, too. You have also preconceived, Mrs. Vraničarova, that you know how to answer all the questions. From now on, I'm gonna pull a magnetogram and you're gonna answer all my questions. I'm not kidding. These are serious matters. Even those government representatives you read about sitting here aren't here. I'm sorry, it's after the election for a year, let's get some manners started. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u249	Dr. Franz Trcek, all those I have listed are authorized to participate here today. Mag. Matthew Vraničar clearly answered the questions. Your procedural proposal is not accepted. Anyone else want to discuss it from those who have time to discuss it? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. I hereby end this agenda item, and I also interrupt the 10th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by the vote at 20.40.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u250	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the termination of item 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income by Emergency Procedure. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 13. Seven. 2015, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the SDS Group shall be mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u251	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose that long-term investments in agricultural and forestry activities linked to payments for the start-up of young farmers' activities be considered among the exemptions to the Income Act. While we support the proposed amendments to the Income Act in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that this exemption should also be very exact. This exemption is not mixed with any other exemption and, last but not least, it is a visible and business plan made by young farmers when they want to start an agricultural or forestry activity. The business plan also shows that these are earmarked funds and that income payments will be exempt from actual funds for the start-up of agricultural or forestry activities. From this point of view, we do not see any difficulty in causing any administrative problems for the financial administration, or in creating some opportunities for tax evasion. Last but not least, the financial resources that may initially prove to be a mannequin in the budgets are insignificant and the effects of such an exemption are extraordinary. Firstly, not only in financial terms to increase agricultural and forestry activities, but also this has a positive impact on space, on the equal settlement of the whole of Slovenia and also on the social situation of all citizens and citizens. We therefore propose that this amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party be supported and that a better future for young people in the countryside be ensured.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u252	Ms Vojka Shergan has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u253	With regard to the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will vote against the Modern Centre Party. This is because the law itself presented by the Government allows all those farmers who will invest in their farms to increase their food production and thereby increase their self-sustainment and invest in organic farming and invest in agricultural development at all. Because of this, we cannot support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u254	We vote on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 54. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 54.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1a. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 55. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 55.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the SDS Group shall be mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u255	Thank you very much. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support amendments to the Income Act, despite the fact that the two amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party have not been supported. This is mainly because we believe that these changes bring less administrative burden on farmers, less bureaucratic barriers, and also exemptions from certain incomes or incomes, which mean investment in agriculture, which is a start-up in agriculture. Notwithstanding the fact that the income amendment relating to the start-up of the activity has not been adopted, but has already been explained in the main proceedings or in the debate by representatives of the Chamber of Agriculture and Economy, that this is not the same as the means of investment, we believe that this law follows the law signed by 5,000 voters and voters, and which has also been the subject of these discussions. Then the marriage was united and, after all, many good solutions were taken. We believe that the law is also appropriate from this point of view and will contribute to better production, to the better position of farmers and foresters, as well as to more competitive food production in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u256	Ms Vojka Shergan has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u257	In the Modern Centre party, we will support this Income Act for the reason that with the signed 5,000 electorates and electorates we have aligned this law, somehow adapted this legislation and agreed. With this exemption from income payments, as I said earlier, farmers, young takers will have reliefs, investment reliefs, so that we will support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u258	Mr Jožev Horvat has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u259	Thank you very much, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! New Slovenia's Parliamentary Group - Christian Democrats will support the amendment of the Income Act. We especially appreciate the efforts made by the 5,000 voters and voters who, somehow under the tactics of the Agricultural Forestry Chambers, collected signatures and requested or proposed to the National Assembly the amendment of the Income Act. The new rules of the European Union's common agricultural policy bring some new types of payments, support for agricultural quality schemes, payments for organic farming and payments for environmental and climate production. Income payments will be exempt from all compensation and cash assistance paid for natural and other accidents and damage caused by wild animals. We have repeatedly talked about the fact that agriculture is not only food production, but agriculture is also an activity that preserves our cultural landscape, nature as we like to say. Sometimes we who live in this beautiful Slovenia somehow don't see it or miss it. And then foreign tourists come and show us the beauty of our landscape – and who does that, who does it? They're mostly farmers. The area of taxes is already extremely important, and when we talk about the area of taxes, which is tanning agricultural producers, we need to be particularly sensitive to parliamentarians. The solutions brought forward by this amendment to the law are a good one, a small step towards a more favourable tax policy for agricultural producers or income-bearing farmers. For this reason, as it is said, the New Slovenia Group will support the amendment of the Income Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u260	So we can vote. We're voting. 86 Members and Members were present and 86 were voted against and no one opposed them. [[The vote was 86.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. We are moving on to the conclusion of the legislative procedure for a proposal for a law that was not the basis for the drafting of an amended proposal for a law. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the assembly to adopt the following decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Act, the reduced procedure submitted to the National Assembly by 5,000 voters and voters, is not appropriate for further consideration. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 55 for them and 6 for them. [[The vote was 55.]] [[There were six votes against.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 29th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a decree on the country's capital investment management strategy. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled of 10. Seven. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to the fifth chapter, the classification of the country's capital investments. An explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors shall be given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u261	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Although we have made clear in the United Left that this proposal for a strategy as a whole is not both formal and substantively appropriate for further consideration and our proposal has been rejected, we have tried to contribute constructively to the country's investment management strategy, which could be called a strategy, on the parent committee. Most of the amendments have been imported, but today we have tried this for chapter five, which is still open to at least minimally eliminate the nonconsistencies that have accumulated in this document. With this amendment, we would reach into three things. 15 companies, or those from the infamous list of 15, which have not yet been sold, would have been classified as State investments because this decision, which was adopted in the National Assembly, does not indicate that these companies should be regarded as portfolios, but, as Mr Secretary at some point on the Committee himself has recognised, at least Cinkar Celje should be an important undertaking and Telekom Slovenije should be important or strategic if they were fair and evaluated by the classification proposed in this strategy. That is why we propose that this be included. That's another thing. Krka, Gorenje and Petrol would become strategic companies on our proposal, because once again, if we follow the letters of the proposed classification, if we follow the letters of the company evaluation, these companies need to get enough points to become strategic companies. That's the first argument why you should be. Secondly, since the coalition is aware that they are strategic, it has now adopted a clause on diversified ownership, which cannot be applied because a simple state in these companies does not have sufficient ownership to change the statutes of these companies, and the Legislative and Legal Service and lawyers have pointed out that it is therefore impossible to implement this clause. And the only way that we can at least partially realize this clause in her spirit is by transforming them, reclassifying them into strategic ones, and thus giving clear instructions to the manager of the state to treat them in this way. The third amendment, however, touches the Bank and the Bank of Celje, which are, in fact, already united banks, but not formally, but again, as Mr Secretary himself has said, this will happen in this quarter. If we are to adopt a strategy that is supposed to be a long-term document, we need to take this situation to the de facto united bank as such and therefore propose that this change be made. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] If we want to be consistent, we're counting on support. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u262	The explanation for the vote on behalf of the Alliance's Group shall be mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u263	Thank you very much. We will not support our parliamentary group of amendments. Not because companies like Gorenje, Krka or Petrol would be irrelevant to us, but because colleagues from the United Left did not give us an answer where you would get the money to increase our shares to 50% and one vote, as stipulated in Article 14 of the Slovenian State Holding Act. And we're not talking about a few hundred thousand euros, but we're talking about concrete millions. I believe that someone else would be happy to support such an amendment only if they said, because it is now about explaining the voice and, of course, you can't find any money for it. Since it seems irresponsible for us to simply table amendments without having any financial coverage for this amendment, we will not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u264	Is there any other explanation at the level of the parliamentary groups? Individual? The explanation of the vote in its own name is given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u265	Thank you for your word. I forgot one thing in my voice explanation. This is that the law does not assume that if companies are reclassified to strategically that state ownership needs to be increased to 50%. The law simply assumes that if these companies are strategic, the owner of the state property must not sell any shares. In fact, we further ensure that the main word in these strategic companies is maintained by the state, not by other buyers, who can also obtain majority ownership through different mechanisms beyond this clause. That is why I would like to stress once again. This does not imply that the State must acquire additional shares in order to reach 50%. This is not in marriage, and the lawyers we consulted told us so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u266	However, the explanation of vote suggests that you say you will vote in favour. The explanation of the vote in its own name is mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u267	Thank you very much. I will vote against the amendment myself because Article 14 of the Slovenian State Holding Act in paragraph 1 sets out the minimum share of investments defined by the strategy as strategic investments is 50% and one vote. And that's all that can be strategic. Once again, I would like to point out that we are no less interested in companies such as Krka, Petrol and Gorenje than the United Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u268	We vote on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left by 5. Chapter, Classification of State capital investments. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 7 votes against 78. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 78.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home working body, the motion for a decision would not be harmonised. We are moving on to a full decision on the proposal for a decision. An explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors shall be given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u269	Thank you for your word, again. Here I must say that in the United Left we had a hard time expecting a strategy for managing state investments, because we are convinced that this is a key document that has been missing for the last 20, 25 years in Slovenia. Throughout the economy since 1991, there has been a lack of strategy on what we want to do with our economy, whose sectors are a priority for our economy, where we will create new jobs, how we will lead regional development. We know the consequences of that today. Once flowering industries, such as the electricity industry run by Iskra, such as the woodworking industry, have collapsed, and the country is sinking increasingly into the global and European periphery. It is not too late, so we expected the Mir Cerar Party, now the Modern Centre Party, which promised a development breakthrough somewhere before the elections, with a strategy in Slovenian political space, to bring exactly this, says the answer to the question of what we will develop, how will new jobs, how will we take care of regional development. Unfortunately, the strategy that we have before us does not bring this either on a substantive or formal basis. On the substantive side, it answers only one question, from which companies the country will withdraw or, in other words, which companies and to what extent it will privatise. If we remove all the ballast in this strategy, we end up with no other than the classification of state investments, which is unfortunately only one list for privatisation and we give it to the same seller, namely the Slovenian State Holding Company, which now sells Telekom and sells NKBM, in the hands of all other state assets worth EUR 11 billion, without defining factors such as employment, non-financial management objectives without defining any other vision in this strategy as a simple ideological illusion that privatisation will in itself bring about development. This is the first reason why we will vote against it. The second reason, which I have already stated earlier, is that the strategy is inappropriate even after formal salary, which in parts refers to objectives that are not nationally coordinated, but are government labour materials, here I am talking about the banking strategy and the insurance strategy, is inconsistent with what is enshrined in the coalition contract, is inconsistent with the State Holding Act and is inconsistent with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. Therefore, in our view, it should not be considered at all. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] and we will vote against it. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u270	Mr Jožef Horvat has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u271	Thank you very much. The New Slovenia Group will vote against this decree. Of course, we all agree that we need a country's capital investment management strategy or should have it in this country long ago. In the beginning, he made a lot of promises to this document. That's a lot. We were in a positive mood when we looked at how this strategy came about when, after all, Minister Marble and Secretary of State came to introduce us. Later, within the coalition, harassment began, and the profession fell. The line's down. Today we have a document called the State Capital Investment Management Strategy Ordinance, which definitely stops privatisation. This means stopping the withdrawal of policies from the economy and stopping the search for responsible or more responsible owners. This means that many generations more Members and Members will talk or, rather, argue about how to manage a certain national economic operator or which policy option will have a larger ATM. Also SDH, which should be an apolitical holding company, we see that this is not. Every time, for example, a process of privatising some state ownership, there is always a political adage, an open mouth in one way or another, and it collapses shares. This is the result of policy interference with state investment. We regret that more than a two-thirds majority of state investments have become or remain strategic, which means: we do not give ours, we do not privatise, and so we will continue to mix politically in individual state-owned companies. We regret that it did not prevail over the professional thinking of Minister Marble as regards the Triglav Insurance Company, which said that the Triglav Insurance Company should be a regional player, but that, of course, it would not work, because it itself cannot do so, but could become part of the insurance network or within and with a global insurance company. We do not agree to refer to the 2007 referendum when the 28 saints of the then state council rose above the then SDS plus NSI plus SLS plus DeSUS coalition and launched a referendum called the Nationalisation of the Triglav Insurance Company. We regret and Insurance Triglav will be less valuable every year. It is true that she will put four millets in the pension register at best, and on average one will pass into the pension register. We therefore oppose this decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u272	The explanation for the vote on behalf of the SDS Group shall be mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u273	Mr President, thank you for the floor. We will not support the proposal for a resolution of the strategy in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. We won't support him for a number of reasons. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the proposal to classify investments stops privatisation, while also stopping the development of competing Slovenian companies. To stop privatisation, we are also convinced that in the last days of SDH has issued a five-year bond of EUR 100 million, and this clearly shows that the proposal for the SDH classification will not be able to meet its obligations without additional debt. We believe in the SDS that the strategy document is poorly written, that it does not contain those key elements that the strategy should contain. Finally, this strategy also includes refugees who are not known by a serious country, such as dispersed ownership. This clearly shows that the government of Mira Cerar and the current coalitions of Social Democrats and Desus want to maintain power and influence corporate governance, the appointment of supervisory councils, the appointment of administrations. With this in mind, we believe in the SDS that not only will companies continue to be managed under the same lever, in particular that you consciously have also decided that, because of this dispersed ownership in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, there will be significantly lower revenues from purchases and Slovenian companies will not be able to provide serious strategic partners. We are confident that you will accept this responsibility on your own as to how state ownership will be managed in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u274	Mr Franc Laj has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u275	Mr President, thank you for saying so. The country's capital investment management strategy is a core document of our country, with which the state of Slovenia has for the first time in its history communicated to all stakeholders both to investment managers and to shareholders, to the wider capital market, the general public its objectives in the management of state-owned companies. The strategy is certainly one of the basic tools for the quality functioning of SDH, for efficient corporate governance with clearly defined objectives and expected economic public finances and social impacts. We therefore support the proposal for a resolution on the strategy in the Modern Centre Group because we believe that the strategy represents a major step towards effective and socially responsible governance of state assets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u276	The explanation for the vote on behalf of the Alliance's Group shall be mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u277	We will not support the management strategy in the Group of Members. There are two main reasons. One is substantive and the other is the process of adopting this strategy. The Slovenian State Holding Act envisioned anything other than what is happening with the strategy today when it was adopted and amended. It is true that today we have listened to how we will sell everything and, on the other hand, how we stop privatisation. Of course not one thing and not the other, the truth is somewhere in between. However, the government and the coalition would expect a little more effort to put into coordination, make sure that this document is adopted with the broadest possible political consensus and, more importantly, that it should be valid for at least some time. No, no, no. You have even introduced into the strategy with the amendment that you will revise this strategy, read, change it within a year. As I have already said, our parliamentary group will not support the strategy.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u278	We're done explaining our voice. In your own name? Please sign up. Mr Uroš Prikl has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u279	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I will support the management strategy. I think that's a good basis for active management. At the same time, I assess that the adoption of this strategy can achieve a key fundamental objective, namely transparency and the long-term objectives of managing capital investments. In the strategy itself, I see not only and only sales as the sale of a share of state-owned enterprises, but also, as has been said, effective governance. I believe that this strategy is a good compromise between what has been said, on the one hand, the total cessation of the divestment procedures and, on the other hand, the sale of state property, not to say social property. And what I see as positive, in contrast to some, is that somehow after one year we will make an inventory, do an audit, do activities related to the divestment of shares of state property and self-management with those shares that will not be resold, and then think about how to complement and continue the work that is planned. In any case, I believe that this is the first step towards optimal management of the country's assets, which will be taken by adopting this strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u280	The explanation of vote in its own name is given by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u281	Thank you for your word, chairman. Of course, the strategy is necessary, it is important. With the exception of the United Left, you have had every opportunity in the last 20 years to draw up and prepare this strategy. A good year ago, a gentleman spoke about project cooperation, and there was nothing left of this project cooperation beyond the coalition. A little less than a year ago, another gentleman was talking about a toilet. There's no record of this. In my 20 professional years, I've written quite a few strategies. This document does not answer a whole series of key questions. Why isn't he answering? In the morning, I quoted Vaclav Havel as saying, because there are also no documents that we should have previously accepted in order to somehow write a strategy of this kind together and show some unsettling attitude towards the last eleven billion bookkeeping assets. And what's not, then I can't support it. It's definitely not a strategy. It seems to me that we have been under-emphasized when you read the second part of this so-called non-strategic document, it is very clear that gentlemen from certain companies in certain sectors have written this non-strategic from certain lobbies, including some interests. Let's say one such beautiful interest is that probably energy is separated from energy in Slovenia's largest edge – an infrastructure part of energy sales. Another such point is that it will be similar on rail infrastructure. The third indication is that Luka Koper will be sold as part of this railway infrastructure and could still be listed. In short, more than too many indictments are that it's on one side of the sale, some promised privatisation abroad, and on the other hand, czech, we old lobbies will continue to work as we did [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u282	Mr Janko Weber has an explanation of vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u283	Thank you for your word. When the Slovenian State Holding Act was passed, I objected to the content that it wanted to transfer at the moment of state ownership to the property of the company, and I also called it a robbery for centuries then. And today, when we talk about a decision on a capital investment management strategy, we must stress that there is an act before us that is not legally binding. It is only an expression of political will, and with this political will we are finally taking away the influence of the National Assembly on eleven billion assets. We must say that this political will does not address the public financial aspect, which today is crucial if we are to tell people what we really want with these eleven billion. This aspect has not been addressed. Of course, the National Assembly will have no control because we do not have the criteria for actually selling shares in companies when we decide to sell, which sales strategy to collect, and not least, the social aspect is not taken into account. Although it is indicated, there is no indication of how to take it into account. And if we look at the economic aspect, while it is envisaged to be sold out, the practice in Slovenia is catastrophic. If we've just talked about selling our property, we can talk about giving it away today. We literally donated the new Maribor Credit Bank and the Postal Bank. With this, the country has lost 1.2 billion euros, and I feel that the strategy is actually that formality to avoid the National Assembly, but of course there is a hidden buyer in the back. That is why I will not support this strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u284	There's obviously going to be another round of explanations for your vote, so please sign in. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has an explanation of vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u285	Thank you very much, President. I will not support this strategy or this document, because in reality it is not a problem to know whether or not it is a sale, but above all we do not know what this act is. If we don't know that, then we have a serious problem. I don't mind that we have different views on what the strategy is supposed to be, but at least what I was surprised at is that the strategy after the new can change a little bit. The government presents something, comes to Parliament, and then we have actually given a very clear message to all companies, all those who in fact lead in one way or another to actually find their representatives within this assembly, and in fact the strategy will ultimately be what it is. But I am even more disappointed, this prediction that we can even expect a change in the strategy in a very short time. What is even more terrifying is that we have already made it clear in the SDH leadership and in the supervisory world that there is actually not much to do, because it may be a little different in a year. And that's really a big problem. In such cooperation or in such a management programme, which the National Assembly gives as a guide on behalf of the Government, I regret that I cannot participate alone.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u286	Are we done here? Yeah. Then we vote on the proposal for a decree on the country's capital investment management strategy. We're voting. There were 86 Members and Members present, 52 for them and 33 for them. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 33.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. This is the second reading of the draft law on tax clearance of accounts in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 10. Seven. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u287	Thank you for your word, chairman. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have proposed this amendment for one simple reason, because we do not believe that cash payments can cover payments with a payment card or a credit card. Even after this debate, there is no way we can agree to a double interpretation of the laws here today. Under the Tax Procedure Act, credit card payments are exempted from cash payments, whereas under this Act on tax clearance of accounts payments are credit card payments. That is why we are proposing this amendment, which of course we will support.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u288	We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 27 for them and 53 for them. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Alliance's Group to Article 3(1). If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 3 shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 28 for them and 49 for them. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 3(2). We're voting. There were 84 Members and Members present, 28 of whom were voted against and 50 were voted against. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 3(3). We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 59. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 59.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 4. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u289	Thank you for your word. In the beginning, the government of Mir Cerar somehow committed itself not to impose additional tax and administrative burdens on the economy. This is exactly what the tax registers themselves are doing, so in the Slovenian Democratic Party we have proposed an amendment that in this case all taxpayers who will have to use the tax registers after a new one will be provided free of charge with an electronic device for the issuance of invoices and the free maintenance of hardware and software for this device. In our Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u290	We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 4. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 58. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 58.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 9. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 54. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 54.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 10. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 54. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 54.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 11. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u291	Thank you for your word. The coverage of Slovenia with the internet is not the same throughout the entire area. This is precisely why you have committed in some way to this Article that the debtor must prove the inability to establish an electronic data exchange link by means of a certificate from the Communications Networks Agency. We in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group find this unacceptable, as this imposes additional administrative restrictions on our taxpayers and we have therefore proposed deleting this Article. Of course, we will also support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u292	We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 11. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 54. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 54.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 12. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 59. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 59.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 15. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 33 for them and 50 for them. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 50]] . I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Since the amendments of the SDS Group to Article 17(1) and the amendment of the Alliance Group to the same Article under point 2 are identical, we will vote on them together. We therefore decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors and on the amendment of the Alliance Group of Ambassadors to Article 17. The explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group shall be given by Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenka.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u293	Thank you for your word. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose deleting an article that imposes a fine of €40 for offences if the buyer or recipient of the service does not take over or hold the account immediately after the expenditure from the premises. We believe that, in fact, there is still a lot of confusion around this article, we do not know exactly where this business space is, in which case the buyers can be punished and it seems completely unacceptable that this burden is being passed on to the consumer. We will vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u294	We vote on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the Alliance Group to Article 17. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 35 votes against 46. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 46]] . I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 18. We're voting. There are 86 Members present and 24 votes against 59. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 59]] . I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 19(1). We're voting. There are 86 Members present and 24 votes against 59. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 59]] . I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD to Article 19(2). We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 58 votes against 17. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against 17]] . I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SDS to Article 23. SD, I'm sorry. There was a mistake in the record. So we decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 23. We're voting. There are 83 Members present and 58 votes in favour against 17. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against 17]] . I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the motion for a bill suggested that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it opposes more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 59 votes against 25. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against 25.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Jehovah’s Witnesses, 7 / 15 Seven. 2015, after the final vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments adopted and the articles to which the amendment has been adopted. Amendments to these Articles may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law amending the Law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015 by emergency procedure. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 13. Seven. 2015, which you received on the e-club. Since the amendments of the New Slovenia Group to Article 1 and the SDS Group Amendment to Article 1 to Article 2 are essentially the same, we will vote on them together. If the amendment is adopted, the amendment of the Alliance's Group shall become irrelevant to Article 1(3). The amendments of SDS and New Slovenia's parliamentary groups to Article 1 are substantively linked to the amendment of the same applicants to Article 2. If the amendment to Article 1 is not accepted, the amendment to Article 2 will become irrelevant. We therefore decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 1. Mr Jožef Horvat has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u295	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With these amendments, we propose that the average should also be €525 from July to December in the second half of this year. Although the cost per citizen last year was on average 662 euros, the Community of Slovene municipalities also proposes that the average for this year would be 662 euros. We understand that there is no money at home, so we think it would be good to listen to the congregations to listen to the local self-government defined by the European Charter of Local Self-Government. Colleagues and colleagues received a lot of letters both from the Community of Municipal municipalities, the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia, individual municipalities, municipalities and so on and somehow united themselves in the desire that the average should also be EUR 525 in the second half of this year – what we are proposing. We believe that the government should respect the European Charter of Local Self-Government, should respect the principle of subsidiarity, should respect that practically 70 to 80 % of all public investment in the country flows directly to the municipalities. That the municipalities are the ones who can prepare projects to draw up European funds. And we don't understand why the government and the ruling coalition simply turn their backs on local communities. Before deciding on this amendment, it is worth considering. Members and Members of New Slovenia will support the amendment and thus propose that local communities receive an average of €525 in the second half of this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u296	We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 1. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 49. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Alliance's Group to Article 1(3). The explanation for the vote on behalf of the Alliance's Group shall be mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u297	Thank you very much. The content is actually the same as the one the colleague presented before me. We would like the average for the municipalities to remain the same as it was in the first half of the year, and not only does it shrink in mind and thread, but from 525 first to 500 then to 514 and then to 519. By confirming our proposal, the average would remain the same throughout the year. I agree. If there's no money, there's no money. But I read today that Prime Minister Cerar has promised more money for the army. It may be necessary, but if it's for the military, it has to be for the people first. That is why we can show in this vote that we are dealing with people, because not only the country, but ultimately the congregations are people first.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u298	We therefore decide on the amendment of the Alliance's Group to Article 1(3). We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 48. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendments of the New Slovenia Group to Article 1(1), the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1(2) and the amendment of the Alliance Group to Article 1(3) have not been accepted, the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2(1), the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 2(2) and the amendment of the Alliance Group to Article 2(3) have become irrelevant. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home working body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 52 votes against 6. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 30th item of the agenda, which is the handling of Mandate-Voluntary matters. As no matter has been drawn up by the Mandate-Electorial Commission at the meeting of the National Assembly, I interrupt this item on the agenda. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Company Act under the ordinary procedure. On Friday, 10 July 2015, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, as a proposal for a bill, decided that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, at that meeting, it would hold a third consideration of the draft law. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendments tabled on the e-club. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the two amendments of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Andrej Potočnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u299	Thank you. Otherwise, I expected a colleague to explain her amendments to me. But I'll respond because we got them in writing. As regards the first amendment to Article 2, you have in fact written down that you want to make the abuse of the establishment more difficult. We have found that there has been little inconsistencies in this amendment, which facilitates the case, if we have five shareholders, where we have 20% of the ownership, then they will not be subject to the limits of one company for three months. However, as far as the second amendment is concerned, we have already discussed at the committee and on Friday at the plenary session itself, in the SMC, we believe that, with this half-time of employment, the purpose of the entrepreneur is sufficient to report to the employee that he has a lot of administrative obstacles, and in fact he must also have for half-time, has enough costs to demonstrate that his purpose is fair and not unfair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u300	Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u301	Thank you for your word, chairman. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we would like to make it further difficult, with the proposed amendment, to set up and chain businesses for those who already have several businesses open today. I'm talking about companies that are inactive and you're not really covering them with this proposal. You are borrowing companies that were established three months ago and are inactive. But those that actually already exist and we know that we have practices where someone has already opened up more than, I don't know, I will say, five, ten companies, in none of these companies has employees, companies are inactive, they're designed to be stocked up, and you don't have them, and that's why we wanted them to. In the second part, it is correct, according to our assessment, to take into account that, not half-time, one person is employed, but full-time for a period of one month. We will support our amendment in the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u302	Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the first amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 53. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 54. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 54.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done deciding on the amendments. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted at the meeting of the home working body or the National Assembly, the proposal for a law would not be harmonised. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 83 votes against none. [[The vote was 83.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm adjourning the 10th meeting of the National Assembly, which we'll resume tomorrow at 9 a.m.
