ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 5th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat, Mrs Klaudija Markež by 2 p.m., Mrs Andreja Potočnik, Mr Marijan Pojbič, mag. Branko Grimes, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, mag. Anže Logar, Mr Ivan Prelog, Mr Igor Zorčič, Mr Branislav Rajić and Mr Jan Mahnic until 12.30. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, the representative of the State Council to the 18th item of the agenda, mag. Ms Irena Praček, Director of the Agency for Energy, on the 30th item of the agenda and representatives of the Government to all agenda items. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 5th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 20 February 2015, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of an item from the agenda or proposals for an extension of the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Everything all right? We can vote. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 5th meeting of the assembly has been set. We're moving to 32. At the end of the day, these are mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the Conclusion on the termination of the mandate of Mr Srečko Blažić. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 202 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I inform you that Member Srečko Blažič informed me in writing on 5 February 2015 that he has resigned from his duties as Member. I note that Mr Srečko Blažić, in accordance with the sixth indent of the first paragraph and the second paragraph of Article 9 of the Law on Members and the third paragraph of Article 202 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, terminates the term of office of a Member with effect from 2 March 2015. I will immediately inform the National Election Commission and ask it to inform the assembly, which candidate or candidate will become a Member or Member for the remainder of the term of office, in accordance with Article 17 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, instead of a Member for the remainder of the term of office, who has terminated his term of office. On the basis of a notification from the State Election Commission, the Council of Ministers will draw up a report and propose approval of the mandate and report to the assembly on its findings. Allow me, on behalf of all of us, to thank my respected colleague very much for my work so far and to wish him success in the future. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to one. At the time of the day, this is for questions from the Members of Parliament and the Members of Parliament. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received in writing 52 questions from the Member States within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question to the Member of Parliament will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member or Member shall have three minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall respond to questions within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. Mr Karl Viktor Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs, apologized for this point today. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar. The first question will be raised by Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to your colleagues, especially you, Prime Minister of the Government. Let me, of course, begin immediately at the beginning with this last topic that we discussed last week, which is the appointment of the SDH Supervisory Board. You know that during the previous term of office, we have amended the law mainly with one clear and simple objective of preventing the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board from being involved in politics at the same time. With this, the politicians would sort of snap their fingers off so we wouldn't have much left. To this end, we have, in fact, set out very clearly in Article 39 of the Law, where we are talking about the composition of the Supervisory Council, what the conditions are and what this Member must fulfil in order for this to be possible. I'm not going to list them because you probably know them very well. However, something else happened that was less likely to happen in the first appointment or appointment of members of the Governing Council. This is because in the next article we have also very clearly defined who is preparing this procedure. So it's a professional committee that's making a proposal. And now the first one happened, the first security guard was exhausted, with which we wanted to prevent political appointments. This is that if the Minister changes the proposal of the proposed candidates of the Commission, then this explanation must be very clear and it is more than clear that there will be a discussion in the National Assembly on this. However, I am afraid, given the predictions made by your coalition parties and partners, that they are not really satisfied with these names, and today I do not even want to dispute these names so that we can understand each other. This is not my basic question – because they are already hot. I'm more interested in the following: How and how can you, with your integrity and respect for this law, ensure that there will be no political appointments within this coalition stew and competition, especially when there is too much talk about formula 3+1+1? How and how you can guarantee this is my basic question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u3	The word is given by the Prime Minister, Dr. Miro Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you to the honourable Member for the question. How will we ensure that legal criteria are respected? Simply so that we respect the law as we respect it. All you're talking about are allegations from the media or probably those who report these allegations to the media. I assure you, however, that the selection process for the SDH Supervisory Board is in full compliance with the law, as you know, 47 candidates have applied for the public tender. The competent commission, the expert commission that you formed in your mandate, remained the same, unchanged, did not want to interfere with it, examined all these applications, excluded those that were not formally appropriate, and considered formally appropriate and reached a narrow range of candidates according to different criteria. This is a message to the Minister of Finance, who is also legally competent to draw up a proposal for the Government on the basis of this part of the Commission. As you know, at the end of the Government's proposal, it will give consent to the National Assembly, so that you will be all present Members, in particular this honourable assembly, involved in this process. So it is absolutely impossible that even if someone wanted to manipulate you in any way, the matter would get around you. However, nothing is manipulated and I can assure you that in these days, the Minister will propose to the Government, on the basis of a thorough examination of these candidate criteria, those most appropriate for this. However, I would warn you that this procedure is extremely demanding, because when five candidates are to be selected, we must have in mind, above all, and this is the fundamental guide of the government, the coalition partners, especially the ministers of the following. First of all, they are people with integrity, which has already been pointed out by the expert commission and is a particularly attentive minister, and so much more so by the Government and probably by the National Assembly. Secondly, these are candidates with expertise, experience and competence in their fields. Here I would like to say to the public that in this supervisory board SDH there should be five candidates with financial expertise, an expert in corporate governance, an expert in the management of liabilities and assets and an expert in corporate law. So there are very many criteria here, in addition to these two general criteria, namely competence, knowledge and integrity on the other hand, which the Government will certainly take into account in general. As it is said, we now expect the Minister of Finance of the Government to present a final set of possible candidates for this week's government meeting today, tomorrow, the following morning. Let me answer even more in general. Such an approach will be taken by the government in all other appointments as it has already had. Rather, it is not a political bargaining, but simply a search for people who are in line with the tasks that are capable of which there is no doubt that they will make a biased decision as members of certain political, economic and other lobbying networks. This will certainly be followed by the government, for this is what we must all take together if we are to renew this Slovenia politically, economically and otherwise. With a different political culture, as such, it will simply not work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u5	Mr Jani Möderndorfer makes a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u6	Thank you very much, President, for your first part. However, let me just point out that, I certainly did not question the legality of the procedure. If I had, I would have made that very clear. We will only be able to discuss this when the whole process is completed if this is necessary. My purpose was mainly because you know, I agree with you when you claim that you will respect the law and that everything will go according to the procedure, but we both know that temptation is one big awkward thing that always happens before the end, before the decision is made. You also know that, as you say, the National Assembly will decide on this issue. However, the National Assembly will not be able to decide on individual candidates, but only on the whole package, whether to give consent or not. And you also know that the majority is not the opposition, but always the coalition, which means that if you agree in a coalition, then it is completely irrelevant what the National Assembly will actually decide. Therefore, I think it is very important that this basic first procedure, which is being carried out correctly, is carried out. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the part that you yourself probably know about. A study was made that corporate governance is bad in those societies where people are put on the side of politics. The European Commission has also warned our government that if we have a problem somewhere, we do not have so many imbalances, but we have the most problems with corporate governance, which is the worst. Will you resist temptations when coalition partners propose their names to you because as a government you have the opportunity to change these names?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u7	I give the floor to the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u8	Thank you. I am pleased that we agree, and I believe that we all agree that the procedure must lead to such a choice, that there will be no shadow of doubt or any doubt as to whether the chosen are suitable, competent candidates. It is a matter concerning the Slovenian state, the management of its assets and it is too important that the coalition here could somehow force by voting the choice of some candidates apart from, I don't know, any general doubt in them. Be assured that the coalition will scrutinize these candidates thoroughly according to legal criteria. As far as temptation is concerned, I personally have no such temptations. If I see them anywhere, and I see many of them, I try to eliminate them as much as I can, I am fighting them, I am trying to reduce them, but I certainly do not allow them to penetrate into such procedures, which, as you said correctly, must lead to a politically sound and, above all, professionally sound choice. In the end, the decision is political, the government, the coalition assumes political responsibility for who it appoints, and these individuals take enormous responsibility for how they manage or control the management of state property. That's why I repeat, we're here in the government to act responsibly. Also these various rumors about some formulae 3 +1 +1, this occurs in all political discussions. It is normal for each political power, party, coalition to propose some of its candidates, as they are proposed in elections and otherwise, and for the Government to choose the right candidates impartially on professional and legal criteria. And I assure you that such a choice will take place, but, of course, as I said, the National Assembly will also have every opportunity to look at the selected candidates. But I would warn you, that is not to be ignored, but together we are all limited to the number of candidates applied for. Only those who applied and some did not meet the formal conditions. In any event, both the Government and the National Assembly are faced with a limited choice, which is not only dependent on the government, but also on whether someone who may be competent wanted to apply or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u9	The second question is raised by Mr Jože Tanko to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! Article 4 of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption sets out the following definition: "Integrity is expected to work by individuals and organisations in preventing and eliminating risks in order to ensure that authority, function, authority or other decision-making powers are used in contravention of law, legally permissible objectives or ethical codes." The provision is very clear and clear. Last May, the Court of Auditors issued a report on the supervision of fourteen budgetary users and the audit showed that the functioning of the Klemenčič Chamber of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption was far from the worst of all auditors. The Court of Auditors found that Klemenczyk's Senate had violated eight laws. Let me list them: Law on the Public Sector Salaries System, Law on Public Servants, Law on Labour Relations, Law on Public Finance, Law on Real Property of the State, Landscapes and Municipalities, Law on Budget Implementation for 2011 and 2012, Law on Public Procurement and Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, this is the law under which this Commission is also established. A few months after the report was published, you proposed to Klemenčič as Minister of Justice, which means that you have knowingly undermined all pre-election declarations relating to the rule of law, integrity and respect for institutions. You obviously don't respect the Court of Auditors. On Thursday, the Supreme Court, in the Janez Janša appeal against the defeat of Klemenčič's Senate to prevent corruption, also found illegal interference with human constitutional rights under article 22 of the Constitution and the defeat of the abolition. I'm asking you: Do you think Minister Goran Klemenčič has integrity as Prime Minister of your government? Did he have this integrity at all since you proposed him as Minister of Justice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u11	The President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u12	Thank you very much. First of all, I answer to the honourable Member that, of course, Mr Goran Klemenčič had, at the time that I proposed him as Minister, in my deep conviction, all the integrity necessary to carry out this function, and I also believe today, even after all that you have mentioned, that he still has this integrity, that he can fully and responsibly serve as Minister of Justice. In fact, I will not answer your first part of the question directly, because you have already asked me this question here in this room a long time ago and have received an answer to it. Let me just answer in general. At that time, and this is true, this proves that the violations of the legislation you are reading by the KPK, i.e. the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption under the leadership of Mr Klemenčič, are the findings that have been recognised as regards the functioning of the Commission's composition before Mr Klemenčič began to lead and become a member of it. This has been demonstrated several times with documents, with evidence, with facts. In fact, it was the KPK commission under the leadership of Mr Klemenčič that immediately, when it took office, responded to the Court of Auditors' report, that was no disrespect for this court, even though it is not, on my part, we all respect it, and then under the guidance of Mr Klemenčič KPK gave the appropriate answers and advocated the elimination of all illegal or harmful or inappropriate practices from the previous period. So this is just proof that Mr Klemenčič is still in a position to adhere to the principles and spirit of the rule of law and the principles of integrity that he has embodyed in this committee. Indeed, the recent ruling of the Supreme Court annuls the KPK report concerning the work concerning Mr Janez Janša, Member of the National Assembly. However, after examining this matter, I believe that this is absolutely not a decision which would in fact cast any shadow of doubt on Mr Klemenčič as the former President of the KPK, since the decision of the KPK was made at that time with all possible care after months of examination and use of all possible methods. Mr Janša, and this is a public document, had every opportunity to make a statement in this process of all the facts that were burdensome to him at that time. In fact, the Supreme Court has corrected this report only because of procedural errors, which must certainly be respected, but it must be said that the content of this report itself has not been challenged or challenged in some way. As it is said, only a procedural decision has been taken by the Supreme Court. Before that, however, six Chambers of various courts, higher courts, two administrative courts confirmed what the PKK had adopted. So it was not only a misapplication of law by the KPC in a very legally inaccurate legislative framework at the time and with great effort to apply this framework as correctly as possible, but it was also thought by as many as six Chambers of the Administrative Court, i.e. a higher court by rank. And as you know, a lower-rate judge or a lower-level court, or an official, does not resign, nor does it request, nor does it make sense, nor is such a decision embedded in the system if the higher court annuls a decision. This is the normal part that happens in justice, in administration. Similarly, the Constitutional Court shall not derogate if the European Court annuls a decision. Similarly, a judge in a higher or lower court shall not give up if the Supreme Court annuls a decision. This is a legal process that we all understand, and I am sure that I am very deeply concerned that Mr Goran Klemenčič, together with the Senate in which he participated, decided, in accordance with the best possible conscience, with all the use of the legal framework, the professional use, as it is. As it is said, this has also been recognised as correct by several Chambers until the Supreme Court has now taken a different decision. Therefore, I see no reason to doubt his work and his ability to continue to perform this function with integrity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u13	Mr Jože Tanko has the floor to make a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Mr President, this argument makes you ridiculous. The Supreme Court overturned the KPC's victory precisely because the party to the proceedings had no possibility of objecting to the findings of the report. It is precisely because of the violation of this right referred to in Article 22 of the Constitution. However, as far as Mr Klemenčič is concerned, let me say that he was also under control of the property situation, and this process began in February 2013. It was found in this procedure that he did not report his wife's company, and it was found that he could not explain why he did not have the house in the GURS record. He could not explain that he had invested between EUR 50 and EUR 60 000 in the completion of the house and had not provided the invoices. He did not respond to the apparent fact that the loans were substantially cheaper than they were then available on the market. That he protested leaving the meeting of the Mandate-Volution Commission. In short, it's not just some statement that you could interpret, but it's facts. And these facts are verifiable, they are verifiable in the magnetograms available in the National Assembly, and they are also verified by statements. That's why I'm asking you: Are these practices, which I have previously described as violations of the laws and also as regards control of property status, in line with the recommendations of GRECA, ethical and reflect the integrity of the official? Do you, for example, who consciously proposed to the ministerial office a person for whom integrity was found to have been violated just before appointment? Does it have the integrity of the government if there are such non-creditable persons in it?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u15	Procedurally, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u16	Honorable President and Assembly! I apologize for even having to come to the phone because in principle, I get nervous about procedural input while asking questions. But what Comrade Joza Tanko has now learned is an abuse of the rules of procedure. And now I'm gonna tell you why. And you as president should warn him. He has misused data, personal data from the closed session of the MVK and publishes them publicly at the plenary session. And that seems the worst form of abuse to me, so please, if you're immersing. The Minister can't even defend himself at this point, and the Prime Minister doesn't even know that this is from a closed session. And this is where we need to take strong action. If we're all going to do this now, then let's not close the session at all. It's a creamy thing to call it if we keep it that way. This is not right, fellow Member, but I am the opposition. But that's not right, what you've done now!
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u17	I have to answer the procedure first. The second part of the question was corrected, the first part of the question relating to if it is true, that is, if it is held in an internal session, i.e. at a closed meeting, data from closed sessions, and if they have come to the public, in this case I am conditionally giving a warning to Mr Jožet Tank. Provided this first part holds because I couldn't verify this first part at this point. I now give the floor to Mr President of the Government, Dr Mir Cerar, for an additional answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u18	Thank you very much. I'll answer for a moment. I'm not going to answer that insulting remark you made at the outset, because I don't think it belongs to Parliament that we're talking at such a low level. As far as the facts are concerned. The ones I know about Mr Klemenčič do not hold, as you mentioned. I think if you want to start a new investigation here, I suggest you come with some materials, and we'll look into it. What I have in mind and beyond, without any tangible evidence, has proven to have led to the fact that these so-called evidences, including those from your side, have proved to be unrealistic. I trust Mr Klemenčič here and the facts that I know about what you said, and they certainly do not question his work and his integrity. But if you don't mind, I'd be a little funny. Let me find out that I am pleased that at once your client, and this is very grateful, recognises all authority of the so-called so-called so-called "criminality," so to speak to the Supreme Court. I think it is right that you have finally realized that decisions must be respected and that you can then make appropriate references to them. So I hope that you will show this attitude back and forth with regard to all decisions of the Supreme Court and all other judicial decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u19	Mr Jože Tanko has the floor for a procedural proposal for a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say that I am not satisfied with the flawed and incorrect replies of the President of the Government to the question raised or the supplementary question, because he has not answered any of these questions that I have asked. None at all. Secondly, Mr President, it is also unusual to give a warning to the stock, i.e. to the advance, without making sure of what the facts are. Part of Mr Klemenčič's records and hearings before the Mandate-voluntary Commission, when he cooled down on this control of his assets, is public, the level of confidentiality has been withdrawn. More or less of this matter, Mr Möderndorfer, which I have quoted, is made of magnetograms which are publicly available on the website of the National Assembly. The fact is that Mr Klemenčič violated eight laws to obtain a negative opinion from the Court of Auditors is an irrefutable fact. That, because of the poor work, one of the ministers was also dismissed, but it was a regulation and not a law, Mr Cerar, it was Mr Erjavac, because something with garbage cans had not been arranged in time, and a proposal for discharge from the post of office was also made. And that's what happened. I have to say, when you put yourself in line to defend the bad behavior of an official, you actually discredited the government anyway, but also the National Assembly and politics at all. You are now introducing in legislation some ethical standards, recommendations by GRECA. Your official, who forces it, does the opposite and has worked contrary to the recommendations of GRECA and ethical standards. He was doing this on his own at the top of the line. And this was determined by the Court of Auditors and also by the Supreme Court. More or less the Court of Auditors' audit referred to, Mr Cerar, read again, in 2011 and 2012, when Mr Klemenčič was the leader of this KPK for some time. He took over in time before that. This audit was about, and it is obvious that you have put yourself in the role of a judge, you have clearly determined that Mr Klemenčič is the victim of the KPK report, which he wrote himself, and you attribute to him some of the saintly qualities. He doesn't have any. He violated the laws and did not respect the recommendations of GRECA and no other ethical standards and standards. I demand that we also hold a debate on this response from the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u21	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u22	I simply have to deny the claim, given the procedure itself, as my colleague Tanka mentioned, that he was using data which is publicly available. The fact is that the procedure for determining the assets of current Minister Klemenčič, then President of KPK, has never been completed. You're doing exactly what you're reading to others. Therefore, Comrade Tanko, let us give you the credibility of this House and at least give us what we are told is conscience and commission to do things lawfully. You do these things illegally. You're in violation of the rules of procedure. If you want to determine the property status, restart it via the MVK. I don't know how you're gonna do this again. More importantly, the information you obtained from the MVK does not yet know this people, because the process is not finished, has been obtained illegally. And you know it. So, President, you have no bad news, you've done nothing in stock to complete the business.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u23	I'll answer that further procedurally. This time it was a procedural abuse. I'm sorry. So I must warn my colleague, Jani Möderndorfer, this time you, too, for the abuse of procedural debate, which is not acceptable. As for the proposal for a debate itself, Mr Jože Tanko, the National Assembly will decide on it tomorrow, 3 March 2015, in the framework of the votes. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, I think it is inappropriate for someone to present to his fellow Member a violation of the Rules of Procedure without stating a single indent of this Rules of Procedure. He has not indicated a single indent and refers to my breach of the Rules of Procedure. I've got a slow amount of slander and mud and this biased treatment. Because it does not seem right, it is not fair to me, not to other Members. If anyone speaks of an infringement of the Rules of Procedure, state the provision and give a measure or a reminder or, on the basis of that, you may find out anything. It is true that the control procedure against Mr Klemenčič has not been completed. It was not concluded because Melita Župevc, then president of the Mandate-Election Commission, refused to complete it. And not even the coalition of the day. And also Mr Klemenčič escaped several times from the commission, fell off the door and left. It needs to be objective. And I hope that Mr Horvat, who is now the President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, will conclude this procedure, which has remained unfinished, as well as the annual reports that the current President of the KPK has not been able to write, even in accordance with the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. That the Service of the National Legislative Assembly had brought the matter back to him, in addition. The recovery report had to work so that we could even address its annual reports. It's so embarrassing to talk about me when I ask this question without telling all the facts, it's inappropriate and unworthy. Therefore, I propose, Mr President, before you give any warning or other measure, first make sure of what is public and closed in the archives of the National Assembly. And it is not here to sit on some pranks that Mr Möderndorfer serves, which he does not even know about the three-quarters of things that are written in the rules of procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u25	I will remain in these decisions, which I have already taken on this point. Both received a warning, for various reasons and in different ways. We'll continue the session. Third, he asks the question of Luke Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. My question to the Prime Minister is about the construction of a second track. There's been a lot of news in the media area lately. On the one hand, for example, it states that the Government should try to obtain funds to build this second track from Juncker's investment plan. On the other hand, there is talk of a public-private partnership. Finally, on 23 February, in the minutes of the letter to the Government, we read that the realization of the construction of a second track with public funding resources due to the urgent other investment projects to be carried out in parallel during the financial perspective period 2014-2020 in terms of macro-fiscal consolidation is not feasible, and you urge the Ministry of Finance to try to propose possible solutions to the public-private investment partnership in the second indent as soon as possible. In short, somewhere between options A, B and C. If A were, that construction would be from public funds, B would be from public-private resources, and C would be from public-private resources, that construction would not be at all, we would, after some general impression right now between points B and C. So whether we get a private investor, the construction will, if we don't, be out. The columnists point out, however, that this search for a private investor is somewhat illusory because, even if we offer a third pier concession to an investor at the same time, this investment should only be repaid after some hundred years. That's how he last calculated Joze P. Damian. To clarify the Government's current position on this issue, my questions would be as follows: Will the construction of the second track be? What investors are you talking to? How do you comment, or how do you plan to avoid this dilemma, which is being raised by economists, that investment in such infrastructure is unprofitable for the private? I would like to ask you if you can answer as much as possible whether the construction will, under what conditions you are talking to investors and how to make this investment profitable for the private. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u27	The President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u28	Dear Member, thank you for asking. Indeed, at a letter meeting ten days ago, the Government adopted several decisions relating to the implementation of the construction of the new Divač-Koper railway connection with state-of-the-art public financial resources, taking into account the need for other necessary investment projects to be carried out in parallel to transport, namely road and rail infrastructure, for the financial perspective period 2014-2020. Here's what I'd say. It is undeniable that the establishment of this European standard in the Mediterranean and Baltic Adriatic railway corridor is in line with the draft transport development strategy in the Republic of Slovenia. That is why the Government has also confirmed this project as some implementation of the Divača-Koper railway link, which is of course important for the development of transport and all logistics activities in this and wider area, and I stress that this is only part of the Government's idea to modernise railway corridors, as Slovenia needs to build and rebuild these railway corridors. This is a matter of strategic interest, of environmental reasons and of economic and other reasons that will benefit us. The government has pointed out that one of the objectives is to find a private investor – a partner, and the competent ministries have been empowered to examine this. The Ministry of Infrastructure is currently preparing the first phase of the public-private partnership process, and the form of the implementation of the second-track project, i.e. Divaca-Koper, cannot yet be announced, since a public call to promoters to submit applications for interest in the implementation of the public-private partnership has not yet been made. At a given time, it is also not possible to predict whether a single or possibly more private investors will respond to the call for applications. A private investor – a partner can condition its financial contribution in different ways or combinations thereof. These combinations are different, we've studied some of them. Nevertheless, the country is proposing a number of different models for which it will check its interest in potential partners. Let me stress here, all these writings in the media, these assumptions that are emerging about the sale of Luke Koper, about this or that customer, etc., this is all largely fictional, but the fruit of some imagination. Because the fact is that we have not yet adopted, as you know, strategies for managing state investments. And this strategy is crucial. It will also be presented in a public debate within a few weeks and also to opposition, even earlier coalition parties, namely the National Assembly. We will talk about this at the general political level, including taking into account the expertise, civil society and more. And once we have identified the importance and status of Luke Koper in this State Investment Management Strategy, not to mention Slovenian Railways, Transport, etc., from there it will be possible to fully evaluate the potential of this public-private partnership and the various forms in which you have been involved. Therefore, of course, there is no point that we are now thinking about some elementary sale of Luke Koper or anything like that. We're going to go into this project carefully. Once we know that we have all the expertise and other bases found out, then we'll go after him and not before. Of course, there's something else I'd like to mention. Luka Koper, d. d., is organised as an economic company as a share company in which the majority share is owned by the Republic of Slovenia, but is now more than 30% of the 14 million shares owned by private owners. If possible, this is one of the options considered as a possible option when private capital enters Luka Koper, so this would not necessarily mean a minor impact of the state. In the event of a potential entry of a strategic partner, it is necessary to know that this port provides port and logistics services and manages port infrastructure under the 2008 concession contract, which expires in 2043. This means that the shell and the railway infrastructure will in any case remain the property of the Republic of Slovenia. We cannot therefore say that the country will sell its infrastructure, since neither Luka Koper nor Slovenian Railway, freight transport which could be interesting to private investors, are already owners of port or rail infrastructure. Maybe there's something else going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u29	Luke Moon has the word for the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. If I understand correctly, it is not clear whether construction will be possible, depending on whether you succeed, the Government, with some private partner, to agree on conditions for investment that would both be common. You have already mentioned that you are ready to give up your shares in Luka Koper and Slovenian Railways. This is where I want to know: How far is the government willing to go? So, what kind of shares are we talking about? Is that 50%, is that 75% or is that less? I'm interested in some sort of manoeuvre that the government has set up before negotiations with private partners. In this light, I'm also interested in: When can we expect the strategy you mentioned about managing state investments? How will Luka Koper and Slovenian Railways be classified in this strategy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u31	The President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, has the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u32	Thank you very much. We're still studying all this stuff in the government. The Ministry of Infrastructure is particularly active, but also in cooperation with other ministries. It is very important, as you have correctly determined how Luka Koper, as well as a number of other companies, will be defined in the strategy we are preparing. This strategy should be considered, if only possible, I think that it will be in the government this week, then political parties in Parliament should also be informed and then should go to a public debate. Thus, the process of this treatment will be completed within a very short period of time; it is basically already prepared in the draft. Here I say that it is already valid that if an undertaking is a strategic investment, it means that it has 50% plus one vote in its own country. For the time being, I must say that the Government has not yet made any decisions on Luke Koper concerning the Slovenian Railways, because this would be absolutely premature. This is primarily about setting some general criteria and criteria and then classifying all investments in state-owned property on the basis of these criteria, taking into account this and taking into account a number of possible options, including the interest of public-private partnership entities, we also decide on the railway modernisation project, including the second track. I'd say so. I really want this country to finally start breathing proactively again, to build, like I said, to create something, so that we don't just wonder what's not possible, where the obstacles are, what we don't want. Let us ask ourselves what we want, what is important, that people get a job, that Slovenia, as a strategically placed country in Europe, will prove itself in this position, so that it is productive for us and for neighbouring countries, that we get some strategic importance, that we can also use our economy, so that we can increase our jobs to become a logistics, economic and otherwise more recognizable centre in Europe. And you're right, we're also going to study Juncker's package, a lot of things, just to find the most appropriate model, to finally do something again in this Slovenia, not just find out what can't be done all the time. And I will be very committed to this, but I stress, we will not go into this project until it is fully clear that the financial structure is sustainable and that the matter is economically and also broader, that is to say social as a result and broader, meaningful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u33	Text for a procedural proposal for a discussion? No, no, no. I'm sorry. I got it all wrong. We move on to the fourth question to the Prime Minister of the Government, which will be posed by the Magi. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. The President of the National Assembly, the distinguished President of the Government, the Council of Ministers, Members and Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting! After several years of economic crisis, which reached its peak in 2013, the Republic of Slovenia seems to have survived the most difficult period of crisis and is on the path of economic recovery. This is also confirmed by the latest economic indicators of domestic and international institutions. In the context of an in-depth review of the economic situation of EU Member States, the European Commission concluded last week that the Republic of Slovenia is no longer facing excessive macroeconomic imbalances. The International Monetary Fund has already improved its initial positive outlook for gross domestic product growth this year. The return on the maturity of Slovenian ten-year bonds is steadily decreasing and is currently at the lowest level since the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into the euro area. Exports are increasing, public investments financed by the EU. Perhaps the most important indicator, especially since it directly affects the quality of life of our people, is the number of unemployed people falling at the annual level. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! Your government has adopted a series of measures that have contributed significantly to the stabilisation of political space and economic recovery. Nevertheless, there are quite a few risks to our economy, so I ask you: What are those measures and projects with which the government will work towards the sustainable growth of gross domestic product and the further economic recovery of the Republic of Slovenia? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u35	The President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u36	I also thank the honourable Member very much for this question. It is true, as you have rightly stated, that we have received as many encouraging results and trends as possible in recent times, which is also due to the activities of this government. I would say that we can really look forward to the fact that the European Commission has identified us as successful and that, as the only country in this period, it has actually assessed us as a country that no longer faces excessive macroeconomic imbalances in the circle of countries that have faced it. As you know, economic growth has been surprisingly high over the past year, given the forecast. And let me point out that the three largest credit rating agencies have placed us in a round of low-risk countries and stable prospects during this period. As you yourself said, the required return on Slovenian ten-year bonds is steadily lower and fell even to 1.16% in the previous week, the new lowest since Slovenia's entry into the euro area. Market conditions are also improving. According to the previous year, the number of active population is higher by good 4% and more than that could be added. This, as you yourself have somehow indicated, cannot put us to sleep. On the contrary. We are still in a very fragile period where any wrong step, any breakdown of some stability, redirecting the trend means immediately falling back into negative indicators. Therefore, let me first say that the efforts already made for the two budget rebalancing, in particular for the 2015 budget rebalancing, which was a very demanding project, as you know, because you have been actively involved in it, have been development-oriented. In view of this 2015 budget, we have repeatedly highlighted and foreseen the structure of the budget by making it highly investmentable, as compared to 2014 spending, the purchase and construction of core funds is increasing by 41% and investment transfers by 20%. It is said that the country has already made a contribution in this budgetary sense to the promotion of economic growth. Among the most fundamental guarantees for economic growth, those that are indispensable are political stability, then respect for the rule of law, because only respect for the rule of law allows businesses to operate smoothly, and in this context in particular that we will take the strongest possible step in the future, to maintain a stable and predictable business environment and to relieve them of all these administrative obstacles that have accumulated enormously in Slovenia. And the first actions in this area are already being prepared. Let me add that we will advocate attracting as many foreign direct investment as possible to Slovenia, in part through privatisation, in part with various other forms of investment, and in particular by making our business environment more friendly. There are big challenges here, and we're taking them seriously. In cross-cutting coordination, a programme to promote internationalisation for the period 2015-2020 will focus mainly on the development, implementation and renovation of business models, support business and regional partnerships to strengthen cooperation in regional and global value chains, establish and operate a "one-stop shop" system for domestic exporters and foreign investors, and, of course, to find new international market opportunities. Already in this short period, since the new government has been in operation, we have also focused on further improvements in the area of European funding. Here you know that we have made remarkable progress on the scale in a short time. The government will make absolutely every effort to take advantage of all the opportunities offered by this drawing on European funds, so that we can also achieve an incentive for economic growth. We will also take advantage of all the possibilities offered by the so-called.i. Junker's package. In this context, as you know, we have committed ourselves to various infrastructure projects, to entrepreneurial projects, as well as to some of those that have multiple effects in a different way, not least in the areas of culture, digitisation and so on, because we know that these activities are also more broadly linked to the economy. And I'd say that for a little while. Special attention will also be paid to areas with high unemployment. Now is the time for this government to also focus on how a person, a Slovenian citizen, will soon feel these positive trends. And that is now our fundamental concern. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u37	I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we turn to the questions raised at the 4th meeting of the National Assembly. The Minister of Finance, Dr Dušan Maramor, will answer Dr. Franc Križanič's question regarding the level of the obligation to pay interest on bonds issued and the recapitalisation of the Company for the Management of Bank Claims.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u38	Thank you so much for asking. Your Honor! After a longer explanation, the question is very concrete: how much of the public funds will be allocated in 2015 to pay interest on the bonds and recapitalisation of the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. Allow me to answer as requested, including with numbers. According to the DUTB, in 2013 and 2014, the Bank's Claims Management Company has independently issued 4 series of bonds totalling EUR 1.56 billion for which the Republic of Slovenia guarantee is granted. In December 2013, DUT01 issued EUR 505,8 million, the capital of which comes to an end of 15. 12. In 2015, interest due in December 2014 was paid by DUTB, amounting to 18.7m euros. It also issued a DUT02 bond of EUR 505,8 million in December 2013 with a fixed interest rate of 4,5 %. Interest due in December 2014 was paid by DUTB, amounting to 22.4m euros. Main west 15. 12. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day In October 2014, she issued a DUT03 bond of €424,6 million, the capital of the west at the end, i.e. 15. 12. 2017. The interest due in December 2014 was paid by DUTB, amounting to EUR 1 million. The last one falls into payment of 15. 12. 2017, when the capital falls. In December 2014, she issued a DUT04 bond of EUR 127 million, the capital of which is set at 15. 12. 2017. The first interest on this series will thus fall to 15. 6. 2015 and the last at the time of payment of principal 15. 12. 2017. So much information about what she's given and how much she's already paid. In 2014, DUTB paid EUR 42.1 million in interest on the first three series of bonds. In 2015, interest will pay €49.8 million and €505.8 million for the principal, as the capital of the first DUT01 bond will fall. The country in the 2015 budget does not have the resources planned to cover the DUTB obligations, but has a planned inflow of EUR 19.3 million in fees under the commission for the issued guarantees paid by DUTB to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The fee shall be charged three months and the basis for the calculation of the commission shall be that of the total nominal value of the bonds issued. Together, the Republic of Slovenia will receive €52.9 million from the DUTB commission, of which €14.1 million was received last year in 2014. No recapitalisation of DUTB was planned in the budget in 2015.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u39	The Minister of Finance, Dr Dušan Maramor, will answer Marijan Pojbič's question regarding the problem of migrant workers, and I am informing you that Mr Karl Viktor Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs, is rightly absent today.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u40	Thank you very much. I have already answered such a question twice and also Minister Erjavec. I will focus only on my part, that is to say the part that relates directly to the Ministry of Finance. In the last year, the Ministry of Finance has been actively looking for solutions to the problem of cross-border labour migrants working in Austria due to high income payments in Slovenia. In doing so, it was also necessary to take into account the provision of the Constitutional Court, which found in its decision that cross-border labour migrants are in substantially equal situations as other taxpayers for income payments and that the fact that they are employed in another country does not show reasonable and genuine reasons for the privileged tax situation of cross-border labour migrants. The Ministry of Finance has prepared a proposal for a law amending the Income Act. The proposal contained a solution to the problem of residents who gain income from a working relationship with a job outside Slovenia with a foreign employer. This category also includes cross-border labour migrants, with two solutions proposed: increasing the recognised amount of food costs during work as a permanent measure and reducing the annual tax base from foreign labour income as a temporary measure for 2014 and 2015. In view of the content of the Constitutional Court decision, the assessment of the coalition was that it was crucial to ensure equal treatment of those who achieved the income from employment in Slovenia and those who achieved it abroad, so the Ministry of Finance withdrew from further work in this area. The fact is that these taxpayers are in the same tax situation as individuals who achieve income from employment in Slovenia. It is also ensured that double taxation is abolished as the tax paid abroad is deducted from the tax liability in Slovenia. The Ministry of Finance is therefore currently not directing its efforts to find solutions to the specific treatment of residents who are employed in other countries, but we are monitoring the work of the European Commission in this area and will respond appropriately to any recommendations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u41	He will now be Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Magi Food. Dejan Jedhan answered the question of mag. Branislav Rajić related to the planned bypass in Maribor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u42	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! Thank you, too, Mr President, for the question. I'd like to say the following. The Ministry, which is the competent holder of the land regulation for agricultural land, shall, in the process of preparing the VAT, address all the applications received and thus will also be considered in the future, of course from the agricultural land protection point of view. In a specific case, the Ministry identified applications that were more acceptable from the agricultural land view, while others were, of course, excluded. It is important to say that, in practice, there are always roles, not those which are characteristic of the agricultural land protection position, but of certain other interests. The last review was carried out by the Ministry in 2014. There were two options on the table at the time. Option 1, which has been modified, is such that it interferes with the poor 25 hectares of agricultural land and at the same time separates the agricultural complex and variant 2, which is shorter. Option 2 is, however, characterised by the fact that, although it is not so written, in our view, at least 10 hectares of agricultural land are protected and at least part of the agricultural complex remains as a whole. It is true, however, that Option 2 was again marked as less appropriate for the reasons that are urbanist. The Ministry will also address all applications in the future. If there is no unification, this is a typical example of what needs to be done. It is necessary to decide which public interest is more important or whether the public interest in the protection of the missing agricultural land or the public interest in which other areas are concerned. However, this must be addressed by a special government body. The Ministry has already given the initiative to the Government and also to the President to form such a government body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u43	We are moving on to questions from Members of Parliament and Members in the first round. The first one will ask the question of Dr. Franc Trček Minister of Environment and Space Mrs. Ireni Majcen, Minister of Economic Development and Technology Mr. Zdravek Počvalšku and Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food Mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, chairman. You may be a little bit surprised, but it's a subject that covers at least the three resources you listed. In Petišovci, the production of natural gas by hydraulic crushing is being prepared. It is a technology used in clay shale or sandstone for the so-called non-conventional production of natural gas stocks. Very simple to say, under high pressure of water injections, added chemicals and mechanical substances, this causes the cracking of rocks, the formation of cracks in which the gas is caught, which is then exhausted. The consequences are groundwater and drinking water pollution with toxic substances, environmental degradation and earthquake suns when hydraulic crushing itself. It is not surprising, therefore, that many civil society initiatives around the world have resisted such harmful production of natural gas. For example, fractionation is prohibited in the Netherlands, France, Luxembourg, Germany, Bulgaria, regionally in Ireland, Spain, Switzerland. Major protests took place in Ireland, Poland, Romania, Great Britain and could still be listed. The State of Slovenia has granted a permit for fractionation in the Pg-10 and Pg-11 wells, although it is a matter of gas extraction, as I have already said, by non-conventional methods and by the fact that both legislation and inspection services are not prepared for such forms of risk. There is also a procedure currently under way to permit the construction of a gas refinery at the same location. Geoenergo, the holder of a 20-year exclusive concession for the use of gas in the area of police depression, concluded a joint investment agreement with a company registered in the British Virgin Islands, in short, in the tax oasis. The process, as far as I am aware, takes place as a negotiation of companies without the direct role of the State. The refinery, if it reaches it, will be built on a first-class agricultural land and a wider area where thermal tourism is to be developed. Of course, the local population is justifiably indignant, because it all shows that it is another project in the set of those who are somehow being said to be too late to stop it, regardless of the consequences that I have stated and will have. Since this is an area that concerns at least three of the above-mentioned departments, I ask the Minister of State and the Minister of State: What is Slovenia's position on the disputed natural gas extraction technology, in short to hydraulic fragmentation? Who's gonna stop this lunatic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u45	Mrs Irena Majcen, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravko Restoršek and Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food Mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u46	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, honourable Member Dr. Franz Runk! I would like to fence myself or say that I do not explain Slovenia's position on the disputed technology, but I explain only what we find at the Ministry of Environment and Space in the proceedings. But in every way, I've been bottled up by the notion of craziness. So, in our ministry, we follow the activities that are being prepared at the level of the European Union to support harmonised hydraulic fragmentation legislation. To this end, the Commission recommended, on 22 January 2014, the minimum principles for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons which apply large-scale hydraulic fracturing. However, this recommendation is intended to extract gas from shale and large hydraulic fracturing, where at least 1,000 cubic metres of water is injected into the well at the breaking stage or at least 10,000 cubic metres of water throughout the fracturing process. What I'm trying to say is that there are no Screamers in Prekmurje. There are sandstones in Prekmurje and this is the fundamental difference between these two technologies. In fact, the gas produced by hydraulic fracturing from sandstones is up to a thousand times more permeable than shale, so the fragmentation technology is not the same. So far, a total of 655 cubic metres of water has been injected in the Pg-11A garden and 674 cubic metres of water, approximately 265 cubic metres at each breaking stage, which is much less than the threshold I mentioned earlier and is a recommendation from the European Commission. Domestic environmental legislation is in line with European rules, namely Directive 2011/92EU. It is an environmental impact assessment and Directive 2012/18EU on the management of major accidents involving dangerous substances that amend and repeal Council Directive 96/82EC. Therefore, at least from the point of view of our ministry, we do not plan to prohibit the use of hydraulic sandstone crushing methodology. It is true, however, that, on the basis of the role we have, a prior environmental impact assessment procedure is under way and water consensus must also be obtained. If an important environmental impact is identified in this preliminary procedure, environmental impact assessments will be necessary for these activities and environmental permits will be obtained as a result. However, I would like to make it clear and clear that such applications are currently not at the Ministry of Environment and Space, but not at the Authority which otherwise is in the process of this procedure, which is the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Environment and Space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u47	Mr President, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, Mr Trcek! We've studied this question of yours. The hydraulic fracturing of shale or cracking, which produces natural gas or oil from rocks, is an unconventional method for fossil fuels, which in our view still needs to be thoroughly explored, and thus, in particular, we think of the impact on the economy, especially the impact on the environment. Although this has been happening in the United States for some 70 years, that is where they began to explore. At the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, we are of the opinion that all climate and environmental protection measures must be provided or implemented before the use of fossil speech by this method starts, and with the greatest possible legal clarity and predictability for responsible authorities, citizens and business operators. The effect on small and medium-sized enterprises is that it is small.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u48	Minister of the Jews, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u49	Now in 14 seconds A ha, the 12 MKGP protects agricultural land and if there is a role that is not available after our verification, we will do everything we can to make the best agricultural land [[…]] [[…]] [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] in this as well as in all other cases. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u50	Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u51	Thank you for your word. Of course, I am not satisfied with the answer, but it is expected. I have to say that I wrote this question a week ago, and in the meantime we learned more beautiful things, say, about ecological crime in Cantiba at the time of the rehabilitation of the wells of Pt-95 and 39, where, according to the workers' statements, ecological crime has taken place, as I have already said. Geoterm collected a number of tons of toxic substances and dumped them into these wells. Madam Minister said: "It is not difficult for me to say that Petrola and I have really heard from our ministry." Of course it's clear to me and my associates that it's the Sandstone Prekmurje. The local population also remembers the disaster that took place across the border in the nearby Hungarian gas field in 1998, when they had to relocate for fourteen days 5,000 inhabitants. My colleague Göncz, who has, I think, the same or similar question, has repeatedly asked this question, four or five times, in previous mandates and has received, to put it mildly, a muzzle of general answers. In short, it's a subject that concerns all of us. And while we are likely to differ ideologically, valuablely, in whatever way you want, I hope that we are not so different in terms of not protecting the environment and nature, especially in some parts of Slovenia, which are usually forgotten, which are already so dwindling. I would therefore like to request a supplement to the reply that, after all, the Minister of Agriculture will also have time for several sentences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u52	First of all, the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magi Food has the floor. Dejan Židan to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Allow me to describe the procedure by which the Ministry, as a co-legislator, is protected by agricultural land when there is a desire to change destination. You know that there is a shortage of agricultural land in Slovenia, which is why the ministry is often accused of having too rigid but not too soft an approach. We are actually protecting, and also where it comes from the DDP or the spatial plans of the municipalities. We understand that some activities in the congregations must continue, but then we are looking for land to replace. When it comes to investments that are industrial or economic, even in this case, the same – the priority must be given to land that is not used for agriculture. In Slovenia we have more than 100 and some crafty, entrepreneurial or business zones that have been built, some also with European money, and other than sidewalks and lamps about factories there is no spirit or hearing. And that's a priority where new factories are built. In a specific case, we will also decide if the role comes, as I said, we did not track these roles at the Ministry in such a way that our interest will always be protected by the Slovenian agricultural land which is lacking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u54	The text for a procedural proposal for a debate is set out by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u55	Yes, on the one hand, I am pleased with Mr Restoralska and the Jew's responses, but not with the response of the most responsible minister, and I hope that there will be some way of overcoming reason here and that we will reach a moratorium on fracking in Slovenia. Therefore, in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that we hold a debate on this subject at the next meeting of the National Assembly. And I also hope that you will support me in this vote tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u56	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 3 March 2015, in the framework of the votes. The following raises the question of Dr Mitja Horvat, Minister of Public Administration Boris Koprivnikar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u57	Thank you for your word. President of the National Assembly, distinguished ministers and ministers, ladies and gentlemen and fellow Members of Parliament! In recent times in the National Assembly, we have considered a series of documents relating to the treatment of immovable property of the State. A number of these documents also often show that the current real estate management system in the Republic of Slovenia is ineffective. The proposed deployment-oriented plans are not being implemented. The state owns a type of property that is also empty, and on the other hand, we record high rents paid by some state-owned entities, record keeping, dispersed management raises a number of issues. Therefore, the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Koprivnikar, asks you: In view of the adoption last December of the amendment to the Law on State Administration and the provision for the central management of the property of the State, I am interested in: What are the specific plans of the Ministry of Public Administration in this area?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u58	The Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnikar, answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this question, too. You correctly note that the current management of the property of the country is quite fragmented and rather ineffective, so we have also set ourselves specific tasks to make this property management significantly better. In fact, more than 500 different operators are operating state property at this moment, so it is extremely difficult to provide certain uniform procedures, and all these operators themselves conclude contracts, surrenders and disposals with this property, except for the Government, which decides only on non-payment transfers. We also note that the availability procedures are rather imprecise, the auctions are published in the Official Journal and on the websites, i.e. more than 500 websites of different operators, while we also manage the holiday facilities for which we find that while they are full-time during the season, there are still some possibilities, but it is positive that in this part of the management of the housing fund and the broadcasting capacity we are actually getting sufficient resources to fully ensure that they are maintained in such a state that they can be usable. The Housing Commission also has 503 residences, 51 of which are vacant, 41 of which are included in the sales order, for real estate, and 9 of which will be leased again this year. However, the larger problem is the unoccupied capacity available to individual ministries. The Ministry of the Interior has 110 non-scheduled persons, of which 64 are scheduled for broadcasting, 20 for sale, 265 have the Ministry of Defence, which is planning 127 for sale and 138 for rent, and the Ministry of Justice. In this situation, what are we actually planning to do to improve the situation? First of all, the measure that you have already mentioned is central management of real property. We are working very intensively and very concretely on this measure. This morning we confirmed the final material with an accurate project plan of all activities in order to implement real central property management by the end of 2017. And what are the essential measures? To consolidate real estate management under the responsibility of one operator. This has already been tried in the past by a special law on the housing fund, which was subsequently repealed. We are also preparing very similar activities now, but with this difference that property is not tolerated and that it is not created by a separate body, but is transferred to the Ministry of Public Administration. It is very important that financial resources are pooled within one operator gradually, as will real estate, which of course means that we will also be able to make more demanding investments, energy rehabilitations, say facilities such as Beethoven and Gregorčičev, which need more investment, but there is not enough resources to do so, and this will certainly be possible by combining them. It is then very important that such management also brings with it a coordinated approach to solving the spatial problems of the public administrations or a simplified so-called common migration plan, which is not an act that happens once, but is constantly being checked how we can enable the authorities to make the most of the premises available to the authorities through internal transfers, so that they can act as bodies in one place as compactly as possible, so that we can rent as little space as possible and use as much as possible those areas owned by the Republic of Slovenia. We are also planning a series of measures for the intensive sale of unnecessary real estate in the form of public auctions, as well as the use of electronic tools already introduced in the field of public procurement. We will also use these tools in the area of real estate. However, we are also quick to regulate land registers because there is still a kind of ambiguity here. Association alone will also bring together professional staff, which means that we can better plan investments, monitor them, monitor them and thus make more investments, and more efficient at lower costs.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u60	Dr Mitja Horvat has the floor to make a request for a reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u61	Thank you so much for saying that. In the main part, I am pleased with your answer and, above all, I would not be reminded of the abuse of applying for a word, where I wish you, of course, all the good in the way you set out in your plans for better asset management. I'd like to ask a further question, because in your answer, I didn't see the content: What can be done or planned in the field of high rents that we pay for the operation of state-owned entities? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u62	Mr Boris Koprivnikar has the floor of the Minister of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u63	When I took over this task, I may have found it a little surprising that we do not actually have a single record or a review of the actual costs that would allow an assessment of which rent is high and which is not. Therefore, in recent months we have prepared a list of all properties with an estimate: rent per square metre, rent per job and also management costs per square metre and per job. This means for all the premises, whether they are owned or leased by the Republic of Slovenia, we have this moment already prepared a review of the cost of rent per unit, and this is very important for action. We find that these relationships are practically 1:10. This is why we are already looking for alternative spaces in the first phase of the migration plan, especially for those rentals that are extremely high to move into premises owned by the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, we are also opening discussions with lenders to re-examine the possibility of reducing these leases. Even with the project, which is actually being fully implemented, although we are preparing a final confirmation for the Government, we are already obtaining data, and after confirmation by the Government, we will call again on all the authorities and all operators to report economic data on real estate in addition to the records, which means that we will be able to monitor in a timely manner what is the rationality of these leases and this rationality that is currently being adapted to all further activities. It is important that the economic elements are always a real estate part that monitors what is otherwise a part of the property. In this way we can determine which rentals are rational, which ones are not, and then we conduct further activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u64	The next question will be raised by Mrs Eva Irgl, Minister of Infrastructure Dr. Petr Gasperšić and Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Dr. Anji Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u65	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the two ministers mentioned above. I'm going to be brief on this one of the Members' questions, so I'm going to go straight to the media. Persons with disabilities are particularly vulnerable to mobility, or when we talk about their mobility, depending on the assistance of companions, helpers and others, so of course in our social space we must do everything in our power to alleviate such problems. It is often noted in the public that the sanctioning of parking offences in places for persons with disabilities is insufficiently sanctioned and that such low sanctions are in practice extremely rarely carried out. The Road Traffic Rules Act lays down a fine of €40 for disabled persons without a valid parking ticket. If someone who parks in a place marked as disabled doesn't have the map that's needed and pays the penalty right away, then it's 20 euros. I believe that the penalty is too low because it is the same as the parking penalty for parking without a paid parking space in other parking spaces. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you: How do you identify yourself to this problem or what your opinion is? Do you think that control of those who unjustifiably pack in places for disabled persons is allowed to be effective or require further changes? According to my data, which I have acquired, and as far as citizens and citizens are concerned, surveillance is not good and is more orderly. And I'm asking the Minister of Infrastructure: What do you think about considering higher penalties for those parking in places for disabled persons? Was it possible that the government had been thinking in this direction? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u66	The Minister of Infrastructure Dr. Peter Gasperšič and the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Mrak are responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u67	Thank you very much, President. Dear Member Eva Irgle! With regard to the question of the Ministry's position on parking arrangements for disabled persons, I would like to give the following answer. From the point of view of the Road Traffic Rules Act, the matter is regulated as you yourself have mentioned that in designated parking spaces for disabled persons, you can park a disabled person with a valid parking card. This is supervised by the police and the editorial services. Only the identification of these parking spaces and the marking on certain areas where persons with disabilities can park shall be governed by the Regulation on requirements for the provision of unimpeded access, entry and use of public-use facilities and multi-housing buildings under the responsibility of the Ministry of Environment and Space. This Regulation lays down minimum requirements, while individual investors, for example trading centres, may impose stricter requirements, i.e. several parking spaces reserved for disabled persons, which can also be observed in recent times. These parking places are already quite large in these shopping centres. Finally, I would add that we are pleased to note that in recent years there has been an improvement in the culture of use of these parking spaces, as the use of unwarranted facilities has been declining despite the fact that these penalties are in fact relatively low or are equivalent to incorrect parking for other road users. However, I will accept this initiative of yours to study, so that this particular offence may also be considered to introduce a higher penalty, so that I accept this initiative.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u68	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Thank you, Members for the question. At the Ministry of Labour, which also covers an area of equal opportunity, we are certainly committed to allowing persons with disabilities equal access to the physical environment. And special parking places are one of these elements. This is clearly enshrined in the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, including in the Equalization of Opportunities Act. However, as they both stated, this is determined by different laws, with different rules. At this point, however, I would like to draw attention mainly to some of our general social culture in this area. I would not, however, want to always deal with all social issues in a way that we are raising penalties, because then perhaps we will have another time in this place, in this respected National Assembly, a debate that we have too high a penalty, for example in the case of offences, speeding up and all that we have already talked about in this National Assembly, that it is, above all, at each individual, that it may show very clearly that it opposes when someone parks in a place that has not been marked on the car, because it must be marked on the car, that it is a disabled person, in a place for disabled persons. So it's a social culture. I would really appeal more to all of us, who, as we perform in public space, clearly express this disagreement, and that we may nevertheless, and especially by our example, have an impact on this. However, it is stipulated by the regulations that there should be at least one place where up to 50 parking spaces are intended for disabled persons, and it is also appropriate, since now with different techniques, the adaptation of cars also increases the need for space, and should also be seen together with the disabled, because one of the very important passwords or the convention on disabled people says that nothing without disabled persons should be invited, so they should also be invited if they wish to make any changes or agree with them for these urgent changes. However, I do not oppose this initiative of yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u69	The next question will be raised by Mrs Iva Dimic, Minister of the Interior, Mag. Spring Györkös Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister! We face a high level of domestic violence in Slovenia, according to research. To sum up the findings of the Report on National Research on Private Violence and Partnerships carried out by researchers at the Institute of Criminology at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana, more than 90% of the victims of violence are women in most cases. More than 50% of women over the age of 15 have already experienced one form of domestic violence after this study. Too often, domestic violence ends tragically, with the murder or murder of a partner or former partner. Studies have also shown that children are particularly affected by domestic violence. It is to them and their rights that special attention must be paid, for they themselves are powerless to deal with domestic violence. When domestic violence turns into a tragedy and a murder or murder, the child actually loses both parents. One for death and the other for prison terms. Measures to prevent domestic violence should therefore be given much more attention. Particular attention should be paid to ensuring effective measures to ensure the safety of women and children who are victims of domestic violence. One of the most important measures available to the police is the prohibition of approaching a specific place or person. The police may issue such a measure for a maximum period of 10 days. On the proposal of the injured person to be served at least three days before its expiry, the investigating judge may extend this measure but for a maximum period of 60 days. In our view, the regulation of this measure is inadequate in terms of duration in order to achieve effective protection for victims of violence. For we know that victims of violence need effective protection for a longer period of time, as long as the violence lasts or at least until the conclusion of a judicial procedure, which is usually a long and lasting period of several years. Madam Minister, I ask you: Are you already thinking or perhaps also preparing a proposal for amendments and supplementing the Law on the tasks and powers of the police relating to the duration of the measure banning the proximity of a particular place or person? Thank you, Madam Secretary, for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u71	The Minister of the Interior has the floor, Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u72	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for the question raised. One of the most important tasks of the police is undoubtedly to prevent violence. The police follow the principle of zero tolerance, because we also know that violence is a complex social phenomenon, and on the other hand, it also requires a comprehensive and very deep interdepartmental approach. The Ministry of the Interior clearly supports the possibility of passing a restraining measure for a longer period of time. However, I must point out here that this must be within the jurisdiction of the courts which determine all the facts and circumstances of the case. In fact, after the current regulation, the court is the one that somehow has primate in this area. In fact, the measure prohibiting approximation is regulated by three key laws, namely, the Criminal Procedure Act, when ordered by the investigating judge, then by the Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence, when assigned by the court in civil proceedings, and by the law referred to by the Member, i.e. in the Law on the Tasks and Powers of the Police, when issued by the police, i.e. those who first arrive at the place where they carry out their basic mission as a repressive body. Police officers may order this measure for a period of up to 48 hours and shall immediately send it to the investigating judge for review. Thus, a statement of action by police officers in view of the structure and purpose of the Law on the tasks and powers of the police immediately serves the objective of the immediate protection of the victim against violence. Here I stress that in this case, this law is only one of the measures taken to help victims. In fact, as the honourable Member has already pointed out, this is one very important measure, because it is this measure that will then enable other institutions to become creatively involved later, and they have the responsibility to resolve this problem. However, it is certainly not the purpose of this measure, as set out in the law, for a short-term solution to the problem, but primarily to encourage a long-term process, whose final recovery must certainly be called the benevolence of the victim. By a measure prohibiting the approximation under the Law on Police Tasks and Powers, police actually provide the victim with the first and most urgently necessary protection against violence, on the one hand, to remove the agent and, on the other hand, to enable the inclusion of other authorities, i.e. non-repressive ones, the police also inform the centres for social work because cooperation between these services and the police is essential. As regards the duration of this measure, as I said, the measures shall be assessed by an investigative judge who may confirm, cancel or extend to 10 days. As regards the extension of the duration of the measure, I can say that when we open the law on the tasks and powers of the police, we will certainly try to open a public debate on the criteria that must be met if the judge can then take action for a longer period or even obtain a legal mandate. As far as specific statistics are concerned. I believe that this Member is probably also of interest. The proportion of measures repealed by the investigating judge is moving around around 3%, which means that the police are doing their job so effectively today at this stage of the problem, while the proportion of extended measures is increasing annually. As far as 2014 is concerned, the proportion of the measures repealed this year was in fact the lowest in the history of the imposition of the measure, amounting to 2.9%. The first police measure to prohibit approximation is therefore intended as a first emergency measure, with the aim of immediately protecting the victim from violence. However, in the case of a longer-term measure, it makes sense for the Court to assess the merits of the measure and also to decide. I can also say that the police are very active in this area, including actively working with the competent authorities. If I can only illustrate that, together with the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, we have joined the Vesna project. It is a project to live a life without violence, whose aim was to deepen the knowledge of those professions that are most actively involved in the forms of assistance to victims of violence. The police also spend a great deal of time training police officers to deal with domestic violence and also organise expert consultations for relevant institutions and NGOs.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u73	Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor to make a request for a reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u74	Thank you, again, for your word. Thank you, too, for your answer. I would like to stress this, in view of the things we are witnessing in everyday life, that in relation to the imposition of a measure prohibiting the proximity of a particular place or person, in our opinion, this measure should be expressed as soon as the victim declares that she or the children or all of them are at risk. In fact, every case of domestic violence is specific and different. Family conditions are best known to those who live in it. The victim can also best assess when the life, health, or safety of one of the family members is at risk, since the perpetrator knows the best and knows what he is capable of. I would like to draw particular attention here to the expression of this measure. Madam Minister, I therefore ask you: Are you going to prescribe, in a sub-legislative regulation, a regulation prohibiting access to a particular place or person, in Article 4, a criterion for determining the circumstances of the sentence of the measure, whenever the victim declares that he is at risk? For there have been many instances of victims declaring themselves at risk and not reporting them, and then the worst family tragedies have occurred. I'm interested in that answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u75	The Minister for the Interior shall have the floor to complete the reply. Vesna Györkös Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u76	As far as the restraining measure is concerned, the police have been implementing this measure for 11 years, that is, since 2004. Over the past few years, the police have imposed about a thousand measures banning approximation. As far as specific statistics are concerned, this year alone, it was 132 in last year's year that there were a thousand 046. Looking at statistics from 2010 to 2013, there are about a thousand measures every year. As far as the conditions for the order of the measure are concerned. This measure may be pronounced both in the case of a criminal offence and in the case of an offence involving elements of violence. However, as you have already said, it must also identify the actual threat to life, personal security or the freedom of the victim. This is what the police have identified in a specific case on the basis of possible previous treatments of violence from the circumstances detected at the time of intervention and after the information collected from the victims and eyewitnesses, as well as from the data of the Centre for Social Work. I would like to point out that the police are responding to every sense of violence that has been reported and must also respond. However, I must point out that these police responses can be timely and even more effective, it is very important to cooperate with society or the environment, which also helps to prevent the worst, that is to say tragic consequences. Both prevention and further consideration require active cooperation between all institutions, in the field of social, health, education, non-governmental organisations, in order to achieve that state of awareness of society, in order to effectively ensure that tolerance to violence is null and void. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u77	The next question will be raised by Mr Franz Jurša, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magi Food. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, President. A nice greeting to all three of us, to the minister and to the ministers! Dear Mr. Secretary! The legislation provides that hunting families or hunting organisations are social organisations that can acquire funds or rights on funds and use them to achieve their objectives. In this way, the hunting family can also buy or lease agricultural land. Hunting families were thus paying off land purchases, usually for smaller plots of inferior quality designed to shelter and feed wild animals. The money was collected with membership fees or fees. Some hunting families have acquired land, I stress, in return, as basic cooperative organisations, some as agricultural organisations. And it depended on whether a particular hunting family could sign into the land book as the owner of these purchased land, or whether it was registered as social property. Article 14 of the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests, which has already been decided by the Constitutional Court, has thus resulted in unequal treatment of hunting families, as some hunting families have to transfer their lands to the Republic of Slovenia. This issue is now being addressed by the courts, and it has already been the subject of consideration and initiatives in the National Assembly. In view of the fact that the courts have already found that hunting families should be given special status and thus special treatment in relation to the current transfer of land to the country, you, Minister, ask: Are there sufficient arguments, according to your assessment, for accession to the amendment of the legislation, in particular, or do you consider that there is sufficient political will to amend the Law on the Agricultural Lands Fund in this part to allow hunting families to own, or at least use, the land they bought? I believe that it is difficult to accept the affected hunters, that these lands, which they have bought and paid, should be bought for the purposes of the game, transferred to the Fund of Agricultural Lands and paid rent for their use. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u79	The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magi Food is responsible. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u80	Thank you, President. Mr Member, thank you for the question. This is a subject that I also know and the conclusion is now actually correct. The current legislation does not allow families who have obtained land in return to carry out their activities to the same extent. And the only possible solution to the current problem is the amendment of the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands. Although the Ministry itself does not plan to amend the Agricultural Lands Act, the Ministry plans and prepares a law on the management of the state forest, which will also intervene in the Agricultural Lands Fund. Perhaps we can agree that this is an opportunity to make a nuisance, and this is an awkwardness concerning the management of hunting families, so that we can take advantage of this opportunity at that time. In any case, the ministry is ready for this and I propose that we look at the issue together and how to solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u81	Mr Franc Jurša has the floor to make a request for a reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u82	Thank you for that answer. I am pleased that the Minister is not excited about the renationalisation of property in our country, and I am sure that in the coming months we will also find the right solutions and thus meet the needs of a number of hunting families that have not yet settled these matters in the past.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u83	You know, Mr. Franz Jursha, how I feel about that. I'm warning you about the abuse of procedure. Let's move on, the next question will be posed by the mag. Andrej Shircelj, and to the Minister of Finance, Dr. Dusan Maramor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear Minister! My question is current, namely the obligations that the Republic of Slovenia has under the European mechanisms for the rescue of Greece. We know that Greece has been the subject of debates at the Eurogroup and also in other European institutions mainly because of the implementation of the programme and, in particular, how it will pay its debt back. Slovenia has guaranteed some 986 million Euros of principal plus interest. In addition, we have here a special so-called bilateral debt where Slovenia has a share of slightly less than half a percent, amounting to about 263 or 264 million. I want to know: Firstly: How does the Minister for Finance see the resolution of the entire Greek crisis in this connection, especially in the sense that Greece has 180% of the debt, 180% of the gross social product and is likely to be difficult in the long run? Given that the new government has now received a four-month bridge period under certain commitments, which can be binding in one way or another, we know that each Greek government has said that it will better recover taxes in order to reduce corruption in order to reduce ministries, the number of ministries and so on. So is this one. On the other hand, we have actually increased spending on this new Greek government. It is said in the area of pensions, in the area of minimum wage, the increase in public sector employees and how this will actually work together. What are our legal options for Slovenia actually getting this money back in the black scenario or the worst-case scenario, or for the guarantee not to actually be cashed out?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u85	Dr. Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, responds.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u86	Thank you so much for asking. With regard to the current situation of Greece, we know that in the stage where this four-month period, in which the new agreement is to be concluded, is essentially a new programme, for example, with all the details, a temporary programme, which is part of the continuation of the existing programme and part of the proposals by Greece, has been adopted as a good basis for continuation, but by examining precisely what these proposals made by Greece actually mean substantively and financially. This review will be completed by about April and will then again decide how to proceed. Right, yes, Slovenia is exposed against Greece, in the midst of higher exposures. We have about 2.7% of the gross domestic product of exposure, Portugal the most, Cyprus the second, say Germany has 2.2%, Luxembourg thinks 1.8%. From this point of view, these claims made by Slovenia and potential claims, if all guarantees are actually realised, are relatively large, there are approximately EUR 1.5 or 1.6 billion. We have two kinds of these exposures, three, actually. The first is a direct loan granted by Slovenia to Greece of EUR 263 million. The second is through this stability mechanism, where we have a maximum amount of guarantees, not only for Greece, but also for other countries that have come into difficulty, these were Portugal, Ireland, where we have 3.6 billion frames. And the third way is through the International Monetary Fund, where we are also owners. Through all these instruments, Slovenia contributed money to Greece. If I go to the loan agreement first. In this loan contract with Greece, certain restrictions are included for the borrower, e.g. a pair of passports, so that you are treated as well as everyone else, cannot be treated differently. However, it must be said that it is not in line with existing practice in debt markets in order to secure loans to Member States through legal institutions that are otherwise common in banking loans. It is said that there are no such insurances as the real estate flag and so on. In the hypothetical case of non-payment of obligations by Greece, the Republic of Slovenia is based on a framework agreement with the EFSF, which is an instrument to ensure stability eligible for a proportionate share of the claims that would be deducted from the EFSF by the borrower Member State. Therefore, if the guarantees were to be cashed and the EFSF had established a claim on Greece, the part that would have been recovered would have received Slovenia back in a proportionate proportion and the rest would remain Slovenia's direct claim to Greece. This is said to have occurred if this guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia has been called. In the event that the EFSF would not fully recover the amount of the guarantee from the Borrower Member State, as I was talking about, the EFSF would bring to the Republic of Slovenia the claim to the Borrower Member State of the share which represents the difference between the payment of the Borrower Member State and the paid guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia. In short, the insurance of such claims is, in fact, only in that Greece is growing, regaining economic growth, becoming financially stable and gaining access to financial markets. It is therefore crucial whether these programmes, which are somehow agreed upon by international institutions, are effective or not effective. And here, of course, is the basic question whether the programme which has now been extended by these changes will be one that will enable Greece's economic growth and again access to financial markets, which has succeeded Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Shircelj, request for supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Minister for your answer. I'd like to complement my question here with something else. Indeed, in these treaties, there is actually a clause in paragraphs of passage, as the minister said you are in the same position as everyone else in the process of paying your debt. In this regard, however, I am actually interested, given the situation on the international markets and in particular the situation of Greece or, given the situation, the current situation of Greece, especially here, I am referring to the financial situation and also to the political situation: Do you think that the following loans or guarantee contracts, with regard to other mechanisms, should change these insurance or increase the insurance of Greece to pay its obligations to Slovenia? This is where I ask about Slovenia. I think or know that this would probably apply to other countries. Of course, I am not stressing them here, but I am stressing Slovenia. The agreements will continue and I wonder whether these international clauses should also be amended. I mean, it's not the usual thing. Of course, I agree that it hasn't been before. There has never been such a case before. We are in such a situation now, and I am therefore interested in the opinion of the Minister of Finance on this.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Dr Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u90	Thank you. This is a question for a million dollars because this changes certain rules of conduct on the international stage, which are probably very difficult to change. It is necessary to obtain the consent of all members with different interests. So the probability of that being possible is, in my opinion, relatively small. I think that it is more likely that Slovenia will receive these loans if the programme, which will now be adopted in these four months, is to be produced if this programme also takes into account some of the errors identified in previous programmes that have failed or have had to be extended and extended again. It is likely that Greece is right to some extent when it considers certain measures to be measures that have weakened Greece not to be strengthened. Here is a major debate between economists, which way out of the crisis of Greece would be more appropriate, whether it is more Kenyan or more unclassified. And this is probably where we need to find one modality that would probably be most appropriate for Greece. However, to make it possible, let's say that the insurance of the Greek island or something like that is not normal in international treaties between countries, so as I said before, I doubt. Maybe I'll add that. First, at the first Eurogroup meeting we had, Greece placed as one of the important points of the debt write-offs of the countries that borrowed the money, in part at least the write-off of the loaned money. Here we all resisted because a certain write-off had already been made, namely with a given loan, which he gave first for three years with 300 and 400 basis points of interest over the eurobor on credit, which is now 30 years old and has a 3-month eurobor plus 50 basis points. And for 10 years, nothing's been paid back. So we have already written down 40 to 65%, depending on the discount rate to be applied, and all other countries as well. We therefore considered that this was wrong and now Greece has committed itself not to open the issue of repaying the loan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček will ask the Minister of Culture mag. Juliani Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! Dear Madam Secretary! In your performances, you regularly state that the Ministry prepares analyses as grounds for amending laws that have a significant impact on the position of creators and on the accessibility of culture. So you predicted an analysis for the basis of the new roofing law on culture, the new media law, the law on the protection of heritage, and so on. The analysis should be followed by proposals for amendments to the laws, which are modest in line with the Government's 2015 regulatory plan for the culture of power, as they only provide for changes to existing laws, with an exceptional cultural euro law, and not with new laws that the cultural public so deemed to expect, in particular the new supervisory law on culture and new film and media laws. Since the beginning of your term of office in almost six months, you have not published a single analysis, nor have you submitted a single law to the procedure. We also read in the media that you are going to reorganize the Ministry and cancel the Slovenian Language Service without having any analysis done. I want to know: How many of these tests are you doing at the Ministry? Who is the performer of these analyses? How much will you spend on them in 2015, with only EUR 35,000 in their budget? How is it that none of these analyses are yet publicly available, given that, as an example of good practice, the reading culture analysis last year cost EUR 15,000, which means that you only have the resources available for two good analyses?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, Minister of Culture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u94	Thank you very much for that question. Dear President, Honourable Minister, Minister, Honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Respectable magus. Mirjam Bon Klanjšek! I would be very happy if you could address more than one sentence of this question to me on Friday. Because of the rather succinct question that you have given me, as the first sentence of your question today, of course it is very difficult to answer in this way, but I will do my best, but I think, look also at the few rules of procedure in which the Member of Parliament raises questions. In short, if you give me a source, a date, and also a framework context for that first sentence of yours, which was only reported to me on Friday, then it would be easier to answer your questions. Indeed, at the Ministry of Culture we follow the principle of accessibility and follow the principle of quality, diversity and public interest in culture. With regard to the abolition of the Slovenian Language Service, I don't know where you got this, and I'd ask here if you could give me a source of your information, because that's not true. However, we could have asked before at the Ministry of Culture and could have replied to you earlier that this information is not real. At the same time, we are aware of the increasingly difficult situation of cultural creators and of the vital role of the country in ensuring access to culture. It is also true that legal change requires a good examination of the area that wants to change first. As we know, we will only have to amend some laws this year because the handball moves took place during the term of your Minister for Culture. And since this is causing us serious problems, we will have to go into these urgent changes. It is also true that major legislative changes usually affect the position of creators. Since you did not specify exactly what you are really interested in, I will try to present some accurate such analyses, which are all being prepared within the working time of the Ministry employees. It is mainly the internal working materials of the Ministry of Culture, whose content will be reflected in the legislative proposals and the content of the strategies planned by the Ministry. Both at the Directorate of Creativity for the purpose of new legislation, this is a change in the basic law on culture, we are preparing an international review of four countries and an analysis of public cultural policies. Various options for arrangements for self-employed persons are also being explored. On the basis of the existing database for self-employed persons in culture, we monitor a number of factors in addition to the number of registered and contributors: the situation in the field of culture and by specialised professions, the age structure, the number of new entries, the number and causes of the removal from the register, the excess of income censorship, income in determining the income price, the age structure of self-employed persons, the peace of status and the reasons for the hospital, the application of the daily allowance and so on. At the same time, we collect statistics and publish them in statistical information from the Ministry of Culture, which also publishes them online: pay in culture, staff in culture, cultural offer and so on. In the field of media, a comparative analysis of the specific areas of the Media Regulation is being prepared in 2015 in some European countries. The analysis will be prepared in the first half of 2015 and is an internal working material of the Ministry. Comparative legal analysis will provide an expert basis for the preparation of a revised more modern media law. Comparative analysis is prepared by professional workers, that is to say the employees of the Ministry of Culture, which means that we will not pay extra for it. Thank you very much. I hope you'll allow me to proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, here's a supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u96	Dear Madam Secretary! Despite spending half your planned time criticizing me and your predecessor, I'd like to complete your answer. The analysis, which was the basis for the creation of new laws, is not just an analysis of the situation, an analysis of the problems and causes of them and an analysis of possible solutions. Something like this can only arise in the process in which the officials of the Ministry are involved, and they are carried out by qualified institutions for this purpose. However, it is particularly important that the interested public participates in this process with comments. Examples of such analysis are the analysis of the media landscape and the analysis of the situation of self-employed in culture published by the Ministry in the mandate of the former Minister. On the one hand, you are predicting a new roof law and in the Government's normative programme only changes to the existing one. Which one is it? I must clearly correct you as someone who was a member of the previous Parliament. Previous amendments to the bill on culture have been the subject of a broad public debate and regular legislative procedure. There was no rush. It seems to me that you do not hear the voices of culture, the public saying that work on laws that will introduce a new model in culture is essential. The Association and the National Council for Culture have spoken about this publicly and out loud, and we have recently read about it in the newspaper Delo, where the Minister also calls on the head of the Cankarjeva House Ursula Cetinski, and the recent director of this institution Mitja Rotovnik is also famous. Madam Minister, it seems to me that you do not hear the voices of the profession. With the lowest budget in recent years, and I quote your statement in the Reflections, you are very pleased. So far, you're not in public debate. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Not one single analysis of the condition. [[...]] I want to know: When and how will you ensure analysis and preparation of the necessary changes to existing legislation and when will you put them into public debate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u98	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! If we looked at the Government's normative programme, then we would see that there are many tasks to be done this year and many tasks to be able to approach the legislative changes competently next year. There are a lot of things going on, and I'm happy with the employees who are preparing these changes. You mentioned earlier some of the analyses that have been done before, which have been given a lot of money, but they don't have all the content that we need in order to be able to change the laws. I think we have enough of our own people in the ministries to make these changes without the money being spent outside the institutions. These are highly qualified people. These are people who have a high education who have been working in ministries for a long time, and I really don't know why you insist on putting money out of the house and preparing analyses like this. As far as dialogue with civil society is concerned, the strong dialogue we have with us at the Ministry will be difficult to obtain. So if you'll excuse me, as much time as I have left, I'd like to try to explain what kinds of analyses are still going on. I believe, however, that you want to show things as an opposition party in a different way than they are in reality. However, things are going well and I am happy with them. Maybe we should continue with the analysis. As you may or may not know, in my opinion, the Department of Cultural Diversity and Human Rights collects information on programmes and projects aimed at ethnic minorities and people with disabilities. Based on these data, some internal analyses and commissioned studies, such as the ethnic vitality of areas where small indigenous ethnic communities and the elderly live, the service has been involved in drafting legislation in the area of better accessibility of cultural goods for minorities. For the purpose of the development of the strategy of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of media for the period 2016-2020, the professional services shall analyse media data. Clearly, if there is a historical analysis, this is also being studied. For the purpose of preparing a strategy for the protection of cultural heritage, the Directorate for Cultural Heritage analyses data on the protection of cultural heritage. We have highly qualified employees in the field of cultural heritage. We also have the Department of Cultural Heritage, where experts are of the world standard, and you say they should give it to someone outside, but we have competent experts within us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will ask the Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Chairman. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! In Slovenia it has been noted for many years that the area of healthcare concessions is insufficiently regulated for us. We do not have a legal procedure for granting concessions, nor do we have any criteria under which concessions are awarded and when they are not. This leads to the unequal treatment of applicants for concessions and also the award of concessions for these programmes, where the public health network capacity is already sufficient. At the primary level, concessions are awarded by municipalities with very different practices. Some try, grant concessions on the basis of needs and invitations to tender, while others grant one-way, on the basis of the wishes of individual doctors, gradually disrupting the health homes they have set up themselves. Unfortunately, concessions at the secondary level, for which the Ministry of Health is responsible, are awarded without any concept. In doing so, no previous minister was an exception. Some were more inclined to grant concessions, while others were a little held back. In the coalition agreement, we have committed ourselves to modify the practice of granting concessions and will grant them temporarily, on the basis of the needs and the criteria produced, in a transparent manner. At the same time, we have committed that concessionaires will have to comply fully with the same rules as public institutions in the public health service. The uncontrolled award of concessions and the unclear rules of the game for the work of concessionaires are the main reasons for the gradual breakdown of the health system, which causes interference between public and private health activities. With concessions for programmes where public institutions have sufficient capacity, we also create insufficient exploitation of personnel, premises and equipment, which is reflected in the less efficient part of health homes as well as hospitals. However, the transfer of concessions from natural persons to legal persons is a particular problem for an indefinite period of time, which is also pointed out by the Association of Health Institutions. When the concession is awarded, parts may be placed in a position where the owner of the shareholding company sells to anyone with a concession. For the Social Democrats, it is a prerequisite for this area to improve the health situation. That's why I'm asking you: What measures have you taken so far to regulate the field of healthcare concessions? Have you already awarded any concessions or transfers of concessions to a legal person in your mandate? If you are, how much? What were the reasons for your decision? Thank you for your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister for Health, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u102	Thank you for the question, Madam Ambassador Magi. Bojana Mursich. Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I am pleased with this issue because, in recent times, there have been a number of public references to the fact that the Ministry of Health in a very large number has been granting concessions for indefinite periods to legal entities, these are limited liability companies. But that's not the case, so let me say more in answer. As the Member State correctly notes, the scope of the concessions is regulated by the Health Activity Act, where this scheme is very general, Articles 41 to 44 of this Act provide that a concession for the performance of public service in basic health activities shall be awarded by the municipal or city administrative authority responsible for health, with the consent of the Ministry. Here we are talking about concessions at the primary level, while concessions for the provision of public service in other health activities, in particular secondary, are awarded to the Ministry responsible for health. In the procedures for granting concessions, the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia and the competent chamber shall also participate in their opinions, without defining the Law on Health Activities of the Legal nature of those opinions. Furthermore, the law provides for a framework content of the concession contract whereby the concessionaire and the concessionaire regulate the public service relationship and the conditions under which the concessionaire must perform the public service, in particular the type of health activity carried out by the concessionaire, its scope, the start of the activity and the period of cancellation of the concession and the means provided by the concessionaire. The Ministry of Health shall not grant new concessions within the mandate of this Government, except in cases where accessibility to the public health service has deteriorated. These cases include the retirement of the concessionaire, the death of the concessionaire, or the termination of the concessionary relationship, since in those five months there was also a case where someone resigned or wanted to refund the concession. And concessions may be granted only in cases and only where the public health institution cannot provide sufficient services in accordance with the network adopted. As I have already said, in my mandate, as of 18 September, no concessions have been granted at the secondary level and four concessions have been granted at the primary level. These cases involved two concessions at the level of general medicine physician, one at the level of gynaecology and one case of physiotherapy. At the same time, at the Ministry, where I also appointed a special working group, which, despite the inadequacy of the existing law, is preparing an internal regulation, there are certain rules, criteria and criteria, so that, as the Member notes, on a uniform basis, as I have now mentioned, we will have a uniform criterion for all who will apply for these concessions until the adoption of the new Health Action Act. But it's true that these roles are quite something. According to the latest estimate, I believe these applications waiting for approval are around 25. And the future regulation is, as you have rightly stated, in the coalition contract, the Health Act, which is in the next year's normative programme, will define all that the concession contract provides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič, here's a supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u104	I thank the Minister very much for this first part of the answer that I expected. However, I am interested in: Can you tell me in particular when you are planning to regulate this area? Otherwise, you stated that in the coming year, but I think the situation is very serious and you should take action here as soon as possible. And also: Are you planning on cutting into already awarded concessions? Thank you very much for your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister for Health, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u106	Without having a defined entire primary network on the basis of which we can determine where actual public institutions cannot adequately ensure the accessibility of all primary health services, as well as a secondary network, we do not have a legal basis to interfere with existing concessions. The fact is, however, what is written down and what we will also follow in the new bill that concessions will have to be awarded on the basis of the adopted grid at the beginning, the secondary. Secondly, on the basis of public tenders. Thirdly, they must be granted to persons because the natural person is the one who provides and can receive the concession and not the legal person just so, partoo, because it may happen that we have a legal person but will not have a contract of employment with the relevant person who will be able to guarantee the quality and performance of a particular healthcare activity. Of course, it will be necessary, as the law itself, to do other things to ensure that this concession is granted for a certain period of time, with the possibility of renewal, but cannot be granted for life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko will ask the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Muramor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Minister, welcome! In January, I asked the Minister for Economic Development and Technology a written question concerning the unloading of work in Slovenia. In his reply, in particular, it was stressed that he could only give his opinion in terms of his competence, so this time I am addressing you, Minister of Finance, because somehow I believe that scissors and canvas are in your hands. For years economists have been pointing out the extremely high taxation of labour in Slovenia, which on the one hand represents a high cost for employers, and on the other hand also means low wages for employees. The employer's minimum wage in Slovenia is €917. If we look at, say, the net salary of thousands of euros, we see that there is a total cost of a employer of thousands of EUR 741. And if we can still see that for a thousand 500 euros, the net salary actually falls to 41% of the income scale, and the total cost of the employer is little less than 2 000 800 euros. If we look at the average wage burden in Slovenia, it is about 43%. Perhaps the border, when the country receives more than its employees, pays EUR 2 000 online. The current workload itself seems very unfair to me. In fact, he punishes those who are productive, punishes those who work, and is not at all developmental. It blocks the development, innovation, entrepreneurship, internationalisation of companies that are not competitive abroad and, above all, prevents the attracting of foreign investors to Slovenia, which choose in particular tax more favourable locations. Even in the Chamber of Economics of Slovenia, they believe that tax relief could eliminate the so-called employment spasm. On the other hand, they also support the introduction of a social cap that would actually limit social contributions in order to relieve the salaries of highly qualified staff, which are actually crucial for the development of new products in Slovenia. In summary, the high workload of high social security and income contributions mainly means low salaries for employees, the fact that highly qualified people are going abroad, that our companies are moving abroad or are not competitive, that we are not interesting to foreign investors, and in particular also completely hampers the development of the middle class in Slovenia. Dear Minister, even in the coalition contract, you have it written down that through the green budget reform you will create a situation for a gradual reduction of the workload. I want to know: What are you going to do to reduce the tax burden on work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Dr Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u110	Thank you for asking. This is indeed the area of the Ministry of Finance's work, and I would like to make it clear in the first place that the burden of income in Slovenia has been declining since 2005 – first with the reform in 2005, when the global revenue burden was established, then with the reform in 2007, when the burden of active income has been reduced through increased untaxed income and through the reduction of the progressiveity of tax rates. In 2008 and 2010, the introduction of additional general allowances resulted in further decommissioning of persons with the lowest income and the abolition of taxes on salaries paid. However, the changes introduced by the ZUJF in 2012 were prepared with the aim of decommissioning debtors who reach incomes above 1.3 average wages. It's for income. Labour burdens with social security contributions have remained at approximately the same level since 1996, as you mentioned. The highest share of labour burdens is precisely social security contributions. Solutions to relieve labour taxation and increase the competitiveness of businesses should therefore also be sought in the compulsory social insurance system. Indeed, in the coalition agreement for the 2014-2018 mandate period, there is a commitment here in the field of tax policy towards creating a situation for a gradual reduction of labour burdens, with the fiscal capacity of the country; therefore, they must be fiscally neutral, in particular, in view of the objectives we have with regard to deficit reduction. Through the green budget reform, by phasing out environmentally harmful subsidies and additional commitment towards exploring the possibility of reshaping the income scale to relieve the wages of highly skilled workers, which is also our problem. The Government has also committed itself to the restructuring measures of the public financial burden in terms of labour costs relief by signing a social agreement, where we have determined that we will review all taxes and calibrate the tax system so that Slovenia will be competitive with other countries. This is for 2015 and 2016; therefore, for these two years we have committed ourselves to this. In addition to those measures in the Coalition Agreement, it is possible to find solutions to the burden of labour costs in the social insurance system, as the relatively high workload of work, as I have already said, is due mainly to this area. In this case, more complex and coordinated measures would be needed in a number of areas that would require a broader social consensus, assuming that a comparable level of social security and the sustainability of the state, pension and health treasury would be required when reducing the burden of work, and of course you need time to do so. One of the priority activities of our ministry in the period 2015-2017 is the restructuring of the burden of public duties, which aim to redefine the distribution of the tax burden between consumption, income and property with a view to increasing competitiveness, as I mentioned earlier, and these solutions are expected to be by 2017 at the latest. Of course, we know here that we have one of the lowest taxes on property, and for social contributions, when compared with OECD countries, we are firmly moving up.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mrs Susana Pretty Šimenko will complete the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u112	Thank you for your answer. Maybe I'd just like another supplement. In this reply, the Minister of Economy made another proposal, namely, he sees the possibility of partially decommissioning labour costs also in amendments and additions to the Law on the participation of workers in profits. So I want to know: What exactly do you think about this? It further states that the 13th and 14th wages would be paid without any contribution when paid from the profits of the companies. What's your opinion on that? And maybe the following: What exactly do you think of the social cap? If you have a positive opinion about when, according to some fiscal sustainability, it would be possible to introduce this to us? Thanks for the update.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Dr. Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, will respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u114	Thank you very much. All these proposals were also expressed when we had negotiations on the social agreement, and we did not give any from the table, all of them could be relevant. The key point is that we are then comparable to foreign countries and that fiscally everything is sustainable. So I am not opposed to any of these proposals. However, I am taking my own stand, as I said at the hearing before the National Assembly, for the partial relief of the most suitable, is said to those who have higher incomes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Ms Anita Koleša will ask the Minister of Public Administration Boris Koprivnikar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues! The Public Finance Balance Act, adopted in 2012, and extended its validity for public financial reasons also during the current government period, has severely limited employment opportunities in the public sector and the restriction is also part of the union agreement. The provisions of the ZUJF over the three years have led to the impoverishment of the employment of the young generation and to the minimisation of the employment opportunities of young people in public administration, state institutions and the administrative measure has caused very serious problems in public institutions in the areas of health, education, culture. Prohibiting the replacement of retired or even only for the longer term of absent workers constitutes a disruptive work process or makes it impossible to develop within a particular area of activity which is still in dire need of new young ideas, courage and placement in an international scientific and research space. The law increases the number of poker workers who are most attractive in the field of culture and where the impoverishment of artistic corps with young players, musicians, artists proves to be an important human resources problem. As a result of the unfortunate ZUJF, the number of volunteer traineeships has increased, there has been a large anomaly in the market and in the long term can cause even more negative effects. That's why I'm asking Minister of Public Administration Boris Koprivnikar: What measures is the Ministry preparing as an appropriate solution to enable young people to re-engage in the public sector or to enter the labour market faster for graduates, especially social schools, art institutes, so-called public institutions and state institutions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Boris Koprivnikar, Minister of Public Administration, will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u118	Dear Members, honourable Members! Thank you for this question, which is difficult, and yet. I also hope that we will not have the unfortunate ZUJFs for a long time because we are trying to stabilise public finances with these laws, but public finances are a condition that we can actually finance all of these jobs we are talking about. In the public sector, there is an estimated 3% fluctuation annually, of which this restriction, arising from the ZUJFs over the past years, is actually 1%, meaning that there are 2% of substitutes, but we must adhere to the laws, the Law on Public Servants and the Law on Labour Relations, which lays down the basic principles, namely that employment in administrative services can take place only on the basis of a public tender after the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. While labour legislation also provides that access to a job should not be discriminatory, in this case we cannot give priority to any age group or any other group, and it is important that we understand this. However, replacement employment is possible, and there is actually no need to seek consensus in these replacement jobs, so it is a little easier here, but we are facing the whole problem that the reduction in the number of employees is being resolved through the so-called natural outflow system, which logically also increases the age structure in public administration. And I am more than excited at the fact that the number of young people in public administration has halved at this time of the ZUJF and these austerity measures and the age group has grown very, very much, even in the wider public sector. That's why it's more than a burning problem. What can we do or do in this area? One is traineeship jobs, and if I do not go into the field of labour law, which is in the domain of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, we need to find that in the field of public administration we are already using the practice that every experience counts, i.e. also a holiday, student work, a substitute for shorter working hours, because often in the employment of young people, the biggest problem is that they do not meet those basic criteria after the necessary experience, so that they can compete in a job, so they meet all the conditions they need. However, it is also possible to obtain such experience with temporary or temporary replacements. One step has also been taken towards the abuse of volunteer traineeships, which you have also mentioned, by a decision of the Government and by amending the legislation that will follow that each work is counted, and also traineeships should be properly rewarded, but it is not to ignore the important opportunities that are presented to us in the context of European projects, which provide directly certain opening funds, specifically targeted, for young people's jobs. Here, in the eighth priority axis, the first and second targets are €73 million to reduce youth unemployment and the €18.4 million Youth Employment Initiative. These are the means by which we can carry out this so-called positive discrimination in order to enable young people in the wider, generally labour market, better access to jobs. Perhaps in the context of public administration or the wider public sector, I can also mention that if we want to hire and if we want to employ young people, then we need jobs, this is a key formula. If there are no jobs, then there are no jobs for anyone, not for young people. That is why we see some options here also in that general direction that we are introducing through our horizontal projects, in order to reduce the number of tasks that the public sector is ordering from external operators and to do as much as possible on their own with so-called insourcing. In fact, there are resources available to employ younger ones, but it is necessary to know that the cost of public administration must be controlled, that the cost of the public sector depends to some extent also on what the economy can afford. And if the wider public sector and the state administration are effective, then we will generate a lot of jobs, including outside the public sector. And there are also opportunities for youth employment. Personally too, this tendency or commitment to young people carrying new ideas, I demonstrate through the structure of my cabinet and our ministry, because I believe that young people bring the new ideas we need.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Podkoršek will raise the question to the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravek Počvalšku.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u120	Mr. Vice President, the Council of Ministers! The well-respected Minister of Economy, to whom I will address the question, is a matter of concern for the Slovenian economy. For a long time, we have found that many companies in Slovenia, which are successful, are over-indebted. That's why I'd be interested: What strategy does the State have when incurring over-indebted companies having a good and favourable position on the market and operating on a current and positive basis, but due to over-indebtedness, they are limited in financing production and, above all, new investments? This loses the fight against competition, especially in foreign demanding markets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Minister Zdravko Restoršek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u122	Dear Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! Your Honor! The question you have asked is important and relates to a difficult problem, given that an important part of our economy is indebted, but nonetheless. Complements of insolvency laws have been adopted in 2014, allowing companies that are over-indebted and cannot acquire new liquidity assets to carry out the preventive restructuring procedure prior to insolvency proceedings. The procedure shall be initiated at the request of the debtor. The preventive restructuring procedure shall be conducted in order to enable the debtor, who is likely to become insolvent within a period of one year, to implement appropriate measures of such restructuring or financial obligations under the financial restructuring agreement. At the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, we are preparing, in cooperation with the SID Bank, an important step forward in terms of upgrading those funds, if you remember, two years ago, when 500 million were made together for these purposes, but only 70 of them took advantage of them, because they were conditions, it is not just this part that they were not so current to the economy. In short, the SID bank is preparing a financial engineering measure to encourage the development of small, medium-sized enterprises and businesses that need cash flow to finance growth or are in difficulty for a little longer period of up to 12 years. It is said that an important step forward is being taken on this segment. The second point is that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is on a proposal from the European Commission – this is what we had to do or was right to do – 22. 1. In 2015, it appointed an inter-resort working group to restructure and resilient businesses to simply represent the successful implementation of business restructuring and debt procedures following the rehabilitation of the banking system, the following condition necessary for the long-term recovery of the economic situation or economic activity. The working group for this restructuring shall consist of members from the Ministry of Finance, the Bank of Slovenia, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and the Ministry of Justice. However, the tasks of this group are as follows. There are six: an analysis of the application of available legal mechanisms and best international practices to all stakeholders in the restructuring process, monitoring of restructuring procedures and the deleveraging of enterprises in the restructuring process, preparation of a business restructuring and debt plan, coordination of stakeholders in the process of this process, development of proposals for systemic measures to increase the efficiency of the debt and restructuring process of enterprises, and development of proposals for measures to restore bank credit activity and ensure economic growth. But the key issue is the one that I said at the outset that we want to prepare with the SID bank some measures that would allow those companies that are over-indebted but perspective to have a market to restructure themselves in some normal way in this financial sense to the extent that they can be normal and independent and meet the challenges in this business area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Bojan Podkoršek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u124	Thank you, Your Honor, for your answer. For most of my questions, I got answers. However, this is only about companies that are healthy and have production that sell their products on foreign markets. Surely these companies do not escape the debts they have created in the past. These are companies that regularly pay salaries that pay taxes and contributions on a regular basis. However, when their financial accounts need to settle more past debts, then they run out of important things when they fight for customers on the world market, they run out of basic resources for production, new machines, and above all, they can be more competitive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Minister Zdravko Restoršek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u126	Everything that's been said is true. Once again, I must say that we are aware of the problem that an important part of our economy is in debt, secondly, that we have many companies within this, which are good, which have markets, and where we need to come up with some concrete measures to extend their debts in some way over a longer period. For this reason, I said that I expect the most from this measure in cooperation with the SID Bank, where we have to allow these productive firms to extend these obligations over a longer period of time so that they do not eat from hand to mouth and that they will have the opportunity to stabilise their business. Here I would mention another matter that may be a little bit more parallel, but we have no direct influence on it. This is the role that DUTB has in restructuring the company, which is largely obliged to take care of both types of restructuring, both financially and businessly. And I believe that the work of DUTB in the near future will focus largely on this area, because we have a large part of our economy in this portfolio that suffers from the same disease that you mentioned. But once again, I most expect that we will come up with a concrete plan or means, with a fund from which companies can get resources to restructure their debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mrs Violeta Tomić will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u128	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear ministers and fellow Members! In the new year, the news of your intention to establish a state forestry company, which will manage the forests with which the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia now operates, echoed the news in the public. In your previous mandate, when you were also in office, as today, you argued that the establishment of a state forestry company is a prerequisite for the rehabilitation of damaged forests. There's no talking about it this year. Sanitation is taking place, so the acorn can no longer be the reason for the establishment, and you are still talking about the establishment of this company, only this time they are the reason for the forestry concessions that expire in 2016. Last year you requested a loan of EUR 72 million for the establishment of a forestry company, ending with about EUR 30 million. You don't mention that this year. However, you promise that the company will pay in the state budget the profits to cover the denationalisation liabilities, which are known to be between €40 million and €50 million. That's why I'm asking you: How do you imagine this time the establishment of a state forestry company? Are you also thinking about a solution that would allow taxes collected in the field of forestry and related industries to be returned directly to the items in this area? Do you believe that the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests cannot be legally empowered to sell timber from state forests and to change its status to this end? What is your vision of forest management and agricultural land management? How will you ensure the continued management of the country with forests and agricultural land without burden on the state budget? Will you include a wider professional and interested public in the preparation of the announced changes in this area? Will the company also be responsible for forest and forestry management from research to product sales? How will you ensure that this will not go into private hands in a few years if a state firm is established? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magi Nutrition will answer. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u130	Thank you, President, and thank you, honourable Member, for the current question. First of all, last year was in a hurry because if we had a state forestry company back then, it would have been easier to help private forest owners. But it is also an experience from last year, and it is that sometimes political will also emerges and then disappears, and because of the absence of the will of one of the coalition parties it was not possible to do so. So now, I think, we are closing the debate within the coalition. Right away, we are starting a debate if you only allow it, including with opposition parties in the National Assembly and also with the interested public, so that we can get to the law on the basis of the starting point, because the starting points are already as much harmonised as possible. At the moment, the state forest is managed by the fund and managed by forest companies. This is a system that, in countries that we want to be exemplary, such as Austria, the German federal countries, Finland and many others, is not like this. There is a special interest – i.e. the state forest is a wealth of state, one of the rare public resources that countries have – that countries directly manage and benefit from. This is also a proposal for the establishment of a Slovenian state forest company. The proposal is to set up a state forest company in the form of a stake. Why not in the form of a public institution? Because then it's much easier for the masters. In fact, institutions have limitations and they have to get government approval for a lot of things, and companies that own state-owned companies are easier to manage. However, this economic company, such a proposal, will be established by a specific law, which also speaks of, inter alia, that the only shareholder of the state, who can then pursue his public interest through a two-track management system. According to our proposal, money will essentially be returned to the budget of the competent ministry for the following purposes. The first objective is to finance the purchase of forests. At this point, we are understated in the country, only 20%. In comparable countries, they have significantly more. With this profit, we have to settle for the old denationalisation law and the compensation for non-use. The risk is what you mentioned. However, whether such amounts will be disbursed or negotiated, the aim of the State is to make them lower or substantially lower. However, this risk is as you mentioned. Further commitments to municipalities and, fourthly, to finance forest-environmental measures that are currently without their funding are still in line with the current law. In our view, what is the objective of governance of state and general agricultural land and forest land? At least there's three of them. The first objective is to increase efficiency, i.e. more realisation, new jobs. This has been achieved in agriculture last year, even by value, with prices lower, 6% and around 13%. We have also grown very, very much in the forest, but the reason is bad. The reason is damage due to the acorn in the Slovenian forest. Last year, we had a 6.3 million cubic meters cut in the forest. But the usual section is below 4 million cubic meters. The second objective is to work naturally both with agricultural land and with forests, so no, for example, a system where all trees fall, but it is determined which trees fall. And the third goal, which is equally important, is to maintain the chain. Nothing helps if we have good work in the forest, or in the country or in private, if we take most of the product out. That's not what this is about. We and I advocate that the owner of the forest must receive a good price for what leads out of the forest, but the aim of the country must be jobs and added value throughout the chain. I must say that here, together with the Minister of Economy, we are also somehow changing the current Forest Strategy, and I believe that the implementation of this strategy will also give new jobs. How to prevent the state forest from moving into private hands is the main issue. We've got two guards. Firstly, we will not transfer the state forest to a society that it will manage and manage; it will still be owned by the state. Secondly, this company can also have by law if the law, as we propose, is accepted by only one member, and this is the state of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mrs. Violeta Tomic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u132	Thank you for this explanation, but I would warn you. In Austria ÖBf, which you mentioned as a comparison, also manages national parks and there are about a thousand 200 employees, creating annually between €15 million and €20 million of profits. However, a comparison remains that in 2013 a good hundred employees in the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia generated approximately 9.5 million surpluses of income over expenditure. In 2014 alone, the concession fund’s revenues are informally above €16 million, despite the acorn. Last but not least, this project can have very fatal consequences for Slovenia and its citizens, because it is Slovenian wood, which is Slovenian oil. We are talking about assets worth more than a billion euros and forests, as we know, cover at least 13% of the area of the Republic of Slovenia. Everyone in this National Assembly, except the United Left, stresses that the country is a bad owner. We in the United Left say that the bad owners of your political staff are, so we rightly fear that the personnel who manage this company will make the company insolvent and that it will land in foreign hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Minister Mag. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u134	Thank you. But unlike the United Left, we have to watch what we say and then do it in practice. We also advocate that the country can be a good owner. In Slovenia we have cases where the country is a good owner and companies pay big profits, from which both the pension fund and some other public services are financed in the final phase. However, if the country has the wrong approach to personnel, it can also be the wrong owner. But it's not a matter of owners, it's a matter of choosing the people who run. So I probably agree that people who manage Slovenian state property must have at least two characteristics. First of all, they're experts, but that's not enough. They must also have a spine to understand that they are managing state property and that they cannot manage it for their own benefit or for the benefit of speculators. As for how some other countries have developed such societies. For example, Austria is famous. There is also a case of individual companies, such as Bavarian, which is considered one more successful in Europe. I think it's been functional since 2005. These companies initially had a two-year or three-year period where they actually learned a new way of managing, and then generally they do business with a relatively large profit because the task and only the work in the forest is such that it makes it possible. The question that comes up later is how this profit is used. Our proposal will be to make full use of all the remaining profits for the Slovenian forest. There is also nothing wrong with making use of part of this profit for environmental measures carried out in the private forest. In any case, money remains in the forest. The question raised by European forestry companies, state or country – for example, in Germany, rural forestry companies – is how to determine their activity. Like, just in Bavaria, that's a good example. Initially, they had both a forestry activity and an additional activity, and they decided to manage it for a greater profit only for forestry. The case of Austria also speaks of the management of parks and the management of tourism activities, as well as of some others. So it depends very much on the configuration of the field itself, and it will be the task of management. And what is interesting abroad is that politics does not interfere with the functioning of these types of forestry companies. Just set your targets. Work must be, at least in our case, sonar, and we expect directors to be able to generate profits. But if not, let them go and come to the people who are capable of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u136	Thank you for the additional explanation, but in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the State Assembly discuss the answer at the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, March 3rd, in the framework of the votes. Mr Danilo Anton Ranc will ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport Dr Stanka Setnikar Cankar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u138	Dear President, Honourable National Assembly, Honourable Minister and Minister! Dear Minister Stanka Setnikar Cankar! The current economic situation shows that in Slovenia we do not have a strategy designed to increase the competitiveness of the economy and trades and that we are losing technological, development and business advantages. The importance of technical education in Slovenia is already declining in primary, secondary and higher education levels. With the introduction of a nine-year primary school, at the primary level of the school, technical and technological content was strongly reduced by 33%. Certain content has been moved to lower classes and, due to the reduced capacity of younger pupils, simplified. The subjects of technology and technology in primary school are intended for only 2 hours in the 6th grade and after 1 hour in the 7th and 8th classes, while in the final 9th grade, that is, in the year when students decide to continue education, there is no compulsory subject of technology and technology. The Technical Education Association has already called for a public debate on this issue in 2006. Although the response from secondary schools and colleges was positive, the previous education ministries unfortunately did not respond. Thus, instead of returning the subject of technology and technology to the ninth grade, the progressive introduction of the compulsory foreign language was followed. As a result of the discontinuation of technology and technology in the final class of primary school, the programme dropped out of content in the fields of electrical engineering, electronics, robotics and so on. In the ninth grade of primary school, it is therefore not possible to attach and synthesize knowledge in the field of science to the content of technology and technology. The absence of this subject in the 9th grade reduces the possibility of developing professional motivations for technical and technological fields. This reduces the interest in education in vocational and technical secondary schools as well as in colleges. The Society for the Development of Technical Education has prepared an assessment of the state of technical education in Slovenia. One of the main proposals was the reintroduction of the compulsory subject of technology and technology into the ninth grade of primary school. The Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts also supported this proposal. Dear Minister, I ask you: Why is it that, despite the advice of the profession, the proposals for reintroduction of this subject have not come true? How will you take action to reintroduce this subject in the ninth grade of primary school? How will you prevent the neglect of technical education and the favouring of social content in the educational system at all levels? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Minister Stanka Setnikar Cankar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u140	Dear Vice-President, distinguished ministers, ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you for the question. Allow me first to present some of the data which, otherwise, justifiably attachs to your concerns, but show that the trend has already changed. The interest of young people in secondary and technical education has increased over the last five years and in the school year 2013/2014 the share of those programmes was almost 40%, 39.7% of all those enrolled in secondary school in the school year 2009/2010 was 36%. It is noted that the interest of young people is increasing. The interest of young people in enrolment in general high school is slightly lower as the percentage of enrolled in high school programmes has decreased. But nevertheless, you are right, initiatives to implement the subject of technology and technology in the ninth grade have already been something. I don't know why they weren't accepted. At the same time, I must say that these were not the only initiatives. There have also been many initiatives to increase the hours of subjects and additional subjects in the field of biology, linguistics and sport, with only a brief light on how far it is dedicated to this area. The field of technology covers 350 pedagogical hours in the primary school programme, and indeed, from 4th to 8th grade, as you pointed out. However, students in the 4th to 6th grade may choose another extra hour of technique from the optional selection class. However, students in the 7th to 9th grade have the option of selecting one hour of technique from the scope of the compulsory selection course, and choose between the following "technical" subjects: electrical engineering, metal processing, wood processing, the processing of artificial material, projects in physics and technology and robotics in technology. In addition, in the course of the school’s mandatory programme of activities, where the content of the subjects is interlinked, each school plans for 165 hours of technical activity. In the ninth grade of primary school, where it is true that there is no longer a compulsory subject in the field of technology, the student is included in 20 hours of technical content in the context of the days of the activity and on the basis of his own selection in 32 hours of one of the mandatory selection items. Nevertheless, on the basis of other proposals, we have also established co-ordination for the curriculum from primary to secondary and higher education, which will address all these initiatives, and this initiative will certainly be discussed at one of the next meetings.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Here you go, Danilo Anton Rance.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u142	I thank the Secretary-General for his reply, and I certainly support this initiative. I think that the best solution would be to reintroduce technology in the ninth grade, because I believe that the number of unemployed from other skills is much higher, while technical education personnel are lacking. I think that, already in primary school, we would contribute to this approach by educating the staff who will be able to create an economic strategy for Slovenia in the future, which should definitely follow development and knowledge in technical and other areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Stanka Setnikar Cankar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u144	Thank you very much for this initiative. Like I said, we certainly support her. On this occasion, I would also like to say that there are also intensive preparations in the field of vocational education. We believe that the appropriate apprenticeship system would also partly answer the question you have asked, and it would all lead to young people deciding for, for the first time, the guidelines they are interested in, and for the second time those where they would find employment.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mrs Nada Brinovšek will ask the Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u146	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear, lovely greetings to everyone in the hall! A new Regulation is being drawn up and thus a network of emergency medical services is being developed. According to the new emergency medical system itself will consist of 10 emergency centres, approximately 27 satellite centres and also emergency ambulances. The system will be run through two dispatch centres, Ljubljana and Maribor, and this certainly means worse conditions and longer response times for rural areas or periphery. The emergency medical service will be newly completely separated from family medicine. This means that all visits to the on-call physician at the primary level are cancelled, and assistance is sought from the nearest on-call doctor of the emergency centre. We have been informed by many municipalities and public health institutions that the preparation project, which should be completed this March, is being carried out in great secrecy. Therefore, our party also made a request for an urgent meeting of the Health Committee, and this meeting was held on 13 February 2015. We have also proposed five conclusions in the emergency meeting, in the sense that all the activities that are taking place at this meeting are familiar with the activities that are taking place towards the preparation of the emergency medical assistance network, in order to keep the current on-call service or emergency medical services in the health care centre, and to inform the Health Committee and the local community before the adoption of the new regulation. I must say that we have not received any answers to our question at this meeting, nor have our conclusions been adopted. So, Madam Secretary, I ask you again today: At what stage of preparation are the regulations and the emergency medical services network? Why isn't the field section involved in the project? Why is all this project going on in such a secret? Will the draft regulation and network inform the directors of public institutions and mayors of local communities? In fact, in the event of the termination of the emergency medical service, it is a major leap back in the 1970s. I'm thinking of the periphery again. And also: Will comments be possible after the presentation of the draft? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Minister Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u148	Thank you for your word. Once again, welcome, esteemed Member! I thank you for the question that, once again, before this respectful assembly, I may say what I have already said on the Health Committee and in the presentation. It is true, as you note, that at the Ministry of Health we are preparing a regulation on emergency medical care. This Regulation is in the final stage, as well as the draft network of this emergency medical assistance in Slovenia, and we are planning, as promised, this draft regulation will be discussed in comments in the second half of March. At the same time, I would like to stress and reiterate that, at the Ministry of Health, we are also planning visits to all local communities that are connected, where there will be an opportunity to discuss and comment on this Regulation, both by all health home directors and by the mayors. I think that the fear that matters would not be harmonised, including a sufficiently long transitional period of the full implementation of emergency medical assistance and the network, is unfounded. Let me say that already in the expert group that prepares both the regulations and the network, including both family medicine doctors, are said to be doctors of health homes or primary care, doctors of specialists, internists, second-hand surgeons as well as others and people from the Ministry of Health. Nothing is being prepared in some strict secrecy or secrecy, but you must understand that first of all it is necessary to prepare expertly substantiated, reasoned proposals that will be coordinated and presented to all actors who are or will be carrying out this emergency medical assistance, and is somehow premature or perhaps even for some purpose has been caused in the public eye by a major problem of establishing this assistance. As you yourself said, we are building 10 emergency centres to be completed this year, which together with two dispatches and one satellite dispatcher centres will enable Slovenians, those with life-threatening activities, to get help much faster, in one place where the most modern equipment and with adequately qualified doctors will be provided with full inspection and care. Let me point out once again that once this regulation is drafted, we will go through practically all of Slovenia, where we will present this policy in local areas and also the network, and then there will be an opportunity. However, I must say that we have been conducting interviews with representatives, directors of health homes and the mayors all the time about how this service will work in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Here's a supplement to the question, Mrs. Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u150	Thanks again. Why did I mention that the project was carried out in such secrecy? We were informed by the directors of the public institutions that, at the end of January, the directors in Celje were at a meeting and were not given any information by the Ministry, even though they requested it. We were told that the Ministry was unsuspecting of warnings. I don't know what's on it. Unfortunately, I must say that even at this meeting, when we had an urgent meeting of the committee on 13 February, also on your part – you will probably agree with me, Your Honor. We were presented with a degree assignment by a member of your project group and after the meeting we talked to participants who felt that this meeting was for them, I could say, even humiliating because experts themselves participated in this meeting, from the President of the Medical Chamber to the directors of public health institutions and mayors, who are very, very familiar with this topic. I really believe that you will agree with me now that we did not get the answers to our questions at that time. As I said, all the conclusions were rejected, but they were completely different. Once again, I'm asking: Will public health authorities be able to comment before adopting the Rules and Networks? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Mary Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u152	I will repeat it again, I don't know, the third or fifth time: yes, because this is why the drafts are made and put into consideration. As I have already said, we will visit, if possible, all areas where we will meet with the competent mayors, health home directors, where we will present the final proposal for an emergency medical assistance network with a regulation. You must understand, and I regret that, honourable Member, I cannot agree with you. At the last meeting of the Committee, until the section builds a whole network based on evidence, arguments, data, does not make the full calculations of both the financing of the new emergency centres and what this means to finance health homes, it would be unfair for the profession or for me personally as the Minister of Health to present some partial, inconclusive or incomplete proposals. [[...]] I think I have made it clear enough that there will be a transitional period and that we will coordinate with everyone, but please only for two more weeks of good patience so that we can fully prepare these matters.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mrs Ludmila Novak will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Dr Anji Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u154	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, I'm interested in: Why did the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities refuse to prepare a law regulating the rights of same-sex persons in accordance with the Constitutional Court decision of 2 July 2009? Your draft proposal for a partnership law has already been in public debate. From 15 October to 15 November 2014, individuals, political parties, civil society associations could comment on the draft law. I want to know: How many comments have been made? Does it seem right to you that, with the support of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, which repeals the existing law on the partnership community, all these opinions, comments and great willingness of the company to regulate the partnership law in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court will be passed on to you? We know that tomorrow we will consider the Marriage and Family Relations Act. With this move, by adopting this law, we will also overtake the Constitutional Court's decision. I want to know: Is that even legal? I'm asking for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State, Dr. Anya Kopač Dark, will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u156	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Mrs Ludmila Novak, thank you for the question. Perhaps we would not limit ourselves only to the partnership community law, which, as you rightly pointed out, had been in a public debate since last November, which then ended. We have not received so many professional comments, especially with regard to the deadline for harmonisation, since the Law on the Registration of the Same-Sex Partner Community would cease to apply with the Partnership Law. However, on the last day before the conclusion or in the last days before the conclusion of this public hearing, we have received a large number of e-mails to our addresses, very similar to what I have started to receive today. As I commented at the time, I am saddened, despite the fact that we have opened this debate in our space in some way with the family code in the referendum, and that, despite the rejection of the family code in the referendum, I have felt that there is no greater opposition to the equalization of the rights of same-sex partners, as regards the marriage relationship, that in the last days of the preparation of that partnership law, it has disturbed me that I have found that this is not so that whenever we have a comprehensive solution on the table, for example, the family code, it bothers me that adoptions. When we make a law where we hope to reach a broader social consensus, we still get comments. The basic objective of the partnership law was to respect the Constitutional Court's decision to equalise the rights of same-sex partners. In fact, the law on the partnership community was identical in the law on marriage. Indeed, the provisions relating to the conclusion and repeal are identical. So we, as the Ministry, who were also the drafters of the family code, saw no reason, professionally speaking, to oppose the proposal of the United Left when they tabled the amendment of Article 2, because it was only about the fact that the law on the partnership community equalizes the rights relating to spouses, but it was a different name. So tomorrow's gonna be the day you have to pour yourself some clean wine again. With regard to illegality and the decisions of the Constitutional Court, let us wait for cases to decide if necessary. In recent days, however, it seems to me that in the family code, when we remember the debate on this document, which had more than 400 articles, there were many issues, not only the regulation of the same sexes, but also the regulation of the competences of social work centres and others. [[...]] It is difficult to judge exactly what people at the referendum refused, because it was then one of the key strategies of opponents of the family code to expand the field of opposition. So, as the minister responsible for this issue, I am trying to follow my values and what I am committed to, respect for the Constitution, regardless of the fact that I am involved in one way or another in the ministry. Human rights are one of the fundamental requirements, and the distinction between people because they have a different sexual orientation, and that they cannot conclude a marriage, has never seemed right to me personally. I hope that we will be able to do this as a society and that we will finally accept that we will see, because I believe that none of what has happened now or has happened since 2009, when the family code began to be drawn up, until 2012, when the referendum took place, will happen. So let's give people rights. Nothing terrible will happen tomorrow when it's adopted, let's hope, this law in this national council.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ludmila Novak, a request for a supplement, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u158	Surely there has been a lot of problems in the family code, and you know very well that the biggest stumbling block was the adoption of children by same-sex partners, and I think this remains the main problem. If anyone, then in New Slovenia we are immediately for mutual respect, to respect human rights. However, adoption of children is not a human right, and other courts have already ruled on it. And the Constitutional Court does not talk about the need to equalize all relationships at this point. You have just overlooked the referendum decision concerning the family code, where this adoption of children by same-sex partners has been the most problematic. I'm interested in your personal opinion: Do you really think that it doesn't matter what kind of community children live in? I want to respect the rights of all people, regardless of gender, race, religious affiliation or sexual orientation, but as a legislator, I am responsible for the lives of minors. And research also convinces me that it is still important for children to live in what kind of community they live in. Here I cannot overlook the rights of underage children to live in an orderly family. Therefore, with my left hand, it seems very unrealistic to me to overrun the centuries-old tradition and values of the Slovenian people. You supported this, someone else suggested it, but it saddens me that you are still responsible for this area. I am particularly saddened, however, that you have also supported the reduced debate, the reduced procedure. So there will be no debate at all, except for any amendments tabled. And that seems to me to be a shortening of democratic rights.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Ms. Anja Kopač Dark will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u160	Thank you. One thing always surprises me in some way. In fact, there was no adoption in the family code that fell at the referendum. Why not? Because the compromise we made at the time was that you can adopt only your partner's biological child, which is already in law and we have 12 such decisions. So the family marriage fell because of something that wasn't. And that's what I'm talking about. It's never good enough. The original version of the family code was identical, it was an equalization of marriage. The agreement, due to public hearing, resulted in discussions in the National Assembly, in the final adoption of a compromise version which spoke of the partnership community and was not allowed to adopt, except in the case of a biological child, so that the child does not have another parent or parent, as was the case in the Family Code, and which was already decided by a decision of the Supreme Court, on the basis of which the Ministry confirmed during that period the first adoption into the same-sex partnership community by another parent. That's all it was in the family code. But people don't deal with details and then they believe us in politics, and they go to a referendum and they reject this family code, eventually with a broader intimidation strategy. In the end, I answered that social work centres would take children if people didn't do it. It's just intimidation and nothing else. And now that we haven't, let's be honest, reached within the coalition agreement I believe that the family code is what's right. [[...]] And here you said that we are responsible for the lives of minors to live in orderly society. Yeah, we have to try. It's just that, like I was then, today I believe the same thing: it's not just form that matters. Quality of relations is important. It can't just be a form of relationship. A traditional family, one way or another, is always an important quality of relationships. And the only thing that matters to us too often as society is that the form is that way and that way, and then everything will be fine. And I don't want that debate to happen if we're just saying that there's something wrong with the traditional family. No, there's something wrong with everyone, so form is as irrelevant as it is. It's about quality. And we legislators, the executive and legislative branches of power, but we need to create conditions so that these different families can live in a way that they have the potential to take good care of their children. However, the legislator cannot prescribe what kind of family the family should be and that everyone in this family should be happy. As for the reduced procedure, it was a decision in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u162	I agree with you that it's not just form that matters. But the important thing is that the child lives and has the image of a father and a mother. This is important for family life. I'm afraid that this thing will go further because of certain activists, that we won't be fathers and mothers anymore, but parents 1 and parents 2 and things like that. This is what citizens fear in the future. In this way, we will end up with all those who have a different opinion on this issue, potential defendants and convicts. Well, you've kind of supported the short-term procedure. You didn't object to him. You haven't even told me whether you think it matters whether the minors live or not you even say it doesn't matter. [[...]] However, our debate is also limited, and even though I know that I will not succeed, I propose that this be discussed in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, March 3rd, in the framework of the votes. Dr. László Göncz will ask the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Ireni Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u164	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. All in attendance, all in attendance! I'm going to talk about the content that's already been exposed today, so it's hot. Dear Minister Irena Majcen, on Friday, when you visited Prekmurje, you were able to learn about the fact that in the last days of the population in the municipality of Lendava and also in the wider region, it was almost at the same time disturbing a number of alleged contentious cases. Again, a question arose about the potential risk of natural gas production by means of a hydraulic sandstone breaker method in the vicinity of Lendava. A few days later, there was a spirit of discovery of the disposal of disputed substances, according to some information of toxic chemicals in two closed wells, and then a potentially uncontrolled penetration of gas from the ground also near the site. As regards the latter, the public has been informed that the measurements of the professional services have shown that the uncontrolled flow of gas has not been detected during the measurement period, but are still investigating the matter. In the event of the disposal of several tonnes of illicit chemicals, Petrol Geoterm has started to verify, and an appeal is to be lodged in this regard. You, too, have taken a categorical position in Lendava in this regard, but I ask you once again regarding the possible illegal disposal of toxic substances in this area: How will the Ministry or the competent service take action in this regard? With regard to the so-called cracking method, I myself have asked four questions over the past three years, which I have most often received very general, substantively incorrect answers. Otherwise, it is true that the method of production of natural gas, which they wish to re-use in the area of former oil fields in the vicinity of Petišovci and other settlements, is not new in our area, since it has been used several times in the past. There, the population and the local community, where unemployment exceeds 20%, have no interest in making investments more difficult, which in addition to a new energy source can also create new jobs, but the most important requirement of all the inhabitants of the region is that such production does not pose a risk in terms of the health and safety of people and the environment. Madam Minister, I ask you: Are the concerns of the public concerned and the civil initiatives set up in view of the economic impact of the potential new pumps and the safety of the technology mentioned above justified? I also ask: Will you require more in-depth analysis from the supervisory authorities in this regard in order to ensure the integrity of the investment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u165	Thank you. Ms Irena Majcen, Minister for the Environment and Space, will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u166	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Member, Dr László Göncz, thank you for the question. I would like to say that the Inspectorate for Environment and Nature is 26. 2. received a notice that over one of the wells or its surroundings during its rehabilitation carried out by Nafta Geoterm, d.o.o., they were to dispose of the waste that was then buried from the ground. In 2013, Nafta Geoterm received a new owner and also renamed Petrol Geoterm. Therefore, the inspection commenced by collecting the first notifications from that company. A mining inspection was also informed, mainly because of the facts, as it was noted that gas and oil were being released. I would like to say that the inspection is expected to take place within 14 days, it will also be possible to shorten the time limit and that such procedures under the environmental protection law are subject to the wage-enhancing principle. This means that if it is known about the cause and is found in the control, it is paid by the originator, or by the landowner, which means that this verification of the indication will be carried out whether what is not supposed to be buried there is actually carried out. On the other two questions, however, I would like to make the following interpretation. Public considerations and civil initiatives must be taken into account in any environmental intervention. This is one of the basic leaders of the Environmental Protection Act. Derogations in operation or new findings after the end of the operation of the facility which adversely affects the environment may unfortunately occur at any time and anywhere. However, the task of the competent environmental services is to respond effectively to such cases in accordance with legislation. In doing so, I would like to point out that the rule we enter into procedures for obtaining or assessing prior consent to environmental protection permits or the environmental protection authorisation process itself. Of course, our ministry or we in the ministry are not competent for procedures to regulate mining methods. Therefore, I mention that hydraulic fragmentation is a process, as you yourself have already mentioned, which was first performed in the early years of 1956, and since then at least 28 times, which – this is now a claim that may be held today and will not hold – so far no negative effects on the environment have been detected. The most recent circumstances, this is a possible illegal purchase of chemical waste, not only related to hydraulic stone crushing technology. For uncontrolled gas penetration, however, it is necessary to determine first whether it actually comes from the wells or the surrounding wells where the hydraulic fracturing procedure was used — the total number of wells in this area of 160 — and whether the vortices were adequately repaired. The public's concerns about the safety of hydraulic sandstone breaking technology are not yet an expert conclusion, as it is not confirmed that the past use of this technology has caused uncontrolled gas leakage. The placement of new gas pumps using hydraulic sandstone breakers will be dealt with in accordance with the Environmental Impact Assessment Regulation and this Regulation entered into force. Seven. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. To this end, a preliminary environmental impact procedure will be carried out and the environmental impact assessment will result in a request for an environmental authorisation for those activities. All these procedures will be conducted at the Environmental Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, but I must say that for past hydraulic fracturing procedures, when there was no basis in the regulations, there were no such applications, and this role is not yet in Ars or in the Ministry today. However, if the application is to be made, these procedures will have to be carried out. Arso runs procedures for a new central gas station in Petišovci for gas treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u167	Thank you. Dr. László Göncz wishes to make a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Madam Minister, for some concrete answers. We are pleased that an inspection report will be submitted within 14 days of possible toxic substances. It is also important to mention what you said in the end about the role of the Slovenian Environment Agency, as far as fracking is concerned, but let me also mention the fact that there is very inadequate legislation, as well as the different interpretations of European institutions, and many other things deny the concept of this content. At the end of the follow-up, I will not, however, require a procedural decision to address this point at the next meeting of the National Assembly, because this has already been submitted by my colleague Trčko, but I will support this proposal mainly because of the fact that in this sensitive issue and rather unknown content despite our case, as you have already said, positive cases have not been observed in the past, in fact, some major negative impacts on the environment. However, because this is not excluded and because it is a matter of ghosts, I think it would be only right for a broader debate to take place, but I will not propose it because it has already been proposed. Since you may not have finished the last sentence, I would like to ask you one last time: Does the analysis carried out by Ars also provide for a slightly more in-depth analysis of this issue? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u169	Thank you. Ms Irena Majcen, Minister for the Environment and Space, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u170	Thank you. That's right, Dr. László Göncz, the honourable Member. Gas cleaning is a process for issuing an environmental permit and this authorisation has not yet been issued. Petrol Geoterm submitted an application for the issue of an OVD for the operation of a device capable of polluting an environment of greater magnitude, i.e. the IPPC OVD for the natural gas refinery, which will be subject to a technological process for the treatment of crude gas and base oil separation. In the context of the legal procedure, in January 2015 the public disclosure of the draft environmental authorisation was completed, which included some comments and received three written requests for entry into the procedure. Arso must first decide on the requirements for entry into the procedure and issue appropriate decisions on the recognition or non-recognition of the status of a party and only then can we proceed with the procedure. In order to clarify, it should be noted that the procedures for drawing gas in the application are not covered and are therefore not subject to that administrative procedure. There is also no procedure for hydraulic fracturing in Petišovci on Ars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u171	Thank you. Mr Ljubo Žnidar will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u172	Thank you, Vice President. Dear ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! On the occasion of the review of the rural development programme for the period 2014-2020, I see one weakness and I would like to ask Minister Dejan Židan a question in this regard. Slovenian agriculture has a relatively poor ownership structure of agricultural land. Above all, I think that Slovenian agricultural land is extremely fragmented. With the strategic objective of increasing self-sustainment, it is essential to improve the ownership structure, which is to prepare better conditions for agriculture and food production alone. The solution is in a compost of agricultural land, which, along with other agromeliorative measures, offers a good, better place to produce food itself. The rural development programme in the previous period, from 2007 to 2013, would be supported as a self-investment supported by 100 % subsidisation. In the 2014-2020 programme this is not the case or I note that this can now be done together with other measures, and I believe that this is going to be a significant step forward in the area of agricultural land. That's why I'm asking: How will this option be financed for the period 2014-2020? What exactly will the investment regulation contain in this regard, in particular with regard to the destruction of agricultural land?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u173	Thank you. The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnetic Nutrition will answer. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u174	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Member, thank you for asking. The fact is that the rural development programme of Slovenia was adopted a few weeks ago, making us among the 23% of the programmes that were ever given decisions. The other programmes are stuck at the level of the European Commission, different Directorates. In the new programme, it is necessary to say that we have been directed by the European Commission that the Commission, as a stand-alone measure, is no longer possible, but that it must be combined with other agricultural land measures, while at the same time we have had a very well-founded initiative of the investor for some time, namely that we have a joint action for agromeliorations and commissions, which from their point of view means removing administrative barriers, evaluating project documentation and reducing the duration of investment. So both, on the one hand, the guidelines, on the other hand, have united investors' wishes, and in the new rural development programme we have these kind of operations that are united. The Regulation on measures to improve competitiveness and cooperation in the agricultural, food and forestry sectors of the Rural Development Programme of the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2014-2020 is now in preparation. Right now, we're in the middle of cleaning up administrative barriers. Today, for example, we have removed relatively many obstacles from the Supplementary Activities Regulation, and we are now removing them. What is important is that the draft regulation, which will go into public debate, is like a co-financing rate, and this is what is most interesting for the municipalities, the mother of 85% of the value, which includes the Commission. Why isn't it 100 percent? Since the direction was often expressed both in Slovenia and outside Slovenia in order to be co-financed by the investor at least one small part of the measures financed by European and Slovenian money, it is only then clear whether the interest is genuine or is only a matter of interest which is essentially intended to carry out operations but is not of real substantive interest. This will be the case in the draft regulation, but of course this will be the subject of public debate and the Ministry will then listen to the stakeholders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u175	Thank you. Member of the Commission, Mr Ljubo Žnidar, requests that the reply be completed.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Minister, for that answer. We're on the same page. This is said to be a stand-alone measure, not to be financed on its own, but in an agromelioration group of 85%. It is said that if we take operationally how it will happen on the ground, that we will be able to register with other measures or investments, and that this percentage of the auctions will be – because it is usually, say, 70 % of the agromelioration, and if we take 70 % of the 85%, there will actually be co-financing of investments or incentives for mixing somewhere at 50% of the current 100 % value. This is said to have reduced the support of the Commission by about 50%. I just want the next answer. I believe we follow the regulations and directives of the European Union, but we know that in operational implementation agromeliorations cannot be implemented before the Commission actually does. In short, there will be no operational implementation complications and that the agromelioration/compression programme will also be set up as a measure to be implemented simultaneously, not as a condition that agromelioration is carried out first. In short, some condition will not invalidate the execution of the commotion. That's the only answer I'd like: Will this investment regulation cover this?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u177	Thank you. The word is from the Minister of Magic. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u178	Thank you, Madam Vice President. In fact, each individual measure will be financed by 85 %, including the Commission within this package. So it does not go down to 50%, but 85-85-85 is added up, and the total amount is 85% of the total value of the operation. So, as a recognised cost, the recognised cost is 85% within the entire operation. Of course, it's just a suggestion. If we talk differently, the ministry is, of course, ready because the amounts are about the same. Why is it a set? Because in most cases it follows step 2, and this makes life difficult for investors, these are the municipalities, because they double the documentation, they have double the cost of documentation. I would also like to point out that, at this point, the Agricultural Lands Act is also being amended in one part. I think we have already put it into public debate in this part of how to reduce the number of procedures and the number of papers. So this will be a set with which we hope to see a larger structure, but of course this will be a process that will last and last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u179	Thank you. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u180	I believe that the rural development programme for 2014-2020 is an extremely important document and that there is a further operational investment regulation on the implementation of this programme in both the coordination phase and the preparation phase. I think it would be very good to have a public debate on all these shortcomings and the additions that this programme still needs, and thus to improve the rural development programme for the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u181	Thank you. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 3 March 2015, in the framework of the votes. Now, Mr Primož Hainz has the floor. The question will be raised by Dr Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, and by Dr. Petr Gasperšić, Minister of Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u182	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! The investment in TES 6 raised a lot of dust throughout its construction. In this mandate, we have therefore already set up an investigative commission to examine the political responsibility for the type of irregularities involved in this construction. However, let me ask you a question after all. In 2012, the National Assembly adopted the Law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for TEZ 6 loans to the European Investment Bank of EUR 440 million. The law establishes a requirement to sign a contract with which the TES undertakes to comply with the specified guarantees; for example, the total investment value of the project will be lower than the final value of a billion 302 thousand, the completion of the project by 2016, with regard to gas emissions, determined exactly how much it can or cannot exceed, the return on capital should be at least 9% and so on. On this basis, in 2012 it joined the signing of a relationship agreement relating to the replacement block project of 600 megawatts power 6 at the Šostanj Termoelectrica. In Articles 9 and 10 of the Treaty, TEC has clearly committed itself to inform the Ministry of Energy, as well as the Ministry of Finance, in the event of non-fulfilment or derogations from these guarantees, without delay. He also undertook to submit a commitment report to both ministries by 30 June of the current year for each previous year. In this regard, I am interested in: How has its implementation been monitored since the signing of the Treaty to date? Did TES, d. o.o., send reports in accordance with Articles 9 and 10 of the Treaty? Has the Government acted in accordance with Article 12 of the Treaty? Indeed, we have been able to understand from the numerous debates and press releases so far that the first breach of the Treaty took place in 2013 when the price of coal was increased by the annex to the annual contract. This was followed by an increase in investment value to almost a billion 450 million, the reasons for which are not yet explained. This was followed by a silent forecast of an increase in CO2 emissions and, finally, an application for the operation of block 4 after 2015. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u183	Thank you. I give the floor to Dr. Peter Gaspersic, Minister of Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u184	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Member! With regard to the control of the contract governing the relationship with respect to the replacement block project of 6 power 600 megawatts at the Termoelectric power plant of Šostanj, Article 10 of the TEC is required to submit a report on the fulfilment of the obligations and guarantees of that contract to the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of Finance by 30 June of each previous calendar year. The last such report, under the provisions of this Treaty, was sent by TEŠ, d.o.o. on 30 June 2014, to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space and to the Ministry of Finance, which was in the time of the previous government, for the previous period since 31. 12. 2013 In this report, the then Director, Mr Peter Dermol, stated to the Ministers that, apart from the value of the project, estimated at EUR 428 million, 544 thousand, all other commitments under the Relationship Agreement have been fulfilled. Article 9 of the Treaty on the regulation of relations provides that, in the event of a derogation from the obligations and guarantees set out in the contract, TEC must immediately inform the Ministry responsible for energy in writing and the Ministry responsible for finance. Such a report was transmitted by TES Director Peter Dermol on 24 May 2013, in the first month following his appointment, because otherwise the TES should pay the contract fine to the Republic of Slovenia and the management of the project should withdraw without the right of departure. The Ministry of Infrastructure has closely monitored the implementation of the project and communicated its requirements to the TEŠ management. In particular, it has been active in relation to previous versions of the NIP 6 investment programme's innovations, and we have always requested that a document containing the correct input assumptions for coal prices, electricity sales prices and emission voucher prices be prepared. To this end, a meeting was also convened at the Ministry of Infrastructure in December 2013, where the then Minister Samo Omerzel requested the representatives of HSE, TEŠ and Premogovnik Velenje to coordinate with each other on all input data for the preparation of the NIP 6. As already stated, TEŠ regularly sent reports in 2013 and 2014 in accordance with Articles 9 and 10 of the Treaty on the regulation of relations. However, the government did not impose a contractual penalty, since in this case the management of TEŠ should have been waived, which has always been amended for other reasons. So that neither objectively nor subjectively in those given phases was responsible in a way that immediately after its performance would also be waived. However, the latest report submitted to the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Infrastructure on 20 February 2015 shows that the value of the project will be exceeded by EUR 428 000 457. The base price for coal will not be 2.25 euros per gigajoule, but will be exceeded by estimates for the period from 1. 1. 2015 to 31. 12. 2054 rated at the maximum buying-in price of 2.75 euros for gigajoule. They shall also report that the project will be completed in order to obtain an usable permit by 15 February 2016. Profitability per capital is also assessed. The requirement was, however, that at least 9% should be achieved. This report shows that the NIP 6 programme, which was adopted and coordinated on 30 January 2015, calculates the return on capital of 8,09 %. This is mainly due to lower selling prices of electricity, higher coal prices and higher value of investment. They also state that the CO2 emissions of existing blocks and block 6 will not exceed the values for each year set out in the amendment of the investment programme number 5. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u185	Thank you. Mr Primož Hainz will make a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u186	Thank you very much for your answer. I have a feeling that Dr. Dusan Maramor had some information about these numbers, and I'd like you to fill in with your work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u187	Thank you. I give the floor to Dr. Dusan Marble, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u188	Thank you very much. I would only add so much to the fact that the last report is now in coordination. We have some additional questions. Therefore, I must say that we do not yet have all the information on the basis of which certain sanctions relating to Article 13 of this Treaty could also be applied. Of course, I have to attract the Minister of Infrastructure to see who is responsible for this situation when changing leadership. And since leadership has changed so many times, it is necessary to see objective and subjective responsibility, since the government can impose or forgive or also suspend or not suspend leadership. We are still gathering information and will then, in agreement with the Ministry of Infrastructure, also react where we will consider that the derogation from the contract was objectively such that it was not respected.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u189	Thank you. Mr Daniel Krivec has the floor to ask the Minister for the Environment and the Space of Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u190	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Madam Minister for Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, I ask you about the regulation on waste water treatment. We all know that in the pre-accession negotiations Slovenia has adopted the conditions for the treatment of municipal waste water and has submitted itself to all these directives, but has also given itself some autonomy in a time-consuming sense, as it has accepted obligations to be fulfilled by the end of 2017 and in areas with special requirements by the end of 2015. This Regulation provided, in the initial phase, that the triangular well was a sufficient cleaning plant and this was included in the preparation of the Regulation. Later, when this Regulation was amended, this three-storey well came out of the Regulation. The Emissions Regulation itself states that agglomerations having less than 50 units must be equipped with cleaning appliances in all individual houses and that the responsibility for these larger cleaning plants must be assumed by local communities and for smaller cleaning plants by individuals. In view of the fact that a three-story well means more than a few percent less wastewater treatment than a small cleaning plant, I am interested in the following questions: What is the current situation in the area of decommissioning and cleaning of municipal waters? How much of Slovenia already fulfils the conditions of the operational programme for decommissioning and cleaning of municipal waters? Do you think that it makes sense to invest large amounts of private individuals in small cleaning appliances if this reduces the organic burden by more than 20 % compared to multi-layered wells? Do you plan to supplement the operational programme for decommissioning and cleaning of municipal water, such as the extension of those deadlines, or do you plan to amend and define a multi-layered sewage treatment plant in the regulation? I am asking this because all neighbouring countries know such arrangements, and only Slovenia has been so "smart" that it has removed the three-point discharge from this Regulation, and requires all owners to arrange and replace existing three-story dams with small cleaning plants. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u191	Thank you. Ms Irena Majcen, Minister for the Environment and Space, will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u192	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Member, Mr Daniel Krivec! The operational programme for decommissioning and treatment of municipal waste water was adopted by decision of the Government 11. Ten. 2010 and published on the Ministry’s website. An analysis of the implementation of the Operational Programme for the Decommissioning and Cleaning of Municipal Wastewater was carried out at the time of the last amendment of the operational programme and was adopted in 2010 and relates to the state of affairs at 31. 12. 2008 The assessment of the equipment of the settlement areas under the basic programme of the public sewerage operational programme was also carried out for the situation on day 31. 12. 2012, this is based on data reported by public service operators, but this information is not verified by this programme. It shows the situation by section of the operational programme. It would thus be said that in this basic programme, which deals with settlements with more than 2 000 population units, the connection to channels is 79% and the connection to cleaning facilities is 70.3%. It can also be subjective, but you could say it's quite satisfactory. While in the second part of the programme, which provides data for 50 to 2 000 population units, i.e. for smaller settlements, channel connectivity is barely 28% and connection to sewerage is 22.9%. We do know, however, that the equipment with individual cleaning appliances is even lower. Slovenia has not yet complied with the requirements of the Municipal Waste Water Cleaning Directive and the operational programme 2013-2020 also provides for a programme of EUR 125 million. Our assessment is that even after the implementation of this programme Slovenia will not meet the conditions, unfortunately. Investing in the water sector to meet the requirements of the Union acquis and to meet the investment needs identified by Member States in excess of those requirements is therefore a specific objective 1, namely, reducing water emissions due to the construction of infrastructure for the decommissioning and cleaning of municipal waste water. In the context of this specific objective, further investments should be made in the area of decommissioning and cleaning of municipal waste water. This year, at the Ministry, we are planning a revision of the rules on the decommissioning and cleaning of municipal waste water; this is a regulation governing the emission of substances in the discharge of waste water and municipal treatment plants; a regulation regulating the emission of substances in the discharge of waste water from small municipal treatment plants; a regulation governing the separation and cleaning of municipal and rainfall waste water and, on the basis of these rules, the adopted operational programme for the decommissioning and cleaning of municipal water. The adoption of the amended rules is included in the Government's work programme for this year. The Government's work programme also includes the Regulation on the Emission of Substances in Disposal of Municipal Wastewater, which will bring together both the Regulation on the Emission of Substances in Disposal of Waste Water from Small Municipal Cleaning Devices and the Regulation on the Emission of Substances in Disposal of Waste Water from Municipal Cleaning Devices. The operational programme is already in inter-resortmental coordination so that the planned reception is within three months and the regulations will need to verify that the three-restricted dams meet the conditions and can be included in the implementation. As part of the analysis of implementation and preparation and coordination of draft amended rules and operational programme, a verification will be carried out of the identification of the areas of residence on the basis of current data on population burdens according to the Central Population Register and on the basis of data on the number and types of buildings where there are no continuously declared residents, where there are certain activities contributing to the joint burden of the urban waste water settlement area. An overview of the state of implementation of the regulatory requirements will be carried out [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] and in the area of dispersed settlement and the assessment of financial resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u193	Thank you. Mr. Krivec requires a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u194	Thank you for this presentation of the regulations and programmes of the Government, but I asked you very specifically two very important things that actually grieve all the inhabitants who live, I will say, in the scattered part of the settlement or in the part where there are no cleaning facilities. In particular, your response is of particular interest to people living in certain areas with special status, specifically Triglav National Park, where individual facilities need to ensure that they essentially cover the implementation of this Regulation by the end of this year. So I would like to hear your specific answers on my point of view: Why did the Regulation avoid considering the triangular discharge as a cleaning plant, which all other European countries take into account? Since this imposes additional costs on all property owners living in a dispersed settlement, the existing three-storey wells have to practically destroy and install the cleaning plant. I have not heard this answer, and I believe that we will have to refer to this subject further. It says: What do you think about this regulation, which is only our Slovenian, is not European? Are you considering extending this regulation? Because 2015 is this year and I strongly doubt that all local communities will ensure the implementation of this Regulation. You said that under 2,000 population units are covered by the Circus of Slovenia 20%. Given that the investment cycle is currently practically frozen, that budgets are empty, I would like to know: How will the Ministry intervene in this direction? Because otherwise local communities and municipal service providers will be in breach of the regulation, which means they will pay fines. [[sign for the end of the debate]] , also for individuals living in this area. Therefore, these two questions need some concrete answer and are expected by those who are looking at us.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u195	Thank you. Ms Irena Majcen, Minister for the Environment and Space, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u196	Thank you. I would not be able to answer the question of why this option of triangular cemeteries came out of the regulation because we did not accept it during my ministry. However, I have already stated that we will have special care in preparing this solution, and that is why I will not make any promises. At the same time, careful verification will be made of the eligibility of the requirements for areas of residence with a total burden of less than 2 000 population units exceeding the requirements of the Council Directive under Slovenian law and possible solutions for individual decommissioning and cleaning arrangements in areas where the construction of public sewerage is not prescribed. In this context, all initiatives and proposals from municipalities, public service providers and professional and general activities will be examined. Some of these initiatives also refer to the re-examination of the use of triangular dams. Only on the basis of a careful professional examination of the above will specific amendments and additions to the rules and consequently the operational programme be proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u197	Thank you. Mr. Krivec, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u198	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I request that the Minister's reply be discussed at one of the following meetings. However, I would like to point out that, at least in the end, she has somehow understood that the issue is important, and I hope that we will not think about it for too long, because 2015 is this year. The municipal budgets are being prepared and I strongly doubt that all the requirements that this current regulation requires of local communities can be successfully implemented under this Regulation. On the other hand, it is important enough to give a signal quickly enough to the people living in these areas, who have some special status, whether there will be an extension of these deadlines or whether, what I have asked for an answer, a three-story well will be reintroduced as a possible cleaning plant, which all the neighbouring countries have, as I said, already installed. However, since I have already mentioned the Triglav National Park, I can point out this from one point of view, because, on the one hand, we have a ministry to implement the Wastewater Cleaning Regulation, and on the other hand, we have the Triglav National Park Act, which was adopted by the majority in this Parliament, which requires the State or the guardian of this Act to co-finance the construction of municipal equipment of 85%. What will we do in these cases if we do not correct this Regulation or in terms of extending the deadlines or in the sense that the regulation changes in a more lifestyle and avoid infringements of the regulation affecting individuals and the local communities in this area? On the other hand, there will be pressure to remove certain areas from the park because they cannot meet the conditions of the regulation imposed by the same Ministry. I therefore propose that the debate be held here, because things are very linked and can escalate in terms of the problems that will arise from the visas of those laws which define these specific areas and the regulation imposes on them the solution of these problems by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u199	Thank you. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 3 March 2015, in the framework of the votes. Mr Miha Kordiš will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Stanka Setnikar Cankar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u200	Thank you so much for saying that. The area of co-financing of the doctoral study in our country has been unregulated since 2013. I want to know: How and when will you address this pressing problem for the generations that have studied with it, starting in 2013, 2014 or starting in this year? In 2010, 2011 and 2012, generations of Ph.D. students were able to draw on the so-called Innovative Fellowship Scheme, partly funded by the European Union through the European Social Fund. The indicative amount of these grants, which was allocated to doctoral students at the University of Ljubljana – so much for the show – amounted to €8 million in 2010, €7 million in 2011, €4 million in 2012 and €4 million in 2012. However, before we came to finance through an innovative scheme, the area was regulated through the Regulation on co-financing of a doctoral study and through public calls for co-financing of a postgraduate study in each study year. However, in advance, the innovative scheme was far from complete because it shamelessly introduced some ideological stratification, who is entitled to these funds, who is not entitled to these funds. Thank God this problem was pointed out by a series of student resistances and, last but not least, the situation has been rectified. However, funding through such a controversial innovative scheme is significantly better than at present, because we are faced with the fact that the capacity of social mobility is being abolished, that the possibility of meritocracy can be eliminated, because you are simply a doctoral study, with the exception of those who are young researchers, people can no longer afford it unless the depth of their pockets allows them to do so. In the long term, this must, of course, be regulated by legislation, co-financing of a doctoral study as a public service, in the Higher Education Act. In particular, I would like to point out that, at this point, I am interested in solving the problem here and now, but not what the Higher Education Act will someday solve. One possibility is, for example, the preparation of a co-financing regulation for a doctoral study. In short, I want to know: How and when will you address the pressing problem of co-financing a doctoral study for the generations that started with it in 2013, 2014? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u201	Thank you. The Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Stanka Setnikar Cankar, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u202	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I thank Ambassador Mihi Kordiš for the question that really addresses the subject that is extremely pressing. Let me say that in the 2015 budget rebalancing, this topic is indeed covered in connection with the financing of young researchers, as under the programme of these young researchers implemented by the ARRS Public Research Agency for 2015, the budget foreseen for this programme is 21 million 445 thousand. Thus, these are funds that can be used to a large extent by young researchers, who are practically without exception also doctoral students. You also mentioned an innovative scheme for co-financing a doctoral study to promote cooperation with the economy and address current societal challenges Generation 2013. Let me say that this innovative scheme has actually expired during the time of my predecessor, Dr. Pikal, so I can only provide you with the information I received from the Ministry. So, funding for a doctoral study for a generation of doctoral students 2013-2014, and now this generation has advanced to the second year, unfortunately it is no longer possible because in February, if I have the right data, 24. 2. 2014 – said, during the time of my predecessor – the call was made when the University of Ljubljana, the University of Maribor, the University of Primorska, the University of Novi Gorica, as well as other gathered higher education institutions, were delayed in submitting applications for co-financing of a doctoral study under this programme Innovative schemes for co-financing of a doctoral study to promote cooperation with the economy and to address current societal challenges, generation 2013. I do not know the reasons, but the applications were not submitted and therefore the doctoral students of Slovenian universities were in fact excluded from the planning of the co-financing scheme of studies. The answer to the second part of the question of how we want to resolve this really important and pressing question, however, is given that we published on 16 February 2015 a proposal for the concept of the Higher Education Act and in the framework of this proposal the funding of the doctoral study is discussed in Chapter 4 – Financing, in the 11th measure and covered in the 31st proposal, which states: "The way in which the public service funding for doctoral studies assumes that the 3rd degree programmes, namely research and doctoral programmes, are co-financed by public higher education institutions under the research programme 'Lamsam'. Chapter 7 also suggests that internationalisation in higher education and research activities is recognised as key to strengthening strategic cooperation and partnership.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u203	Thank you. Mr. Kordesh is demanding a supplement to the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u204	Thank you very much. I will start with some explanation why universities did not submit applications for further funding in 2014: because they have estimated that the innovative funding scheme is no longer sufficient to allow students to complete this study in a doctoral study with these funds. That's why they didn't let themselves in on this story. And I'm kind of surprised that you're not familiar with this, maybe one piece of information. As far as the Higher Education Act is concerned, systematic regulation of all of this. Look, I'm not going down at this point. [[…]] As I mentioned at the beginning of my question, I am interested in solving the problem here and now. And if I reduce your answer to the point that touches this here and now; what I understand from this is that the generation 2013, 2014 are left to themselves, but for their resources we cannot get, we cannot expect. As far as 2015 is concerned, all bets on the adoption of the Higher Education Act; a law that has a very long beard, we know what a terrible story follows. By the way, no attempt to prepare the ZVIS has started so badly, so very willingly and has not so much angered the public as the attempt of the MIZŠ a good week ago. This is how we can expect the 2015 generation to remain dry. In short, 2013, 2014 potentially 2015 – there is no funding for these people!
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u205	Thank you. Minister Stanka Setnikar Cankar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u206	Thank you very much. It is true that the concept proposal has received a response, but I am sure that because of the current funding, the partners that are united in coordination will find the opportunity and also the time to prepare a proposal – this time we are only talking about a proposal for a concept – the proposal of the Higher Education Act, because I expect us to reach agreement in this particular area that you have highlighted – financing. I think we are bound by the decisions of the Constitutional Court and also by the issue itself. If anything, this higher education certainly needs a stable funding system. To the extent that I have been able to look at the proposals and comments that have reached the Ministry by the deadline, in all these comments, there is a clear expectation that the specific area of funding will be resolved by ensuring stability and also by addressing the problem that you have highlighted. We have prepared a timeline, we are ready to step up the action on this proposal of the concept, and I have no doubt that we will reach agreement on a plan that we have also presented with the partner, that is to come to the bill, from the proposal of the concept to the proposal of the law, until the end of this calendar year.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u207	Thank you. Mr. Kordish, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u208	Thank you very much. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the reply of the Minister and this subject be discussed at one of the forthcoming meetings. But the reason is not only in the problems of the 2013 generation, 2014, potentially also 2015 doctoral students who finance their doctoral studies from their own pocket. During this period, we are dealing with whole generations that have fallen out of some meritocracy regime, from some social mobility regime, through which we could contribute according to our abilities, not by our financial backs, to society and, finally, to finding our happiness. In addition, it is worth noting that when we talk about doctoral students, we are not just talking about young researchers, we are also talking about those who are not involved in the system of young researchers, which is why it is not important to get the ARRS and the numbers associated with this. For the first time, we are not talking about these people, and for the second time in preparing this issue, I have opened my budget once again. Now, I may have confused some item, but the number I have in mind is not that young researchers have €21 million at their disposal; the number that was written in my memory is that 3 million euros less is available to young researchers than was previously intended for them. But, as it is said, maybe I was wrong, maybe I was looking at the wrong item, in any case it seems important enough for a further discussion to take place, both because of the developmental perspectives offered by the doctoral studies, as it is because of the fate of individual students or generations who are denied an option here and are closed to them, given their pure material condition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u209	Thank you. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 3 March 2015, in the framework of the votes. Dr. Franz Križanič asked the Minister of Justice mag. Goran Klemenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u210	President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, Your Honor! Slovenia has no luck with insolvency proceedings. In Pahor's Government alone, we have twice amended legislation to speed up these procedures and to ensure that the company that has encountered such problems has a market-oriented programme, restructured or transferred ownership rights quickly enough and works further. We've been very successful here. The large percentage of banks' assets in 2013 resulted in a dramatic increase in the number of bankruptcys, by 37 %. The banks clearly found an additional motive as the main creditors in our country, had sufficient liquidity and expected certain effects on the real estate market to accelerate bankruptcy. At the same time, there has been a wave of phenomenon or there has been a day when how many frauds are linked to these insolvency proceedings to the detriment of the weakest, those who have been employed in companies have been played in different ways. One of them is that, in fact, the funds they paid, for example, for rents in working homes, owners and the management of a formerly solvent and now insolvent companies, were simply shed for their needs. The second is to draw on procedures indefinitely and to make it difficult for people who are already economically weak to face an additional blow and then continue to be placed on the labour market. For example, if a car is forced to sell, it is difficult to find a new job in a place that is not exactly where it is located and so on. That is why, and also because of a variety of other things that I do not have time to open here, of course, the question of mortgage loans and possible insurance of weaker or employees is also raised if such credit is established. For all this, I would ask the following question to the competent minister: What measures is its Ministry of Workers Protection implementing or planning in insolvency proceedings?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u211	Thank you. Mr Mag has the floor. Goran Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u212	Madam President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Members and Members, honourable Member Dr. Krizanic! I'm gonna start like you started, just a little different. Perhaps, yes, Slovenia is actually unhappy with bankruptcy legislation, it is probably not just about luck, it is also about how it has been able in the past to adapt rapidly to the changed situation in this area. Both within the meaning of the legislation and in the sense of the judiciary facing it. Dear Member, you are aware of this because you were, if I am not mistaken, in 2009, also a minister in the then Pahor's government who was changing legislation. This legislation changed at the time and later in other governments, often with a focus on greater protection of workers' rights than the most vulnerable groups in bankruptcy proceedings. 2009 legislation introduced an irrefutable legal presumption of insolvency, which greatly reduced the procedures so that workers could also claim bankruptcy and so on. In a later novel, since 2013, you have continued to pursue the aim of improving the position of the creditor, in the case of workers, especially in the case of workers; for example, on the proposal of the unions, you owe the exemption prior to payment of the initial costs, after which priority claims were extended, i.e. compensation for unused leave for the current year. Furthermore, the legislation has classified a number of labour claims, such as salaries, salary compensation, injury compensation at work and so on. But that I will not now talk about the law, which is briefly called ZFPPIPP, and is one of the most complicated laws in this country, because it has changed so many times, is the fact that, frankly, I was informed in the negotiations on the social agreement, where the trade union side has pointed out that these claims are of course priority, but in the law we still have absolute priority claims, and above all the claims and in the end, due to the specificity of bank mortgages, it happens that workers are not paid, regardless of the fact that their claims are prioritised. I admit that, in principle, in these discussions on the social agreement, I was in favour of the proposal proposed by the union, which was eventually excluded from the social agreement because there was no uniform opinion between employers and trade unions. My next steps are: however, it is necessary to know that different claims have to be weighed here. If, for example, certain claims were to be given absolute priority over the mortgage, the question could arise that credit could no longer be obtained by the company, which could again be problematic. If I cut it short. With regard to this law, there is one quite active, I think not quite, very active interdepartmental implementation group, which contains all stakeholders, not only from different ministries, but also from other institutions, from the economy, from the courts and so on, which also reports to the European Commission regarding the implementation of the so-called ZFPIPPP. At one of the following meetings of this group, I will propose that we address the issue of further labour claims with a clear order that we are in principle more inclined – that I am personally inclined to expose them as more of a priority. [[…]] What their professional proposal will be, however, is another matter. This month we also accepted an invitation to a union meeting at the Ministry. Although ZFPPIPP is not in our normative programme for this year, because the last report of this implementation group was that the law is already so complicated that changing it now can be problematic. However, certain things are opening up that need to be changed. I would add that what can be done without law, but we have already done in one part. In fact, in January this year, I signed a regulation that reduced for half the rate of managers in so-called empty bankruptcys. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u213	Thank you. Mr Tomas Lisec will ask the question to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u214	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Dear ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues! This government or coalition has written in the coalition contract at point 5/2 of the coalition projects: "On the basis of an analysis of the current state of affairs, an implementation plan with a timeline and a budgetary basis for the execution of an individual project shall be drawn up. During the 2014-2018 term, the Coalition will make a priority effort to implement the following projects..." And point 1 reads: "Project number 1: Comprehensive renovation of buildings in state, municipal and private property (sustainability building), holder of the Ministry of Infrastructure." Mr. Secretary, I believe you are aware that there have been two invitations in the past. One, I think that in September 2012, when Minister Cernač committed more than 50 million European funds not to remain in Brussels, but to be used effectively, and especially quickly, he made an energy rehabilitation call for local communities to build buildings. Since there was a lot of interest, over 200 applications, 110 projects were selected, then – I think in March 2013 – he published an additional call for energy rehabilitation of local-owned facilities. There was still a lot of interest, although then the next minister who took over the task, Minister Omerzel, apparently had some temptation to either stop the project a little bit or maybe what some of the clues were, even somewhere else. In short, I want to know: How are you aware of the implementation of these two public tenders? And of course: How do we proceed in the framework of the coalition contract? How are the budgetary resources for 2015, 2016 and 2017 likely also 2018 and how many resources? Is this a matter of state resources or is it, given that we have already entered the new European financial perspective, that you are thinking in particular about efficient, rapid and successful use of resources in this area? As you probably know, the European Union's demands in the area of energy renovations are very difficult, we all know what we have to do by 2020, and the construction sector is somehow stagnating and it could probably use some kind of invitation to tender so that it can grow a little bit. However, if it were the rehabilitation of buildings owned by a country or by local communities, I believe that all users would be happy with these calls, because sooner or later this would probably also bring a lower price for services. In short, for the introduction: I'm interested in the energy rehabilitation of buildings, timelines and financial aspects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u215	Thank you. Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, will answer. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u216	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, honourable Member, Mr Tomaž Lisc, for the question raised. It is true, as you said, that the energy rehabilitation of buildings is one of the key forms and ways both for the start of the economy and, on the other hand, for the achievement of energy targets by 2020 and, of course, for the reduction of energy costs. You mentioned two calls in the past, a past financial perspective that is actually running out, which was designed to rehabilitate local communities' buildings. Here, the Ministry of Infrastructure acts as an intermediate body and as far as I have information, all projects are actually going according to the plan, so we expect financial resources, including European funds, to be available by the end of 2015. It is true, on the other hand, that the new financial perspective also involves activities both within the framework of a priority government project and other measures to involve additional financial resources. Thus, the next financial perspective provides for around EUR 200 million for these purposes of energy recovery or efficient use of energy. As it is said, we have also provided adequate means for the future to promote energy recovery also through the Eco Fund and the cohesion funds already mentioned under the priority axis, the development of a low-carbon society, which will also be used to this extent for the energy rehabilitation of public sector buildings. However, this scope of these funds is not enough to achieve energy efficiency targets, and we will have to make sure that we combine these resources with private means to the greatest extent possible. This means that, in the first place, we will encourage energy contracting projects, i.e. a public-private partnership where a private investor invests resources in those energy efficiency measures that are sufficiently profitable. However, in order for the buildings to be fully renovated, the part of the investment where the recovery periods are too long will be stimulated by cohesion grants up to 20% of the total investment. In order to ensure that the implementation of the projects under the principle of energy contracting is to the fullest extent possible, we have also published guidelines on the implementation of the energy contract in public sector buildings published on the Energy portal website at the Ministry of Infrastructure. Our goal is to restore 3% of the public sector's buildings every year, and in this context they will play a priority role in the state building, i.e. the smaller government buildings, as we have a binding objective in this segment to restore 3% of the area each year, which we also have to prove to the European Commission. For buildings where the energy contract is not possible, and for buildings under special arrangements such as cultural protection, we will devote the remainder of the cohesion funds, and a programme will be set up for this segment, which will provide incentives that will not be refundable, provided for up to %, which will require investors to carry out the project. [[Incomprehensible]] Finally, I should like to say that the energy rehabilitation policy will be designed within the framework of the long-term reconstruction strategy of the buildings under preparation and within the framework of the Energy Efficiency Action Plan by 2020, which is in the stage of cross-cutting coordination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u217	Thank you. Mr Tomaž Lisec, Member of Parliament, requests that the reply be completed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u218	Thank you. I'll start at the end. You said the strategy is being prepared by 2020. I hope that the strategy will soon see the light of the world, that by 2018 we will not think about what and how, and then 2020 will be here, and the possibility of drawing on European funds, which was also one of the issues, will go on the water. I understand that private investors manage or acquire these funds through the Eco-Fund. But I am particularly interested in this second segment, which you have touched a little bit, in the reconstruction of the state-owned buildings – I agree. However, I wonder if there will also be an invitation to tender at the local level. So I'm mostly interested in: Will there be an invitation to tender in the coming years? In your opinion, how much funding are you planning for these calls, or will these funds be provided through European funds, or will the country be the one trying to help local communities with this call? I must say that when I walk in the field, all the mayors are bragging: we have saved this kindergarten, we have rehabilitated this school, we have rehabilitated this health house, and it is European funds. The first call was made in such a way that 100 % of the European funds were made and the second call was for partial co-financing by local communities. In short, I'm interested in this local part: Can local communities expect a call this year or in the coming years? As I personally know, there are still some or many health homes, schools, kindergartens that need energy rehabilitation, and, on the other hand, the desire of local communities as owners of other facilities, such as firehouses, for the country to give them a hand through European funds and, as I have already said, end up paying a lower price for services. In short, I'm particularly interested in the local part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u219	Thank you. The text is by Dr. Peter Gaspersic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u220	Thank you very much. We also plan to continue these measures for local communities. I cannot tell you when the call to continue these activities will be published, nor do we yet have a precise percentage of what we will spend on this part. However, it is a fact that, as we say, we want to activate as much investment as possible, we will reduce this share of co-financing with European funds and increase this share of the so-called own participation or participation that will be provided under the energy contract. In short, these calls will continue, but not the share of co-financing as high as they were in the current perspective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u221	Thank you. Mr Jožef Horvat will raise the question to the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Maramor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u222	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, Minister of Finance Dr Dusan Maramor! Dear colleagues and colleagues! Members of the New Slovenia - Christian Democrats, together with the SLS Group in the previous reference to the National Assembly, have tabled a proposal for a tax double into the legislative procedure, namely the amendment of the Law on Taxation from the Income of Legal Persons and the amendment of the Law on Income. Both proposed novels were adopted in the National Assembly and since 1. 1. 2015 has raised the threshold for flat-rate taxation of the smaller taxpayers of legal and natural persons from the current 50,000 to 100,000 euro of annual taxable income. The flat-rate taxation for craftsmen and small businesses follows the objective of administrative decommissioning of smaller business entities. The economy urgently needs such measures to deal with basic activity and development instead of delayed and costly administrations. However, this objective cannot be fully achieved without an increase in the threshold for compulsory entry into the VAT system. Only by raising this threshold to €100,000 would the administrative burden of lower annual turnover operators actually occur, and the necessary level of control by the tax authority would be reduced. We are reminded of this by economists as well as by the taxpayers themselves. New Slovenia has already twice addressed the Government with an initiative to draft amendments and to supplement the Value Added Tax Act, as it is necessary to obtain the consent of the Council of the European Union at the same time in order to implement this amendment. We have not received an answer to our initiative. Mr. Secretary, Marble, I ask you: Has your ministry already begun the process of preparing amendments and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act? In particular, we are thinking of Article 94 of the Act, which will increase the threshold for compulsory entry into the VAT system to EUR 100,000 per year of taxable income. And: What is the time frame for accepting and implementing these changes? Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u223	Thank you. The word is from the Minister of Finance, Dr. Dusan Maramor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u224	Your Honor, thank you so much for asking. I must also say that the aim of the Ministry of Finance is to reduce the administrative burden that the economy, in particular, as well as the economy, has on tax matters as much as possible and in this regard we have undertaken a specific action plan to reduce these administrative burdens. In view of your question, however, I must say that we have examined the proposal you have made for amendments to the Value Added Tax Act. We have some serious concerns about him. First I'd tell you what these concerns are, then I'd try to explain why. First of all, this proposal would reduce the impact of VAT neutrality. This is the basic principle of VAT, and then I will explain. In this case, Slovenia of all EU Member States would then have one of the highest VAT entry thresholds. With the adoption of the proposal, some 17,000 taxpayers would have the option of withdrawing from the VAT system, and then I will also tell you what the consequences are, and in our opinion, the adoption of the higher threshold for flat-rate taxation of smaller taxpayers under the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons and the Law on Income alone does not in itself constitute an obligation, even less, I would say, more of a need to raise the threshold for compulsory entry into VAT. What if I go after these individual problems that we see with this change of law? Neutrality first. The principle of neutrality requires that there is no accumulation of tax liability, which means that the VAT system allows a taxable person to transfer the entire tax burden over VAT deduction to his customer. It is not, however, that due to the prohibition of VAT deduction, part or all of VAT should be transferred to its own costs or for this part to reduce its profits. The operation of the principle of neutrality is most affected by the VAT exemption in the supply of goods and services by a taxable person who is exempt from VAT, for example, a small taxpayer, the added value is not taxed and the added value of all the previous stages remains taxed, as this taxable person does not have the right to deduct. This results in tax accumulation in the costs of a taxable person, which is intended to avoid the application of the principle of neutrality. As I said earlier, Slovenia would have, in this case, one of all members of the highest VAT entry thresholds. The comparison between the EU Member States shows that only the United Kingdom and Italy have an established threshold for small taxpayers above EUR 50 000 according to the level of the VAT system mandatory entry threshold in January 2015. That is, the United Kingdom has £81,000, that is EUR 102 000, and Italy has €60 000, Ireland and France have a higher threshold for certain supplies only, i.e. Ireland has an established threshold of €75 000 only for the supply of goods, and France has €82 000 200 for the supply of goods, food and beverages at final consumption and accommodation facilities. With the threshold of 50 000, Slovenia now ranks among the Member States with a higher threshold for entry into the compulsory VAT system. In addition to Slovenia, the threshold of 50 thousand is only Latvia, Romania has 49 thousand 700 and Slovakia has 49 thousand 790. Now, how about these pledges? These would be around 17,000 who would have the option of withdrawing from the VAT system. A raise of the threshold, it is said that 17,000 would have had them, 1700 would probably have been used and I might have added, because time does not allow me to receive by taxpayers an initiative to reduce the threshold for compulsory entry into the VAT system, because of the unfair competition of businesses with the same business activity, which avoid becoming VAT taxable. These are the problems we see.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u225	Thank you. Member of the Parliament, Mr Horvat, requests that the response be completed.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u226	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Thank you too, Dr. Marble, for your answers! Of course I accept them. But why do we, in fact, insist on raising the threshold for compulsory entry into the VAT system? Among other things, because we somehow listen to similar signals from a small economy, by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, and also because only by raising the threshold for entry into the VAT system would there be virtually a flat-rate tax burden. Look, a few hours ago, the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Cerar, spoke of good economic growth last year. We both know why there has actually been economic growth last year, and we are, of course, also afraid and wondering what it will be like this year. If we find that the economy has got some more oxygen, a little more momentum, a little more momentum, then we estimate that it would also be good for the legislator to give the economy some extra acceleration to breathe more easily to create new jobs. We think that this would be a good debate with representatives of the small economy, and we think that if you want to be more confident with the economy by the government, and if you want to be by the legislator. The economy needs a country, the country needs an economy. I think that a partnership should be established here, based primarily on more confidence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u227	Thank you. The Minister of Finance has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u228	Thank you very much. I have to say, I agree with that. In 2015, we plan an analysis of the functioning of the flat-rate taxation system and the design of possible changes that would make the scheme of simplified taxation of the smallest business entities more attractive to taxpayers. There's no doubt about it. In this context, the volume of traffic and compulsory entry into the VAT system should be examined. So, in the context of broader flat-rate taxation. With a comprehensive approach to analysing the existing system, the MF wants to help address the identified shortcomings exactly as you said. This is said to be a more competitive business environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u229	Thank you. Mr. Horvath, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u230	Thank you, Madam Vice President. In my procedural proposal, it is precisely because of the Minister's replies that the National Assembly decide to discuss at the next meeting of the National Assembly, in order to open a debate on the Value Added Tax Act, on flat-rate taxation, which in fact Mr Minister has indicated. I think right now is the time to open this debate, to optimize tax legislation by the end of the year, which would then enter into force with 1. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. For all these reasons, my procedural proposal arises. This option gives me Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, so that we can talk in the National Assembly, so let us open a debate on the optimisation of tax legislation. I think this is crucial, and it is very urgent right now that we do something positive in the direction of unloading, especially administrative and tax, for the Slovenian economy. We need too many new jobs, we need about 60 000 new jobs right now. How will we reach them? They will be opened by the economy and we need to give it a little more oxygen, relieve it taxfully, of course, also with regard to administrative matters. The Slovenian economy, especially the small economy, which is the pillar of the Slovenian economy, has many good ideas, has new products, can open new markets, but it needs help here on our part, by the legislator. I therefore propose that we hold this debate in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u231	Thank you. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 3 March 2015, in the framework of the votes. Now he's got the word "magic." Margareta Guček Zakošek, who will question the Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Stanka Setnikar Cankar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u232	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished ministers, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, distinguished Minister of Education, Science and Sport! The promotion of the establishment of study centres as carriers of regional development of tertiary education was based on the national higher education programme adopted in 2002. The NPVS stressed the importance of maintaining and strengthening the network of higher and higher education centres in certain regions, including in Savinia, which will also be supported by the State in the input of local communities or economies. Support for the establishment and development of regional higher education and innovation centres has also been established in the 2007-2010 programme, with the role of centres in the creation of a decentralised network of higher education. The centres would thus develop into higher education institutions, which would also be financed by the State if the conditions were met. Such an example is also the Public Institute of Regional Study Centre based in Celje, which was established in 2002 by all 32 municipalities of the Savinja statistical region and the Regional Economic Chamber. Despite the guidelines set out in the NPVS, the State has never systematically regulated the areas of regional development of higher education, both in terms of legal status, independent higher education institutions having a public institution and not in terms of their funding. In the case of the Savinj region, the municipalities have completed their part of the task of setting up and have also done more than a decade of support. Although the State granted several concessions to such higher education institutions, these were often dependent on the will of the ruling political options, not on the human resources needs of graduates of a particular field of study or the public interest of individual local communities and regions as a whole. The concept of the new law provides for private higher education institutions to establish private legal entities and public higher education institutions to be established by the Republic of Slovenia. That is why I am addressing you with the following questions: What is the attitude of the Ministry towards regionalisation of higher education in areas where higher education is developed at the initiative of local communities or the region as a whole? How will NPVS 2011-2020 support the concept of regionalisation of higher education? How will the new law on higher education regulate the status of independent higher education institutions with a public founder other than the Republic of Slovenia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u233	Thank you. Minister Stanka Setnikar Cankar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u234	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you very much for the question, which is certainly up to date and related to the issue of the legal regulation of higher education. At this point, I could not give you a concrete, precise answer, because the Ministry is actually in the stage where the concept of the new law of higher education is just under discussion. Are these starting points already defined in this concept by the working group that prepared these starting points, including on this issue? Partly: yes. In fact, most points of these starting points also contain what will be established throughout the whole area of higher education, whether it is a public or private institution, whether it is the founder of a state, a local community or another natural, legal person. The aim of these starting points is to have a higher quality of higher education, the aim is internationalisation, and the aim is a European comparable quality system. That is why I think the issues that you have raised are in close connection with the debate that will take place. What are the planned activities? Since 16. 2. In public debate or on the Internet of the Ministry, the starting points for the preparation of this new law on higher education are available. 3. 3rd, this is tomorrow, the first wider coordination session. This coordination also, of course, includes representatives of private organisations, are representatives of higher education centres set up by local communities, and thus will be given the opportunity to make their comments directly available to them. When we first met on how to achieve some quality move in the area of higher education, it was precisely the initiatives to include more students studying in these institutions, who have, you correctly concluded, the working status of private institutions, and how to include the representatives of the operators, i.e. those institutions, to a sufficient extent. The initiative was adopted to ensure their representation. In fact, the question of how these quality higher education institutions, public or private, are distributed across Slovenia and thus regionally deployed, has not yet been placed at these starting points. I know the problem, and I know that many times the issue of the network of higher education institutions is also fully linked to the legitimate interests of local communities, which, as you correctly say, in many cases were also financiers or at least co-financers. For the time being, the source chapter, which covers the area of financing, defines, of course, only the position on funding from the State budget. I am confident, however, that there will also be views in the course of the debate on how these funds are being complemented either by the funds of local communities or, above all, by private funds. Surely, then, in the coming weeks and months, the exact answers to these questions can also be found. But I would like to link this question of yours to another part, which is that part that concerns more professionally oriented programmes. I think that'll be one of the priorities.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u235	Thank you. Mr Zvonko Lah will ask the Minister for the Environment and the Space of Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u236	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Hello, Minister. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I will ask the Minister of Infrastructure and Space with regard to spatial legislation. In fact, in Slovenia we have some 10,000 black buildings, about 300,000 buildings, built in violation of regulations. We have more than 100 municipalities that have not yet adopted municipal spatial plans, the deadline was 2009. Then the preparation of these OPNs lasts from 5 to 10 years, they cost enormously. In preparation, we have over 30 space regulators who have to give guidance, consent, conditions, and I don't know what else. Yesterday we saw an example from Strunjan, where there are only one valley as many black buildings as other countries have throughout the country. The fund of agricultural land is supposed to have 3,000 black buildings in the municipality of Izola. And if we compare this with the price of these spatial acts and the duration or long-standing preparations, we can find that we have anarchy in the country in the area of space and spatial regulation. Previously, Mr. Minister of Finance was here, answering questions, I think there is a very big problem with us, how to create new jobs, value added and more inflows to the budget, both state and municipal budgets. All these facilities, which are not legally built or against regulations, have not paid a municipal contribution or any other contributions, which would bring a great deal into the municipal budget and the state budget. Many would, if they could legalize the facility, obtain a building permit, also be able to start an activity and create added value, but they can't. Therefore, I ask you, I know that the Government has adopted both the Spatial Planning Act and the Construction Act in its normative programme for 2015 until March 2016. You told the committee that this legislation is far from being tested on the ground. I would appeal to you to do this as soon as possible and thoroughly, and then I'll give you an extra hand. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u237	Thank you. Ms Irena Majcen, Minister for the Environment and Space, will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u238	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Member, Mr Zvonko Lah! At the Ministry of the Environment and Space, on the basis of the completed first stage of the validation of the adopted baselines for reform of legislation in working groups and for the development of more detailed, including alternative solutions in the light of the responses of stakeholders adopted, we are preparing more extensive material to support the most appropriate variants of the proposed solutions, as well as the preparation of a specific text of the articles. We plan that the content on which the text of the articles will be based will be confirmed and coordinated by summer in the discussions to follow, followed by the nomotechnical processing of the content, as well as the public debate and inter-sectoral coordination of the text of the amendments. In the Government's work programme, as you are already mentioning, the adoption of a proposal for amendments to the Construction of Buildings Act, the Spatial Planning Act and the Law on the Placement of Spatial Arrangements of State Interest in the Government is foreseen in October 2015. Such a broad debate on these changes in laws is needed mainly for reasons that the amended legislation touches a large number of people not only of the municipalities but also of citizens, not only of investors in production capacities, but also of their neighbours, and therefore this broad debate is urgently needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u239	Thank you. Member of the Parliament, Mr Zvonko Lah, requests that the reply be completed.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u240	Thank you. See, in Slovenia, municipally equipped building sites are several times more expensive than in neighbouring countries. It takes investors five to six years to get a building permit. This is probably why foreign investments in the Czech Republic are more than five times higher than in Slovenia – investors are fleeing. We have a system so that the investor must first buy a plot, design a project to obtain a building permit, and then wait for him to even get a building permit so that he can build. That's outrageous! No country has that. We hear that in Serbia, too, a building permit can be obtained within three weeks. At least in three years. We have a bunch of objects, including economic ones, such as tourism in the walls, older buildings, legalisation costs 5,000 euros, and the facility is worth 100,000 euros. Who's going to do this? That's why I want to know: What's this new legislation going to be? How long will it take us, after the laws have been passed, to draw up municipal spatial plans? When, then, will such investors begin to obtain all the permits under this new legislation, and when can this legalization begin? I think that time will run out of time for us to go bankrupt before we set these conditions so that this can be created, these conditions that are normal in all European countries. So I would appeal to you that you might try to pick up the shortcut and resolve as soon as possible the most urgent.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u241	Madam Minister Irena Majcen has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u242	Dear Member, Mr Zvonko Lah, your claim that building permits are required for five years is likely to be true, not all. According to statistics, time is 21 days after the completed application in administrative units. To allow building permits to be issued at a shorter time interval, of course, it is clear to all those who have obtained such building permits. However, I agree with you with this finding that time is different in different areas, and I agree that this must be done. That is why this broad debate is about reaching out to all those stakeholders who are in the process of issuing a building permit or planning. I would also say that planning is extremely important. The last such large implementation of spatial acts was there in 1985 and since then, of course, many of the facts have changed since then, which are now present in the adoption of spatial legislation, that we are not just talking or mentioning that, of course, after entering the European Union, we have made a lot of commitments and that there are a lot of co-legislators involved in the procedures for the adoption of spatial legislation. However, I agree, and I have already said on the Committee that in the municipalities that have adopted the UN, these consents should also be taken into account when issuing building permits and not again for these investors. This will certainly be covered by this legislation. For the rest of the congregations, however, I hope that it depends on how active they are in this area. In fact, there are more congregations where there is room for construction, that is, unwalled building sites. Those with the adoption of the UN do not rush, while in the municipalities where there were few of these lands in fact, the interest was very great after the adoption of the municipal detailed plans, and they are possible from the adoption of the UNOption on the municipal councils – 4, and the congregation has also saved this task for 5 years. I have such a case in the nearby congregation of Makola. There will indeed be more work to be done on all sides, but I am sure that the legislation adopted on all these open issues that you have asked yourself will not solve them. It will only allow someone to come to a solution if they show an interest in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u243	Thank you. Member of the Parliament, Mr. Zvonko Lah, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u244	Given the importance of the issue, I propose that, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, we hold a debate in the National Assembly, if this is, of course, voted. Not to understand, Madam Secretary, that this is some criticism to you. It's a subject that's been going on for more than 10 years, 20 years, but now we're in a situation where there's really nothing left to wait for. We need to include all the potentials that are in our people, to enable the simplest possible way for people to create added value, to survive, to pay contributions and taxes, to get this country out of the situation it is in. But I'm afraid you're going to have a lot of obstacles on this road, because the space regulators are going to be huge, and they're going to fight all four of them. This was also the attempt of Minister Chernač to simplify certain things, immediately all those designers, the producers of spatial acts resisted and apparently stronger than the government or the ministry. I fear that this will be the case now, so I think it is necessary for all of us, together with the congregations, to find a solution that will be quick, effective. This will also provide data for both real estate tax and NUSZ collection, REN is catastrophic. When legalized, geodesic recordings would be made, and a great deal of this information would be obtained, statistics would be regulated, and then it would be easier. But people need to be given some hope, and somehow they need to be supported in their creativity. Now, in all ways, we're just suppressing it, obstructing it, and I don't know, people are desperate in the field. We note that there is less income, less VAT, and of course the country needs more and more. There is no need for financial resources from the budget, there is a need for strong will. Where there is a will, there is a way. Let us find it and simply adopt this legislation in the form they have in neighbouring countries. Otherwise, this legislation will have to be compatible with other countries sooner or later, and others have a very simple, very fast way to go, and if we had one, I think the economy would have a different breath, even those self-employed. Now that's terrible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u245	Thank you. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 3 March 2015, in the framework of the votes. Now Mrs Jelka Godec has the floor to ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Stanka Setnikar Cankar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u246	Thank you very much, Madam President. A nice greeting to the ministers and, of course, to the minister! Any change in legislation, of course, comes with approval and criticism. So you took a bite in the Higher Education Act a while ago, today you have repeatedly stressed that it is a concept and not a final version and that you allow, of course, all the comments, ideas and so on. But I would still like to know: What are the main points of this concept of the new law? Who participated in this concept or design? If I touch on specific points, I am interested in the following: 64 new proposals. In the second proposal, you are talking about how higher education institutions can be public and private. I want to know: Where do you think the potential international university to be predicted will be, and how do you think it will be financed? The following thing; extraordinary studies shall be discontinued: What forms of studies are then envisaged if exceptional studies are discontinued? Where, then, will these outstanding students we know today be classified or placed? What good is there, or what improvement is foreseen here? The next thing is, of course, funding from higher education public institutions. You're talking about three pillars: the base pillar, then the scientific research and innovative pillar, and the development pillar. It is a matter of somehow 85% of funding to the core pillar, 10% of scientific research and 5% of development. I want to know: What does this mean for research activity in Slovenia in general? Is there a merger now? As you have already announced, you will join the Higher Education Act and the Research Act: Is that an extension or is that? Of course, the most pressing issue is the return of tuition. I want to know: In what way did you imagine this or what improvement is there for you? What does this bring to the students or not bring? I want to know: Why are you increasing the number of members in the NAKVIS world by not being sided by, say, student organisations, but by the Government? Why such a change? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u247	Thank you. The Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Stanka Setnikar Cankar, will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u248	Madam President, honourable Members, I thank Mrs Jelka Godec for the question. True, the Law on Higher Education is a complex law, for it governs an area that is diverse both by operators and by areas. You asked the question who was involved in the drafting of the law. So let me be very clear from the outset that we did not submit a proposal for a law, but that the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport has prepared a starting point. Our view was that we wanted to coordinate with representatives of different stakeholders about the starting points, and then probably not much work would have to be put forward to write a proposal for the Higher Education Act at harmonised starting points. So we are still talking about the starting proposals, with a working group being appointed, a narrower working group. At the first meeting of the coordination of the representatives of the wider stakeholders, it was somehow found that we need an operational group to prepare these starting points and mediate them for discussion. This working group was chaired by the State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Dr. Peter Macek. In addition, the Ministry itself was the director of the Directorate for Higher Education mags. Mirko Stopar, further Dr. Alenka Braček Lalić, who is a member of the Cabinet, has experience because she worked in the field of accreditation, Head of Legal Service Slavič Čebular Musar. On the other hand, Dr. Lučka Lorber was involved, the pro-regnant of the University of Maribor, Dr. Blaž Zupan, who is a former prodecan and professor of one of the universities of the University of Ljubljana, Dr. Jadran Lenarčič, director of the Institute, Jožef Štefan and Dr. Pavel Zgaga. The latter attended one of the starting sessions, and later he did not participate in foreign residences. Therefore, this working group has drawn up a proposal for a starting point for the preparation of the Higher Education Act and has set some of the documents already adopted as starting points. First of all, the National Higher Education Programme – 2011-2020, as well as the national programme for research and innovation strategies in Slovenia. Therefore, only in the coming days, in particular tomorrow, would a wider coordination be made up of representatives of public university operators as well as representatives of private higher education institutions, students, public, private universities, trade unions and institutions directly involved in this area, in particular NAKVIS, be identified in these views. But it's true that we're 16. 2. As mentioned earlier today, this proposal has been made publicly available and has been requested by all to submit written comments by 26. 2. However, we have accepted them until today, so that we can talk about this at this first coordination meeting tomorrow. What are the concrete new solutions to the proposed law? I'd say it's the starting point. In particular, the following objectives aim to increase the autonomy and responsibility of higher education institutions in order to strengthen scientific research activities, in order to increase the level of internationalisation, which has been identified as one of the fundamental issues in order to increase the diversity of Slovenian higher education, to ensure quality development, to increase the degree of internationalisation as it is too small and, in particular, to increase accessibility to higher education. We anticipate that, in cooperation with the stakeholders I have mentioned, we will come up with proposals that will allow for agreement at the starting points and further work in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u249	Thank you. The MEP, Mrs Godec, wishes to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u250	The supplement is essentially to repeat the question once again and ask for concrete answers. That's what you said to me who was involved. I think and I hope that you too believe that if you included the beneficiaries, i.e. students, these starting points could be a little less problematic and we could have done a lot of things at this stage, and so a lot of dust raised what I asked earlier, the return of tuition. I want to know: How did you imagine that? Why is this something better, or would it help to improve public higher education? At the same time, I'm curious: What does this funding, which is included in these three pillars of funding, mean for the research activity? This thing. And then: Where will you place an international university to be predicted? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u251	Thank you. Minister Stanka Setnikar Cankar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u252	Thank you very much. That's right. You were specific. I must say that now I can only speak of some positions that have not even been debated because we have been talking about starting points. Let me point out who you are, of course. As regards the return of tuition, we believe that this could make the study more effective. We are aware that this raises a number of questions, but I stress that this is not the introduction of tuition, this is not the introduction of the voucher system. This is one solution that we will discuss, which would require, under agreed conditions, that those who fail to complete the study, let's say, at the first stage, not even 10% of the total credit points should be paid back. As regards research activities, it is true that a debate has already been opened in the working group whether it would not be appropriate to include areas relating to research and innovation in this umbrella Higher Education Act and this working group has been positively identified in this view. However, as I said, there is now a decisive debate in coordination and I cannot prejudge what will be the decision. With regard to NAKVIS, this area is, in our view, one of the fundamental areas of accreditation and institution-building, a number of issues. The solutions offered are again for consideration, and we have also received comments from NAKVIS, directly related to the management bodies. We will examine them thoroughly and try to find a proposal that will be closer to the views of the same national agency. Discontinuation of an extraordinary study – perhaps as an expression, but an alternative is offered in a full and partial study. This partial study will be offered to all those who are employed, here you could find parallels to the previous extraordinary study, as well as to those "regular students," who would choose this study for some other reason. However, with regard to the placement of the international university, I am convinced that the solutions offered by this coordination will also have a defined position, and how should any of the universities become an international university.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u253	Thank you. Mrs Vojka Shergan will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u254	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Minister and Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Given that I have been contacted by the Slovenian Rural Development Society, which brings together thirty-three Slovenian local action groups dealing with the countryside and the LEADER programme, the following question would be addressed to the Minister, Mr Dejan Židan. The control of applications by the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for agricultural markets and rural development for LEADER measures has been completely liberal and has caused major problems for local action groups and project promoters since the Agency for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development has taken over this control. According to the opinion of this agency, which is heard in the public, this is due to poorly prepared requests for co-financing of projects and the operation of these local action groups, but no one points to the problem of the unpreparedness and ignorance of the LEADER programme by the Agency’s controllers. The way in which the Agency controls and such assessments are, in some ways, inadmissible and require responses, as the applications were prepared in accordance with the applicable guidelines issued by the Ministry itself and in October 2014 by the Agency, so that by then most of the applications have already been placed under control. The LAG, as we briefly call these local action groups, notes that the main problem in not knowing the LEADER rules is those of the Agency. Therefore, matters need to be settled immediately. The LAG Association within the framework of the Slovenian Rural Development Society has once met with you, Minister Židan, and presented this issue. An expert committee was set up to find a solution, but the result was that nothing could be done. The Slovenian LAG is not satisfied with this because the problems created by the transfer of control to the Agency have not been resolved; on the contrary, they have become even more significant, even as a result of the Agency's reaction. In this regard, I would now like to ask the question: Why can't these problems be resolved in cooperation with the Ministry and the agencies? And there's another question. The Agency for Agricultural Markets has intervened in the control of projects or applications for LEADER projects by means of its decisions to approve LAG projects, so that some beneficiaries are faced with the return of co-financing of these projects – I will now cut here a little short. However, with regard to the above, I would like to ask: How acceptable it is for the Agency to intervene in this way in decisions [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u255	Thank you. The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u256	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear Member, once again a beautiful greeting to Members of Parliament and Members and others present! The fact is, as you correctly note, that the control system of the LEADER programme has changed. The LEADER programme, which is a regional one, was to some extent also based on trust and on regional initiatives and regional governance. However, the LEADER programme itself in 2013 was reviewed by the certification body, which is the Office for Budgetary Control, which has also identified shortcomings, which requires that these shortcomings be addressed. Part of the rehabilitation programme was an increase in the number of people on LEADER who carry out checks, the preparation of amendments to the Agriculture Act and the transfer of controls to a certified paying agency, that is to the agency of the Republic of Slovenia, which supervises the field of agriculture. I must say that from the point of view of the certification programme, the review in 2011 showed that the measures carried out by the Ministry were effective, as there were no more irregularities identified and then the Authority identified them as appropriate and effective. But it is true that some things have changed for LEADER or LAS themselves. There are more checks, some checks are also in advance, but this is all in accordance with the certification instructions that the Agency for Agricultural Markets has. I would like to say that after the transfer of controls, we also organised LAG education for the Ministry and the Agency. I am aware that even at this moment, the desire to meet again is to see if there is anything else that can be done to make life easier and this meeting is already agreed on for next week. Maybe two or three more information you'll find interesting. At the moment, there are 147 applications at the Agency as regards local action groups, 21 have already been paid, 16 will be paid each time, are pending payment, 13 requests are awaiting completion and 14 are pending before or after completion, and 82 contributions have been reviewed in the second half of October or later and will now barely be scheduled for review and one application has been rejected. At the agency itself, another 100 requests for payment are expected in the next period, which also means 100 checks. This also increases the number of people at the agency doing this work in March, so that it will be more accelerated. However, I would like to say something, honourable Member, in spite of everything. The checks shall establish that individual claims are in accordance with the legislation and that individual claims are not in conformity with the legislation. Often they are missing, which is often the reason for requiring supplementation, often missing material evidence. In some cases, for example, the claim will be impossible to pay. It is an example, for example, of a request that is the latest from one of the LAGs to require reimbursement for construction that did not even have a building permit. At the Ministry itself, we will try to see whether anything else can be done to help LAGs to carry out their projects to the end, but at this point I must say that we care for public funds, both European and Slovenian, and public funds must be used in a way that is in accordance with the decision itself and in accordance with the Slovenian legal order, which requires some kind of usable permits, somewhere requires building permits. The larger number of needs to be complemented has turned out to be from the point of view that those who invest have failed to comply with the Slovenian acquis and then these beneficiaries have the opportunity to supplement it. But let me tell you something else, because time allows me to do it. If they had not regulated the payment and control system, as the certification authority had imposed, and had left things as they were before controls, then they would have risked paying out projects from the rural development programme as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u257	Thank you. Ambassador Vojka Shergan demands that the reply be completed.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u258	Here I could only add that these projects referred to by the LAG were in line with the decisions issued by the Ministry, but that the Agency did not respect the decisions in any way. That's what I'm interested in. Also: Will this make it worse to draw European funds from this title? If that's all you can explain, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u259	Thank you. There's a minister's word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u260	Thanks for the extra question. As far as the Rural Development Programme is concerned, a billion 200, of which about 31 million are for local action groups. This year we are still paying off some of the things from the old rural development programme, and some of them are already moving from a new one. Since we have a security reserve called the possibility of payments from an old or new perspective at the OMD, we will take advantage of this money in any case. That's what the relationship between the OMD is going to be. I am also aware that, in essence, the State would have done the right thing if, in 2007 when local action plans were being prepared, it had made it clear that the checks would be carried out in accordance with the instructions of the certification authorities, but it did so a little later because the certification programme had asked us to do so. I believe that we will also eliminate these indignations, which have been characteristic of the last period. Among other things, if €31 million has been made available in local action groups so far, a new €95.7 million is available on local programmes, and this is essentially one of the few possible resources for local communities to make the necessary investments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u261	Thank you. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert will ask the Minister of Health, Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u262	Dear everyone, Minister of Health! Mental health concerns everything; both the individual and society as a whole. In the face of a severe global crisis in the country, various risk factors for mental health are being strengthened. However, people with mental health problems are still among the most excluded, vulnerable groups not only in the field of work and employment, but also in the economic, social and cultural aspects. The Mental Health Act was passed in 2008. This Article 111 provides that the Government shall draw up a national programme within one year of the entry into force of the law to be submitted to the National Assembly. We are therefore six years behind in this strategic document, and the draft has been in the Ministry’s drawers for some time. Let me stress that this is an extremely important strategic document covering both health, social, justice and education. Why the country needs this document, there is probably no need to stress it in particular. It should be pointed out, however, that it is estimated that the burden of the State on the basis of mental disorders is around 3 to 4% of the gross social product. Planned investment in mental health would therefore mean a reduction in the burden of the State, which should be an additional reason for the adoption of the document. At the same time, perhaps I should say that British Prime Minister Blair, at the time he realized that the State was giving more to mental health than to the entire military, had taken immediate action and had hired special advisers to do so. In short, Minister: So when can the National Assembly expect this important document?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u263	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc, will reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u264	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President! Dear Member, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! True, I can agree with you that the Resolution on the National Programme of Mental Health has had a very long beard. You have rightly found that the Mental Health Act, which provided the legal basis for the preparation of this cover document, was adopted in 2008, so allow me to describe briefly to you and to this assembly what has happened during this time and my commitment to when this resolution will be prepared and presented in the third reading. In this already mentioned law, the legislator has taken into account the most modern international instruments in the field of human rights protection and has established a legal basis for the preparation of a specific national programme for mental health. The area of health protection is one very important, very complex and very difficult area, both from a substantive point of view, because it can be said that there is no health without mental health, as well as from an implementation point of view, because there is an urgent need for cooperation between very different sectors and experts from different professions. In particular, it is a complex health and social area and its range is so large that the ultimate objective of protecting mental health can be defined in essence as an improvement in the quality of life of all the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia. The identification of a public network of providers of programmes and services for mental health, in which certain programmes that will meet difficult conditions can involve such NGOs, can be found to be an extremely demanding project, as it regulates a planned and structured area which has unfortunately been unregulated for decades for various reasons in Slovenia. As you have already noted, immediately after the adoption of the law in January 2009, the then Minister of Health appointed an inter-resort working group composed of multidisciplinary representatives of various professions, institutions, including representatives of non-governmental organisations or civil society. This working group has prepared a proposal for a national mental health programme for first reading, which is due to the very high interest and the requirement to extend the public debate, which took place from 7 September to 15 November 2009. Following this first hearing, the Ministry received a number of comments and initiatives, which were subsequently included within the Working Group and a resolution for the second public hearing was drawn up, which was put into inter-sectoral coordination from 6 April to 3 May 2011. Following the conclusion of the second public debate, a new Interdepartmental Group was appointed on 13 July 2011, which then submitted a proposal in October 2013, and the Resolution on the National Mental Health Programme followed by the third treatment and interdepartmental coordination of this resolution from 30 January to 14 February 2014. Unfortunately, this resolution did not obtain the consent of the Ministry of Finance in this third reading, which required the completion of the proposal with certain financial implications. This is why the motion for a resolution has been prepared and supplemented by an action plan and is now at a stage in which coordination with the ministries, including the Ministry of Finance, is being carried out. It is planned to go to third reading by the end of April of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert requires a supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u266	Thank you very much, Minister, for your comprehensive response. What has happened to this law or not to the draft resolution, however, in the past, is somehow known, but what is important is the following. We are talking about such an important document, which is in the final stage, as you yourself have found, including the company's investment in the future. Let me remind you of the alarming information that children with mental disabilities are not receiving adequate assistance. The adoption of this document is also necessary in this respect. I would like to point out that, because Slovenia does not have a special protected department for children and adolescents, they are now literally set up with adults, not only in violation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, but also many other international instruments. Finally, children and youths do pay for this sin. I'm glad in some way that you've admitted publicly that this marriage is in drawers because it's on some kind of diet. Because there's not enough money in the country. However, I believe that it is your responsibility to advocate for a document as important as this to be accepted as soon as possible in its full form and to help society as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Here you go, supplemental.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u268	I will only repeat it, as I have already said in the recital, that this resolution is expected to be sent to the third reading by the end of April this year. Maybe it's just an answer that I've already given to children, to young people with mental disabilities. As I have said many times before, the Health Council will give priority to the proposals. The Commission has already addressed this proposal for the establishment of a special section for these children, requested a further analysis from the section and the President of the Health Council promised me that this matter will be resolved this year and, of course, the money provided for this programme will go into effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Here you go. A motion for discussion? Here you go, Anya Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u270	I wanted in some way to have a debate in the National Assembly, but because I know that the matter will certainly not go through according to the coalition machine, I am pleased with your answer that you will take care of our youngest as soon as possible in the near future, if I may say so. Above all, you know that you should also be guided by the following information, Madam Secretary-General. In fact, in Slovenia we have quite a few specialists in psychopediatry, if I may say so, and otherwise they will leave this country and look for opportunities elsewhere if this issue is not settled as soon as possible. This is bad for our society.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u271	Thank you very much. That wasn't a suggestion, but okay. Mr Ivan Hršak will raise the question to the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u272	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Political Parties Act provides for the financing of political parties, but it does not highlight the financing of independent independent independent papers, which are mainly involved in the local field. This part, that is, the part concerning local elections, lays down another legislation and the fact is that in recent years local elections have been taking part in more independent independent lists, we can almost say that they grow like mushrooms in the rain. I therefore ask you a question, which is also raised by many others: On what legal basis can these independent lists be financed if they run on a local level? Are they entitled to a financial payment on the basis of the election outcome, therefore, given the number of votes reached in the last local elections? If this answer of yours is yes, I would also like to know: In what way, and on what legal basis, and to what extent should secular groups or independent independent saints be financed in the work of the congregation or city council? I would like to thank you very much in advance for your answer, but I would ask you to give me a written answer in addition to your oral response. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Mr Boris Koprivnikar, Minister of Public Administration, will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u274	Dear Members! Dear Member Hršak, thank you for this question. The legal basis is to separate two funding; one is to finance the costs of the electoral campaign and the other is the costs of the operation of the council group. [[…]] Firstly, in order to reimburse the costs of the electoral campaign, this is laid down in the Law on Election and Referendum Law, which imposes on the campaign operator all costs of the electoral campaign and leads them to a separate transaction account. The local community may, before the start of the electoral campaign, determine the amount of the partial reimbursement of the costs of the organizers of the electoral campaign, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 28 of the ZVRK, determine that the costs shall be partly reimbursed only to the organizers of the electoral campaign, who have been appointed by the representative body of the local community, and only to the organizers of the electoral campaign for an individual local body whose candidates have achieved a certain percentage of the total number of electoral beneficiaries who voted, with a percentage determined by the local community not exceeding 10%. Therefore, the local community can determine that part of these costs shall be reimbursed to the organiser. Partly reimburses the organiser, whether it is an election campaign for a political party or for a secularly shared party. So this isn't directly related. However, in the event of reimbursement of costs, it is important that the total amount of reimbursements should not exceed the amount actually proven to be spent for that purpose. While the second part is the financing of political parties or saintly groups in the municipal world set out in the Law on Political Parties. Here, this year's strain raises more and more questions, whether part of the funding for political parties in the municipal world can also be devoted to the functioning of the secular groups. This is not possible on this legal basis and has already been decided by the Constitutional Court. It is said that it is not for the operation of a secular group, but it can be intended for the operation of political parties. It is also clear from the Constitutional Court’s judgment that the functions of an individual member of the municipal council or of a group of members of the municipal council cannot be compared with that of political parties in political life. The Council Group is treated differently and the financing of such groups on the same legal basis is objectively impossible and unjustifiable because the secular group is not a political party. It is possible, however, that the municipality may devote funds to all municipal councilors for their operation, not only to those who have run for local elections by means of voter signatures, and in our opinion it is also unacceptable for them to make a distinction between saints after they have been elected to the municipal council. However, as has already been said, after the elections have been concluded and the mandates approved, the positions of the Council are the same, but they are not the same positions of the Council and the political parties. This has been decided by the Constitutional Court; therefore, the functioning of the Council groups is not equal to that of political parties and cannot be financed on the same basis.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mahnic will ask the Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u276	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President! Madam Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I must say that, in my question, I will be very specific, at my constituency, even though I believe that, in the future, this problem will become broader, national, in the light of the reduction of the budget deficit. In particular, you have probably noticed in the media that in the municipalities of Žiri, Gorenje vas-Poljane and Railways, pediatric ambulances are being abolished. This story's had a long history. Thus, for example, the Jurassic and Gornjeva mayor were informed by the users of the preventive paediatric outpatient clinic two to three years ago that they were planning to terminate, shortly after notification that they were also going to abolish the gynecological outpatient. Together then, after the talks, they were able to put an end to the matter, and last June, representatives of Gorenjska’s primary health care, and the Škofja Loka’s Health Home, informed them of plans for termination, was scheduled to do so at the beginning of the school year, on September 1st, but then they moved the matter. Here I also have a record when the mayors discussed these matters, namely that on 18 June last year they were informed of the intention after the abolition of the department of pediatrics in the municipality of Jiri, on 1 September. As a reason, the strict requirements for the transfer of the vaccine to dislocated units, the inadequacy of the outpatient premises and the provision of appropriate computer connections. Then Mr. Mayor of Gorenje vas-Poljane Milan Čadež said that he had been informed about this, and then called for the municipalities to be informed how to arrange their premises to be suitable for these paediatric outpatients. They also held a joint meeting with the National Institute for Public Health, which prescribed expert guidance on where and what to do. This Regulation should now apply to the new rules on vaccines. From September on, they had already been warned to warn them about what would change, they had only received it on February 25th, and there was nothing until then, despite giving and waiting for them to get the case. That's why I'm asking you, Minister: Did you do everything in your power at the Ministry to prevent this situation from happening? It says: Are the funds provided? Second: Why did the National Institute for Public Health not provide professional guidance on the basis of which municipalities would properly arrange spaces for paediatric outpatients? Third time: What is wrong with this vaccination rule, after which the spaces of the paediatric outpatient clinics in Žirje, Gorenje village and railways are no longer appropriate? When will this vaccine regulation be properly corrected or will it enter into force at all? And the fourth time: What are you going to do, probably in cooperation with the Ministry of Education, that there will be no shortage of pediatricians and family doctors in the countryside in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Ms Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u278	Thank you for your word. Dear Member Mahnic! First of all, let me make it very clear and loud that the Ministry of Health does not close the pediatric infirmary. You are probably well aware that the organisation of work in the field of pediatrics is at the primary level, and that the primary level is the responsibility of the local community, so in addition to my answer, I would ask or suggest that you address these questions to the mayor or to the mayors of municipalities, because there are many of them who are the founders of this healthcare home in the areas you mention. This is how I will respond to the part that is within our competence; and once again, the Ministry of Health has neither the right nor the authority or any role in closing a paediatric or any other primary-level ambulance. It is true, however, that the lack of pediatricians in Slovenia is complete. This lack has been evident for several years, but certain measures have also been taken. But let me tell you the reasons why this shortage has occurred. First of all, due to the very unpleasant age structure of current paediatrics at primary level, as there are, among paediatrics and specialists in school medicine, one hundred specialists over 56 years of age, 34 paediatrics over 61 years of age. This is said to be true of the majority of doctors in this age group who have already retired, and it is precisely because of the severe staffing shortages that these pediatricians have been reactivated. According to our data, at the primary level, there is a regular and full-time employment of 170 paediatric specialists. The second reason is that in recent years the organisation of the paediatric service has not followed socio-economic conditions, particularly those that have resulted in or caused the migration of young families from larger towns to rural areas, which are certainly the Polish and Selska valleys. And, of course, increased employment of pediatricians in hospitals, although they specialize according to the needs of the primary level, and also given that the number of paediatric specialists has not been properly described. The Ministry of Health has already acted. Thus, in 2013 it adopted a primary network, where the number of seats for specialisation in paediatrics increased. The result of this increased call for specialisation will soon be visible. There will be 194 paediatric specialists active. This year's invitation to tender will further propose 34 new specialisations for paediatrics. This means that by 2018 140 new pediatricians will gradually enter the network. So with regard to your question about NEIZ, I have to say that I don't know that. People from the National Institute of Public Health, in their jurisdiction, prescribe rules on where and how vaccines should be preserved and protected. If the technical conditions for the protection of these vaccines have not been met, according to my information from the media, this is supposed to be inappropriate refrigerators. Therefore, in particular, why it has not been possible to remedy this problem, I cannot answer it, but it is likely that it is in the healthcare home to remedy these technical deficiencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Here you are, Mr. Jan Mahnic, a request for a supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u280	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. I have to say that I expected such an answer, even when you said that – I know that this belongs to the primary level, but as I said before, the problem is due to the National Institute of Public Health, which is not in the community domain, but it is in the Ministry of Health domain. That's what it says. It's in your department's domain. See, Madam Minister, here I have a thousand signatures of Žirovk and Žirovci, that is to say the citizens of the Ziri Municipality – a thousand signatures are more than one of the members of the elections – who are against the abolition of the pediatric infirmary in Žirje. I believe that all citizens and citizens of other congregations share the same opinion. Once again, I know that the OSG is under the municipalities, but I am talking about the work relating to the National Institute for Public Health. See, as far as feeding serums and other vaccinations is concerned, enough is from there plus 4 to plus 8 degrees Celsius. There's already one cool bag that can handle this. I don't know why such changes are all of a sudden necessary. We also know what the temperatures are, and our infirmary is adequately prepared to feed the serum. Let me also tell you what the costs will be, say, for elementary schools; say Poljane, Žiri, Gorenje village: 11 transports in Gorenja village, 10 bus transports in Žirje, 10 transports in Poljana. It is about 600 children — only in these two congregations! There will be additional costs and so on. You talked about the increase in the tender and about 2018. I must say that this is a positive measure, I welcome it, but we currently need some measure that will also produce a short-term result. If any mother has a sick child today, perhaps she cannot wait until 2018 when they show up, I believe that the positive measures you are now preparing, Madam Minister. That is why I am once again interested, in particular in: Will there be any short-term measures regarding paediatrics? What about this National Institute for Public Health — if you are interested or will you take action in this area?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Mary Milojka Kolar Celarc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u282	I'll do it again. I said that already the result of the increased invitation to specialise in paediatric doctors: already at the end of 2014 there are additional 194 paediatric specialists active and a total of 140 at the end of 2018. So the results are already visible. Once again, if the National Institute for Public Health has determined in its review what technical conditions must be met, that vaccines and serums are safely stored, then I think it is responsible in terms of patient safety or, if you want, those children and adolescents who will receive these vaccines to provide appropriate services at local level and in particular in healthcare homes with these technical conditions. However, I will further check to see if this examination of NIJZ has deviated from the established technical conditions. But, as we say, this is the task and responsibility of the local community and the directors of health homes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u283	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Mr. Jean-Mahnich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u284	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the National Assembly hold a debate on the Minister's response. Look, we need to talk about what will happen next, because I strongly doubt that there are some other complications here, because not the serums have changed from yesterday to today, not the vaccine has changed from yesterday to today, but even less so have the health homes in the railways, Gorenja Village and Žirjeh changed from yesterday to today. These things haven't changed, and obviously there's another thing behind here. I will also read to you, here I have received the Association of the Small Economy of the Jury, which reminds me of the serious consequences if this matter is not resolved immediately. It says here that this termination will not only affect families with children but also the jury and other companies. You've probably heard about it in the media, and I'm going to point that out in particular. I believe that you will or I hope, given the numbers that the Minister has said, that other Members will not be faced with these problems in your neighbourhoods, however. Assuming that the child visits the pediatrician five times by the beginning of the school and that 50 children are born every year in Žirje, this is 500 reviews per year. If the children are to be examined in Škofja Loko, it is 20,000 kilometres, 2 000 litres of fuel, 2 000 600 euros of fuel costs, 500 days away, 4 000 hours of work lost, 80 000 euros of business losses, wages and loss of earnings are included, and loss of company profits of 20,000 euros of budget losses. Since I believe that it is in everyone's interest that this is not happening, I propose that we hold a debate on this matter. I believe that our mayors, Mr Čadež, Mr Luznar and Mr Jacques will continue to fight. However, to you, Madam Minister, that you will have better starting conditions and arguments in discussions with the National Institute of Public Health, I now also hand over this petition signed by citizens and citizens of the Municipality of Jiri. Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u285	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, March 3rd, in the framework of the votes. Mr Marjan Dolinšek will ask the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u286	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Nice greetings, respectable ministerial assembly, respectable colleagues and colleagues! Years ago, a concession was granted to the Slovenian power plant Holding in central Savi. The Concession Treaty has not yet been concluded. On 5 February 2015, a letter from HSE Director General Koshorok to the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Environment and Space was sent. This letter presents a proposal for the transfer of the concession from HSE to the SRESO, these are the Medieval Power Plants, d. o. o. Construction of a chain of hydroelectric power plants on the Sava River is one of the key projects of all Slovenian energy, as both existing energy pillars are involved in financing and construction, and it is also, as you know, a key project necessary for the implementation of the Action Plan for the Construction of Renewable Resources, which is a requirement of Slovenia under the European Directive. Hydroelectric power plants in the Central Sava are actually a missing link in the planned chain, which would make sense as soon as possible, especially now that we are also trying to solve the development and existence of energy in Zasavje. The construction of hydroelectric power plants in the Central Sava could certainly alleviate the human resources problem in part, as the cadre could be diverted to a new energy project in part. The agreement and decision between the concessionaire and the concessionaire on the division of investment in energy and infrastructure is therefore crucial, which is a prerequisite for the conclusion of the concession contract and, of course, the transfer of the concession from HSE to SRESS earlier. With regard to the above, I would like to ask: How will the state follow this? What will be the financing of the first part of the project for the construction of hydroelectric power plants in Central Savi? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Irena Majcen has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u288	Madam President, honourable Member, Mr Marjan Dolinšek. Since 2005, the HSE concession for water use has been granted to the Central Sava area for the purpose of exploiting its energy potential. The concession was awarded by a decision without invitation to tender to an existing concession holder on the part of the water body of the upper Sava and the lower Sava. That was HSE back then. On the basis of his initiative to increase electricity production on the Sava River. The regulation was issued in 2004 and the decision in 2005. The Concession Treaty has not yet been concluded, which is why the concession relationship has not yet been fully concluded. The concession contract concluded by the concessionaire is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and the concessionaire has already been fully coordinated in coordination with the concessionaire at the end of 2013. The Ministry of Environment and Space has already inter-resourced the text of the concession contract with all the departments except the Ministry of Finance. The coordination stopped in January 2014, as it was found that there was insufficient funding to build the necessary road infrastructure. This is the Zidani Bridge-Hrastnik Road, which also requires local communities to sign a special cooperation agreement and mutual rights and obligations relating to the construction of the Suhadol, Trbovlje and Renke hydroelectric power plant, which is the accompanying document of the concession contract required by the local communities. It is concluded by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the concessionary and local communities in the area of the first five hydroelectric plants to be built. However, it is due to the fulfilment of the requirements of the local communities that they have the same position as the local communities in the construction of hydroelectric power plants on the lower Sava, which is based on a specific law, with a view to regulating related content through the installation and operation of hydroelectric power plants by means of a specific arrangement. On the other hand, the conclusion of the concession contract did not continue because the concessionaire stated that, in view of the current situation when the Natura 2000 sites are located in the central Sava do Kresnic, where there is a sultar presence, the State cannot guarantee the concessionaire that it would be able to use other technologies because of the chain of ten flowing hydroelectric power plants, but that it is highly likely that all ten hydroelectric plants will have to be used and that it will not be possible to build all ten hydroelectric plants, so the concessionaire stated that it would no longer want to conclude the concession contract. The interviews concerned also did not express the willingness of the concessionaire and the other owner, SRESO, to transfer the concession to that company. As a result, all related activities have stalled. In the part where the issue relates to the transfer of the concession, the cooperation of the existing concessionaire is essential. Under the provisions of the Water Act, a request for the transfer of a concession must be made by the current rightholder if the water right is transferred before the construction of facilities or installations. The person to whom the water right is transferred must comply with the conditions and criteria laid down for its acquisition. Concession shall be transferred by issuing a new decision and not by contract. The concession transfer initiative has not yet been submitted; the ILO and the Ministry of Infrastructure have forwarded a letter proposing the transfer of the concession and the redistribution of the rights and obligations of the concessionaire, namely the Republic of Slovenia, and the concessionaire, that is, the HSE. A joint meeting of the concessionaire and both addressees of the letter will be held in March, where HSE will present a new model to us, as stated in its letter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u289	Thank you very much. Good. Mr Matjaž German has the floor to ask the Minister for Culture mags a question. Juliani Bizjak Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u290	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected ministerial team, Madam Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, Minister of Culture! The year 2015 will mark an important period, with few mentions of World War I, one of the most gruesome battles on the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, and the markings will take place there as of 2015, with the end of 2017. In the previous country, only a little attention has been paid to this historic event, with the establishment of its country and since 1990 with the establishment of the Kobari Museum, ten years later the government adopted the Peace Path and the adoption of the Soča Peace Route Foundation, and today the National Committee for the Marking of the 100th Anniversary of World War I is in operation with the launch of the festive opening in a few weeks' time, 21. 3. In Nova Gorica, this process will also begin, I will say, marking historical facts and our cultural heritage. Cultural monuments of national importance are the most important monuments in Slovenia and have national significance by means of a declaration act adopted by the Government on the professional grounds of the Institute of Cultural Heritage and obtained the status of monuments of State importance. The status is of great symbolic importance, but it would not in itself be reflected in the country's expectations, especially in terms of public financial support, but in particular it remains a monument to us and to our scholars to recall the terrible facts of our history. In this sense, in 2002 the then President Milan Kučan at Cerje laid the foundation stone on Goriški Kras and began the construction of a monument to the defenders of Slovenian land on Cerje, we now know him as Cerje. This is a monument where every year we mark, you will all know well, an international day of peace in September month, which is also attended every year by the summit of Slovenian politics. As has already been said, the foundation stone of this monument was erected in 2002. My question is the following, which concerns this monument as well as other monuments of such value mainly from this territory. I want to know: Is the Ministry implementing or planning any specific measures that would give monuments of national importance greater access to resources or reconstruction or development? I see one option in the so-called cultural euro. Second of all, I'll be quick: Do you know how many proposals for acts to declare monuments of State importance are in the government procedure? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u291	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Mag will answer. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u292	Dear Minister, Minister, honourable President, honourable Members, honourable Member Matjaž Germany, and, of course, Members, I must not forget them either. Thank you very much for this question. I completely agree with you. It is an extremely important celebration of the 100th anniversary of World War I, which is already under way and these events, festive, are still ahead of us. You're asking about monuments of national importance, of local importance. There are quite a number of activities at the Ministry of Culture, so there are various measures by which we protect the monuments: from regular monitoring to monitoring the state of the individual monument by regular services, regional institutions for the protection of cultural heritage and monumental protection measures, of course, within the framework of financial capabilities. At the same time, we are trying to raise awareness among local citizens about the importance of these monuments through the office or museum service. For those cultural monuments which are of national importance, which are owned and managed by the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry provides, within the framework of the budget option, funds for operating costs, maintenance and investment works. For cultural monuments of national importance, which are in the management or use of public institutions in the field of culture, the Ministry of Culture provides funds for investment, while the operator provides for the operation and maintenance of these facilities. In short, you are also asking about European funds. I can tell you that, after the loss of those funds, which are already quite a lot of talk from the previous government, we are working hard to obtain other funds, both from the European territorial cooperation programmes for this purpose for the protection of cultural monuments and at the same time, we have also reported projects concerning public-cultural infrastructure among projects in the so-called Juncker package. So we're probably the only country that has cultural projects in Juncker's package, and I hope we can get funding here. You're asking about the government procedure for declaring monuments of state importance, which they are. Currently there are three cases in this government procedure, namely the Russian Chapel at Vršič, a monument in Montenegro and the National House in Novi Grad. However, in order to declare an individual unit of inheritance a monument of local or national importance, anyone may propose an individual unit of inheritance, in accordance with Articles 12 and 13 of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage. With regard to the monument at Cerje, however, it must be said that this monument is neither a monument of state nor of local importance and is not yet complete. The idea of building a monument was somehow never agreed on at the republican level, and not in cooperation with the monument protection profession. However, in the past, the Ministry of Culture was also aware of the importance of Slovenian country's defenders, so it co-financed its construction outside regular calls, from a specific budget line of EUR 753 000 246.53 for the first phase, which was 64 % of the investment, and EUR 350 000 for the second phase. Whether this monument can be regarded as a monument of local or national importance, we do not know this moment because the role to be given to the relevant authorities is necessary in order to find out. It is true, however, that in all these years no document has been signed by the Ministry of Culture which would oblige the Republic of Slovenia to maintain the facility and not to fund the operation of this new museum unit in the future. And currently in the budget for this purpose as well [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u293	Thank you very much. Mr Jernej Vrtovec will ask the Minister of Justice a question. Goran Klemenčich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u294	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Minister, Minister, Minister, President! Mr Minister, you may have received this question or a similar question at previous regular meetings, and I also think that there was one written question, but mine will be a little different. In fact, the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin, which is the basis for the proceedings for the seizure of illegally acquired property, entered into force 29. 11. In 2011, the application was, on purpose, started 29. 5. 2012. Therefore, this six-month period from the entry into force of the law until its entry into force was intended solely for the competent Specialised State Prosecutor's Office as the competent authority to initiate the confiscation procedure to prepare, prepare for the application of the law, referring to the education of prosecutors, the possible need for additional employment or the redeployment of prosecutors and so on. People would, of course, expect that the very first day this law entered into force, that, of course, the competent state prosecutor's office should immediately start implementing this law, but unfortunately that was not the case. And also the 2013 Special Prosecutor's Office report shows that they were 31 years old. 12. 2013 – Here I would like to remind you that this report is not yet available for 2014 – only three complaints have been filed for the confiscation of assets of illegal origin and only five complaints have been filed by 30 November 2014. So it has been three years or two and a half years since the law entered into force. These figures clearly tell us that the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin is therefore not implemented. Therefore, I have one question for you, regarding the investigation itself. One of the basic principles of this law is also the principle of the speed of proceedings and Article 17 of this Act commands that the financial investigation authorities are to act with special urgency and that the financial investigation may last for a maximum period of one year and that this period may be extended. I want to know: How do you think we could shorten the procedure so that a financial investigation under this law could be initiated earlier? I also ask you: What measures have been or will be taken against state prosecutors or their leaders who have not provided for the completion of financial investigations within the time limit? What will be the sanctions? What will your actions be after all? For the money went out a great deal, and many went away, and nothing gained him back, in spite of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u295	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Goran Klemenčič, Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u296	Thank you for your word, chairman. Messengers and Members, colleague, Member of the Gardener! First of all, some of the data we obtained from the Special Prosecutor's Office on a question-by-question basis. Your statement that a total of 5 lawsuits have been filed to date is correct. Complaints were lodged against 11 natural persons and against 4 legal persons; the total value of the action is approximately 12 million and a half. One case has already been concluded by judgment. The first case is closed by judgment. To date, 20 financial investigations have been jointly determined in Slovenia against 85 natural and 56 legal persons. Of this, 14 financial investigations were made by the Special Prosecutor's Office against 66 natural persons and 55 legal entities and the rest by other District Attorneys. The time of the financial investigation, the time limit for the submission of the financial investigation or the deadline within which the financial investigation is to be completed shall be limited to those cases where temporary insurance is determined or temporary withdrawal is determined, which shall be one and a half years for others. At the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, we were told that at the time of reporting, no financial investigation was stopped for a formal reason or exceeded its deadline. Now, in principle, I agree with your concerns, but not in this case the state's attorney's office. Two and a half years of marriage is valid, and I think in this work he was even invested, we'll say what a disproportionate effort to make the marriage come to life. Because it is problematic that you also need to know that the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office was not quite long ago, two and a half years ago received a human resources structure that allows this. [[…]] Although I know that with much of what we are going to say this week, you do not agree, I would like to say that in the amendment to the State Prosecutor's Office Act 1, which will also be discussed this week in this assembly, we propose the creation of a special department within the Special Prosecutor's Office to act after the PDO, we propose a solution to the easier acquisition of external experts working in this particular area, and a more effective representation in the appeals proceedings. I believe that at least with this work you agree that your concerns about other laws and other matters are, of course, legitimate. Now for a little while. In Slovenia, the problem is that we were one of the last countries to receive such legislation. I'll give you a personal case. In 2000, when I was employed by the Council of Europe, I was part of a team that is all other Balkan countries, I don't think now because you understand me, except Slovenia, in changing legislation to take the illegal property benefits. [[…]] We were only Slovenes so clever at the time that we did not need this help, and therefore all these laws were adopted earlier in our other republics, Romania, Bulgaria and so on, even in Albania. Why is that? I can only guess. When the law was passed, I myself said in another function that if today's legislation allows us 40% efficiency, but we are only able to use it 5%, by amending legislation that will allow us 80% efficiency, we will not jump from 5 to 80 because we have an organisational problem because we have problems of cooperation between authorities and so on. Financial investigations have taken place very late, they mean a completely different approach to investigating crimes, they require not prosecutors, but civil lawyers who are working to file these complaints, which we now allow them. I believe that the attention that Members pay to this, and certainly I, which I consider to be a priority, will improve. But it's all sooner than satisfactory, but in this case I wouldn't blame only the U.S. Attorney's Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u297	Thank you very much. Here's your supplement, Mr. Jerney Gardener.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u298	Yes, thank you very much for your answer, Minister. I don't blame the entire prosecution either, because, finally, I think, once on the Justice Committee, when the report was before us, we were looking at it, but I am talking in general about this inefficiency. I think we had a meeting of the Committee on the Interior and the Justice Committee last week, and one prosecutor said, you know, we're not gonna get that money back, we're gonna have a hard time getting it back, because it's practically gone or it's pretty hidden, probably in shares, mostly. Because if we are talking about economic crime, which started with taking over businesses, but even if we look at, say, foreign countries of the European Union or not, Serbia. For example, Serbia was very effective in 2013 as regards the acquisition of this property back, and the Republic of Serbia is not an example of an orderly state of law, but the money obtained from illegally acquired origin is more than the Republic of Slovenia from so-called lumps. Of course I don't blame the prosecution, but one gets the feeling that somehow this process is stopping. And we can list a lot of cases where there was damage, but things don't move forward. I will not procedurally demand that we discuss this, because in New Slovenia we are aware of this problem and will constructively also make any recommendations for the work of the State Prosecutor's Office in the area of illegally acquired property or the confiscation of this property. As for our positions in other laws, in the so-called mini reform, which will be on the agenda this week, we will support what is right, and we will reject what is bad, right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u299	Minister Klemenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u300	Thank you very much. I agree. Correct. Although you are the opposition, I can only agree with what you have said or not even though you are the opposition. Well, look, one thing, now what I already am, because I have two more minutes. It is necessary to know that, of course, some numbers exist and I also believe that they will become public sooner or later, because the Government has also set up a special group, an inter-departmental group, which I am accidentally leading, on the diversion of money into tax havens. The fact is, I don't necessarily think that all this money is possible again because of what you said because it is in shares and these shares today are significantly less valuable after the economic collapse than they were before. [[…]] That's one thing. The other thing is, you know, to be honest, other countries have a lot of problems with implementation in this area. Serbia has been effective in one part. The problem is that things fell later in the courts, because our PDONI will be under the Constitutional Court's judgment once again. This was the case in Ireland and England. But they're there today because they started it 15 or 20 years ago. And we still have to go this way, and it's gonna hurt. And what I think is, I think with the right warning that this must be the focus of Follow the money, so that we can give the greatest support to law enforcement and detection authorities, and we must not forget, in this game of financial investigation, the prosecution is extremely important, including the police. However, the financial institution, the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, FURS, is, in fact, even more important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u301	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Zorman will ask the Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u302	President, thank you for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished Minister, colleagues, colleagues! Minister of Health, Mrs. Milojko Kolar Celarc. Recently, health workers have recently made a strong warning that Slovenian health care should be just before the break due to strong human resources malnutrition. The drop over the edge was an outbreak of flu, which in January and early February led to a marked increase in patient inflows in UKC Ljubljana. They're supposed to be short of equipment and personnel. On television, we watched disturbing recordings of patients lying in the hallways, and nurses received no extras paid for the hard work they were doing. There were warnings of overload, numerical malnutrition and underestimation of nurses who were supposed to work more and more. It is intended to add its own ZUJF and ZIPRS, which prevent employment, namely the Law on Public Finance Balance and the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The Health and Grandma Care Union was outraged that you did not meet with them as minister and recalled the 2013 sentence requirements, that is, before your term of office, regarding the setting of standards and standards. Such disturbing news disturbs us, as we have often heard that lack of personnel is intended to endanger patients and their health. In the Tarč programme, you said that paying overtime is the responsibility of hospital directors and that it is necessary to determine first how many nurses are employed now and whether this is even the optimal number. You also said you'd meet with the nurses. I want to know: What have you done in this area? Can you ensure that nurses have received payment for their hard work, as called for by the Health Committee? I also want to know: Have you met with nurses and begun to resolve many years of accumulated nursing problems? And the end: What are the Ministry's plans to address the human resources problems of healthcare? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u303	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u304	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Member, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! This question, indeed, is what you said by Mr Branko Zorman that in cases where flu disease occurred at the highest level in UKC Ljubljana, mainly due to the admission of more patients. However, this is happening every year and it was not an exceptional case this year. I continue to insist or say that the actual responsibility and first task of the management or chairman of each clinic is to have and properly organise its own institution in such cases. However, it should be added that the health employment problem, which has been limited by the Public Finance Balance Act, which unfortunately limits employment, is highlighted and argued at the Ministry of Health that the restrictions on employment in health activities cannot be equated with the area of public servants and the reduction of staff in the face of unfavourable demographic changes in the Slovenian population and the increasing need for hospitalisation. The healthcare institution, which carries out the programme and has the funding provided, must in fact also ensure an adequate number of employees for the implementation of the programme, of course with good organisation and efficient use of time as well as staff. In the situation you are describing, due to the increase in the prevalence of the population, and at the same time more absences among employees, nurses, let me mention that abstention among nurses is due to the fact that this is mainly a female labour force, relatively large, absent due to maternity leave and a long-term illness. Therefore, the lack of this staff is reflected even more strongly. The situation resulting from such a situation with a higher incidence of influenza is also reflected by the specificity of work in the excessive burden of medical staff as a result of the provision of 24-hour work and the provision of continuous presence. With the realization, as you mentioned, we agreed to pay overtime in this place to say that this realization of overtime payments to nurses will be checked through our members in sacred institutions, that is to say those members who are representatives of the founder, that is, the countries of the Republic of Slovenia. Let me say here that this is our largest institution, this is the UKC, actually already adopted the decision and will pay in salary, I think this week, for 34 thousand 855 overtime just for nurses. Let me say that this is, in fact, almost 20,000 overtime more than an average monthly payment. I also have information that the Maribor Emergency Centre is also actually currently paying overtime. For all the other hospitals, we will supervise or ask the boards of institutions and their representatives whether this decision is realized or not, especially because hospitals have received an additional EUR 13.7 million from the institutions for the implementation of their programmes for 2014. And as for the nurses, let me explain that we met with the Health and Grandmothers Syndicate on February 20th. Together, we agreed unanimously to prepare the basis for the so-called recommendations or staff standards, which will be prepared together with the members of the Strategic Council for Health and Grandmother Care, in order to prepare a comprehensive network of both intensive units and bed facilities and the needs for these staff for 10 to 15 years and their education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u305	Thank you very much. Mr Simon Zajc will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravek Počvalšku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u306	Thank you for your word. All in attendance, all in attendance! In Slovenia, we are increasingly aware of the importance of social entrepreneurship, not only because it sounds good, but because people in this form of entrepreneurship recognize a form in which they can influence the society in which they live, because they are dealing with areas in which the country may have to deal but not because it is not known or perhaps it does not. Promoting the development of social entrepreneurship, society and economic democracy has moved to the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and I am interested in: Do you already have a strategy? What measures have you taken to support social enterprises? If so, how much funding do you have for these measures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u307	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Zdravko Restoršek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u308	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament, honourable Members. Social entrepreneurship is an important economic sector, although I must be honest to say that I consider this name to be "social" in some way wrong in this association sense. This is about entrepreneurship as any other, which must be based on economic foundations. That's what it really is. I believe, however, that this will now be shown very quickly in practice, because there are quite a few positive cases in Slovenia in this area, which have also achieved positive results. But to go in line, social entrepreneurship is referred to in the coalition contract as a strategic project, namely: "Promoting the development of social entrepreneurship, society and economic democracy." It also seems to me that marriage is a little closer to the right expression, even though it has some roots with negative associations, at least for us older. Another area. Social entrepreneurship is 1. 1. 2015 has passed on to our ministry, where we will cover the subject of the whole area in addition to the reform of legislation and the social entrepreneurship strategy. Promoting social entrepreneurship or social enterprises – support for a comprehensive approach to the emergence and growth of social enterprises and strengthening the support environment for their operation, including networking and so-called co-working spaces. For this purpose, €10 million is allocated, of which 40% is for subsidies and 60% is for recovery aid. It's a marriage. Justification of this comprehensive approach to the emergence and growth of cooperatives and strengthening the support environment for their operation. While cooperatives as beneficiaries are not directly mentioned in this operational programme, they can access funds from all those measures aimed at the business support environment. Thirdly, economic democracy, partnership and participatory model measures for the widest possible application of the principles of economic democracy. In this part, activities will also focus on privatisation procedures, the possibility of working purchases of healthy kernels in companies designated by the State to privatise, the provision of access to funding sources for the purchase of ownership shares of enterprises, in particular those whose claims are transferred to the DUTB. We now have at least one positive story from last week, at least 14 days, connected to the DUTB when it comes to buying TOMs from workers. Nevertheless, it is important to say that we have a number of important results achieved in this area without all these incentives from the Government in the field of Maribor or, if you want to, as far as I am concerned, Domel Ironi as a cooperatively organised, a top-notch undertaking that achieves terrible results and may ridicule our efforts for such and other privatisation, because it is evidence that even in responsible labour ownership, very positive stories can be made. Method of implementation. The Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Social Entrepreneurship continues its work in the revised composition. This week we will address to all relevant stakeholders a letter appointing members of the Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for social entrepreneurship. The leadership of the Social Entrepreneurship Council is under the responsibility of the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, because we are the bearers of this project. However, there is an operational project group at the level of the cabinet of the Prime Minister, where discussions are taking place on these strategic issues. We also have a coordination group on MGRT. It is a matter of different resources, so there is a great deal of coordination in this work with other ministries, especially the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Areas where we see opportunities for companies in this social entrepreneurship, to society, but are: rural development – this is the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, matters in the field of agricultural society are already historically defined; energy efficiency – this is the Ministry of Infrastructure; creative industries – this is the Ministry of Culture and economic democracy measures in cooperation with the Ministry of Public Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u309	Thank you very much. Mrs Maruša Škopac will ask the Minister for Economic Development, Technology, Mr Zdravek Počovalska. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u310	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravka I ask. We know that the tourism industry has one of the higher multipliers in the economy and that it contributes 12% to the total gross social product, but in 2013 only three of all companies in Slovenian tourism acted positively. Our hotels average only 40% of their capacity. While tourism in Europe is growing, it is declining in Slovenia. The number of nights in the last year has dropped by 10%. We know you come from tourism and you know the industry well. I'm interested in that. You have prepared an amendment to the three laws that will allow the WTO to be excluded from SPIRIT: What added value will this have for Slovenian tourism? What will your WTO development strategy be in the future, that industry indicators will turn in the right direction and that all tourism capacities built over the last few years will also be profitable? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u311	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Zdravko Restoršek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u312	Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! Madam Members, thank you for asking. I must say, tourism is, in some ways, an inexhaustible opportunity. We have a strategy, we have 13, 12% of GDP in tourism, as you said, we have solid physical results and, above all, negative financial results in recent years. It has to be said that we have been staggering over the past three years that we have not taken significant steps since the strategy we set ourselves three years ago, especially if we are looking at finance alone, we are still lagging behind the initial 2 billion euro inflows from avian tourism. There are several reasons for this, and the fact is that the transition to the crisis did not follow in this promotional sense the needs of the economy. On the other hand, this must also be said that the tourism economy is to a greater extent negative because of the privatisation processes than because of the current business results themselves. But nevertheless, the potential for growth and development is only in that we will sell our capacities and services to a greater extent on the foreign market, if we want to do so, the basis for better promotion of Slovenia abroad. The foundation of this is the independent Slovenian tourism organisation, which I believe will be established tomorrow in the National Assembly with the adoption of the law. Of course, it's just the first step. In tourism, a number of things need to be done if we are to realize the 3 billion euro inflow from avian tourism, if we are to increase the number of employees by 10,000 and if we are to get our companies into a positive story. The point is that we will have to work in at least three ways, and this is the first time that we will have to organise the operation of the Slovenian tourism organisation in terms of stable financing in a way that will not depend solely on the state budget, secondly that we will do something for better connectivity and transport accessibility of Slovenia and thirdly that it will take one step forward in the internationalisation of the Slovenian tourism economy in two areas. First of all, we will sell more of our services outside, and that we will, and here, believe me, it is also necessary to internationalise the ownership structure of Slovenian tourist companies for access to foreign markets, for access to new knowledge, and if you want capital for growth and development. I believe that the establishment of the Slovenian tourism organisation is the first step towards giving tourism the importance that goes with its multiplicity and that we will come to justify the belief that it is selected among the five important economic sectors in Slovenia that have a priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u313	Thank you very much. Ms Andreja Katič will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Stanka Setnikar Cankar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u314	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister! The Slovenian public school is based on the assumptions of professional autonomy and ideological neutrality. As such, the public enjoys an appropriate high level of trust. In recent times, however, the pressures on autonomous public education seem to be increasing also due to the fragile stability of public finances in this area. We believe that such pressures must be strongly resisted and measures taken to protect the quality and accessibility of a public autonomous school. I will continue to touch on two cases, which we have seen in recent months, in addition to the 100% requirement for public private financing. The first example is the call for an art competition addressed to the directors and directors of Slovenian primary schools by the political group of the European People's Party in cooperation with the Association for the Values of Slovenia's Independence. The letter was signed by the official of the Slovenian Democratic Party in the Council of the Municipality of Ljubljana. The prize for winners, mentors and parents is a trip to Brussels to the Vice-President of the Slovenian Democratic Party. The second case was blamed by the Government itself when it submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for amendments to the Decree on the Conversion of the University of Ljubljana. This suggests that the Theological Faculty should acquire a new field of study, namely education and education of teachers. While this is a small step, it is another in a series of many, when a certain religious organization tries to enter a laity, secular neutral space and thereby undermine the principle of separation between the Church and the State, as set out in Article 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Dear Minister, not only are we witnessing the establishment of a private education system to be financed by public funds, but also attempts are being made to burden public education politically and ideologically. That's why, Madam Secretary, I'm asking you: What is the position of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport on the integration of a particular political group into the work and the primary school programme? What reasons did the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport lead in the preparation of the Proposal for Amendments to the Decree on the Conversion of the University of Ljubljana in order to enable the Theological Faculty in the existing teacher education system? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u315	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Stanka Setnikar Cankar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u316	Honourable Presidents, honourable Members and Members, colleague Minister and Minister! I thank Ambassador Andreja Katič for the question raised. Let me actually answer in a row. You asked two questions. On the first question, I would say that with regard to the intervention of political groups in the work and curriculum of primary school – a similar question already raised by Mr Danilo Anton Ranc – the situation is quite clear. Always trying to determine whether such initiatives, you mentioned the case, could interfere with the work of the primary school, with the law relating to the autonomy of the school premises clearly defining when and in which cases these interventions are possible, especially when they are not possible because they could be defined as political acts. In response to your second question, what reasons did the Ministry lead in the preparation of the Draft Amendment of the Decree on the Conversion of the University of Ljubljana in a way that allows the Faculty of Theology to do so in the existing teacher education system, I have to cut back a little bit. It follows from the documentation that the study area of educational science and teacher education at the University of Ljubljana University of Theology has been added to its statute at the 24th Senate meeting. 5. 2011 and meeting of the Management Board 12. 5. 2011, to which she obtained the government's consent 29. 3. 2012. All well ahead of this government's term of office. In 2012, the University of Ljubljana accredited the University of Ljubljana to the National Quality Agency of the Republic of Slovenia and entered the two subjects of the second degree of Theology in the Ministry of Higher Education. The University of Ljubljana has already tendered for this study programme, for which you asked, in the study year 2012/2013, as well as 2013/2014, 2014/2015 and 2015/2016. In this academic year 2014/2015, one student is re-entered in the first year, five students are enrolled in the second year, a total of six students. The second part of this study is performed by these students at the Faculty of Philosophy in certain subjects. So by this Decree on amendments and additions to the Decree on the Reformation of the University of Ljubljana, implemented by this government, in addition to what you have stated, some college seats are changing, changing street names and so on. In this particular case, however, they only add study areas which, as I have pointed out, have already been added, on the basis of the decision of the University Senate, the 2011 University Administrative Committee and the 2012 Government Decision. So now it is the final administrative arrangement of something that the authorities of the university and the previous government, far ahead of this government, have already confirmed.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u317	Thank you very much. Here you are, Mrs. Andreja Katič, a supplement to the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u318	Thank you for that part of the answer. I believe that these cases still need to be responded decisively if we really advocate quality, accessible and, above all, autonomous public education. Anyway, I'm curious: With what measures will the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport strengthen the world-renowned and political neutral education in Slovenia, is now said to be in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u319	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Stanka Setnikar Cankar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u320	Thank you very much. This is a matter of study programmes, which, of course, belongs to the autonomy of higher education organisations or the University. The Ministry in this particular case, when the University adopts certain programmes on its own bodies, when accredited by the National Agency, does not have the authority to interfere with the implementation of these programmes. He can, of course, make a suggestion to the Government to adopt a certain position on such proposals from higher education institutions, but as I can see from the data provided to me, in 2012, the government, the then government, also confirmed this.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u321	Thank you very much. With this we have ended the so-called first round and are moving on to the second round of questions of Members and Members. Mag. Miriam Bon Klanjšček will ask the Minister of Culture mag. Juliani Bizjak Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u322	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, on the eve of the cultural holiday, you said in a conversation for national television, quote: "In this context we will also make changes in the area of self-employed people who are now exploited by both NGOs and sometimes public institutions." How can you see some kind of contradiction between self-employed and non-governmental organisations if the majority of self-employed in the field of art operate in NGOs? More than 2 000 300 self-employed in culture on the one hand, on the other hand, barely 100 employees in non-governmental cultural organisations, as most of the culture-based cultures active in non-governmental organisations have the status of self-employed in culture, as this status is more tax-favoured. As I understand it, you want to convince us that self-employed people in culture are exploiting self-employed people in culture. It doesn't work together. The absurdity of your claim was also pointed out by Andrej Srakar of the Society Association, who, among other things, said that he hoped kindly that you had made a mistake. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you: Which NGOs and public institutions exploit self-employed people? In what way? What will the Ministry do in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u323	Thank you very much. Minister of Culture Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u324	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Minister, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! Dear Member of the Mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, thank you for your question. You quoted a part from a few minutes of conversation at the Echoes about culture before Prešeren's day, Slovenia's cultural holiday. Among other things, there was talk about self-employed people, where I explained to the Head of Echo, among other things, what caused the problems of youth employment in public institutions. As you may know, this is an agreement between the social partners, which continues at the time of the current government, after which the number of employees in public institutions is reduced by 1% each year. Clearly, there are virtually no new jobs. Young people lose their jobs and move among the holiday workers. Some in the field of culture. A greater number of self-employed people in the field of culture are not significantly different from other such employees, who are referred to as penal workers, according to data and interviews with them. At the Ministry of Culture, we formed a dialogue group to help us detect the problems of self-employed people in order to solve the problems of self-employed people. This will enable us, together with the self-employed in the dialogue, to find solutions, the best solutions within the framework of available options. The documentation on calls and calls from recent years shows that producers in Slovenia have very different practices in relation to the art-gallery, regardless of whether they are public institutions or NGOs. Some considered this type of fee to be self-evident and took it into account all the years before the introduction of exhibitions as a mandatory condition in public tenders. Many, including NGOs, public institutions and private individuals do not recognize this cost today. Many even believe that an artist can be happy if offered an exhibition, squeeze a catalogue, invite a curator to give an opening speech, perhaps even a designer, to create a catalogue, performing the program, to order a treat. In the end, everyone is paid, only the author remains empty. We have a lot of information about artists applying for the services of the Ministry of Culture with the confirmation of the co-organizer of the museum, the gallery, including private or non-governmental organisations, which provided them with the only space, they all had to finance themselves. At the Ministry of Culture, where we try to help the creators to the best of our ability, including with the gradual growth of financial resources, we often witness the sad stories of artists who were invited to exhibit and then they had to do everything and finance themselves, sometimes even leave some artistic work behind. Apart from the few exceptions, no one dared to speak publicly, for he was afraid that in an environment where we all know each other and we are very neglectful, he would be completely incapacitated. However, we also have many examples of very good practices. There's a lot of talk in public about the laundromat work, even after various forums. Anyone who wants to learn about the exploitations experienced by holiday workers on a daily basis, including part of the self-employed in culture, should attend one of the forums, meetings, for example, our dialogue group. They can also be consulted in trade unions or in those who do pens. It is simply a system of exploitation, which has been established after Slovenia's independence and even at the time of economic crisis, also for us, where employers want as little cost as possible from those with which they conclude contracts of work. In doing so, people are not viewed as needing a decent wage for their survival and for the survival of their families. The difference between payments and the rights of regular employees and compensatory workers is considerable. This causes unjustified conflicts between employees and those who are not, problems with dumping and the like. Unfortunately, the current trend is going in the countries of the European Union and in the world in the wrong direction. More exploitation of employees and an increase in the number of more used penitentiaries. In culture, there is nothing different than elsewhere, and it is illustrative to expect that with some change in laws that some self-employed people expect from the Ministry of Culture, without significant changes, the situation of workers' rights in general and without significant financial contributions can be fully solved by the problem of cultural overcrowding, even though we will try to do that [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u325	Thank you very much. Here you go, mag. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u326	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary! I'm not really happy with the answer, so I'd like a refill. The case that you have cited regarding visual artists already in Odessa is, in fact, absurd. You made sure, you say, that the self-employed received the money themselves, but not that they would get it from the exploitative NGOs, and so they will quote, "The artists themselves will have their master and will be able to open the exhibition themselves with these funds", as you said in the interview. In my opinion, you don't understand the way from the creator to the designer. You obviously care about the quality of creativity, because you think the artist can open the exhibition on his own. It's about as if the writer would publish a book without an editor. Are you aware of the responsibility for the materialization of art that you create with this? I guess not. And it is even more obvious that such moves of yours are not based on any particular analysis that you are also enthusiastically promising. If any of the operators avoid paying for exhibitions, then the Ministry must act and claim reimbursement of public funds. And when you say that self-employed people have to be protected, I totally agree with you. They must be protected against exactly the kind of handball moves you have committed. I want to know: What will you do to improve the situation of self-employed people? How many operators have failed to respect the contractual obligations regarding the payment of exhibitions?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u327	Thank you very much. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u328	Thank you very much. One part of these, that is, those exploitative ones, I wouldn't speak that way, but it's true that there's been exploitation, just like there's been the exploitation of penitentiaries everywhere. There's no point in fooling around here. The Ministry of Culture will do its utmost to prevent this, of course, in accordance with its options, in accordance with legislation. This year, it also decided to protect the employees through the form of an invitation to tender for so-called open studios. With this move, no one has been prevented by the Ministry, only the availability of public funds is widening by giving the Ministry of Culture more opportunities to the most vulnerable group of self-employed people. I must say that this is why we have also received many praises from these very sides. But there's really a lot of problems, and we're all dealing with them. What is important and what we want to do is to change the status of self-employed people. Although it has to be said that there are also differences between the wishes of self-employed people. We are in the process of preventing employers from entering into a contract on the one hand. It's all kind of a two-way sword. However, we want to provide protection; of course, the decision is then self-employed, so that we have the opportunity to conclude a collective agreement and to protect ourselves more. Accordingly, we have already aligned ourselves with the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, because we first wanted them to open a collective agreement, but they do not want to do so; so we are preparing a change under our legislation. At the same time, I would like to mention some other problems that we are experiencing, and we also need to talk to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. We are aware of the problem – at least we have seen it as a problem, we need to find out if this is true — that is, contributions should be counted as a basis for not being eligible for financial social assistance from self-employed people. In fact, it is poverty experienced by young artists, including some older ones, that is a lot of problems that need to be solved. And I believe we're going to save a lot of things with good faith. However, there are also different desires within the framework of self-employed people. I think it's a great idea to introduce a basic universal income. However, it is illusory to expect this to be resolved only in the area of culture, but not in the whole country if such proposals arise. In short, there are also needs that require [[microphone extrusion]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u329	Thank you very much. Here you go, mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, a proposal for a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u330	Madam Minister, I am not entirely satisfied with your answers. Moreover, you have confirmed my assumption that you are taking action without analysis and dialogue with the expert. I believe that you do not understand that the situation of self-employed people will not improve any law, but that self-employed people must have the opportunity to live and survive from their work. The lowest budget for culture in recent years will certainly not be helpful here. Therefore, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 264 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose a general debate on this subject, as well as a debate on the Committee on Culture, since this topic is very serious. There is great damage on the part of self-employed people who are an indispensable part of Slovenian culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u331	Madam Members, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on 3 March in the framework of the votes. Mr Jan Mahnic will ask the Minister for Defence Mr Janko Webr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u332	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Although I am an opposition Member and I would probably prefer to speak differently; I am probably one of the few Members who, irrespective of the situation, advocates the fact that the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which is intended for defence, needs to be increased. I am certainly also one of the few Members who is aware of the commitments that the Republic of Slovenia made to NATO at the Wales Summit at the end of last year. In Wales, there was sort of a breakthrough event for the NATO liaison, where, according to all the threats and the changed geopolitical situation, the NATO liaison reunified. Accurate and specific commitments have been made to improve defence capabilities in the future to respond to the new threats emerging in the world. The greatest emphasis was placed on the danger that then comes from the east, of course Ukraine, the war in Ukraine; and, of course, in the south, the Islamic State in the area of Syria, Iraq and Libya and Boko Haram in Nigeria. Of course, the commitments apply to everyone, including Slovenia, then Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek pledged that by 2020 Slovenia will reach 2% of GDP in defence spending and that 20% will be invested in these 2%. At present, investments are around 3%, and we are far from that 2% of GDP. Last year 0.97%, this year 0.96%. Even though we made commitments to the next year's connection, we also cut the defence budget this year. It is true that with the rebalancing that you have managed to provide five million more, but compared to last year it is six million euros less. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Minister: How are we progressing in the implementation of the NATO commitments made in Wales? Will these commitments be achieved by 2020? What's up with Nate's Readiness Action Plan right now? Is Slovenia involved here? When do you think this case will be taken? Are you thinking about what in the future, in terms of weapons and investment, a failed project to buy the eight-wheeler Patrie, which the Slovenian Army needs bloodyly? The last time I spoke with my colleagues, not long ago, the Netherlands and Germany established a joint war of a joint battalion, which complements those gaps that one country has; as we say with Italy or then with Hungary. Are you planning something like this for the future?
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u333	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u334	President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to Members of Parliament and Members and, of course, to colleagues and colleagues. With regard to the commitments made by the Heads of State and Government in Wales, it is possible to say two or define them in two areas. One relates to defence expenditure; the other relates to the commitment to maintain the contribution of commitments to the security assurances measure and, of course, the further announcement of contributions to the completion of the very high level of preparedness forces. [[Incomprehensible]] If I first touch on the defence expenditure commitments, the reality in Slovenia is the following. From 2010 to this year, we have reduced defence spending by around 40%, which means, as you mentioned in the question, that we are now investing around 3% of the budget dedicated to the development of defence. During this period, it is extremely important that we have reached the Maastricht criterion in this year's budget and, in fact, reduced the budget deficit below 3%. In the meantime, there was also a very important fact that interest rates fell drastically on loans leased abroad. We know that sometimes, or some are hired even at a 7% interest rate, this moment is moving around about 1.5%. This is very important information when we talk about how to solve the problem further. It is impossible to guarantee such high interest and, of course, to ensure development, not only by the Ministry of Defence, but also by all other sources. If trends in interest rates continue in this direction, we will be burdening our budget, which means that we will later be able to adopt substantially more development budgets in the government and the National Assembly than we can during this period from 2008 to 2010. It is true, however, that we are aware of this situation in our ministry, and in this context, we have also presented to the public on the day of civil protection the common modular capacity of the Slovenian Armed Forces, civil protection, with which we wish to stress that multi-purpose equipment is the one that we can obtain because of the need for protection against natural and other disasters and, of course, because of the need for defence. And in this sense, we are also planning to invest in our system so that multi-purpose is one of those solutions that is manageable, because we have very little resources available for the development of defence capabilities. In the future, we will also have to hope that these defence spending will no longer be reduced, because we have indeed reached a critical point; and in the fact that we have contributed more than 200 million euros to overcoming, I hope, to the greatest extent, the economic and financial crisis, that is, 200 million euros and a little over, we have assured from our ministry. Of course, it is to be expected that in the future we will maintain at least the nominal level of defence expenditure as foreseen for this year. It's 367 million euros. This would achieve the objective which was also set in Wales to stop the trend of reducing defence spending. However, over a period of 10 years, such a commitment has been made, following the possible achievement of even 2% of GDP for defence expenditure over a period of 10 years. This is the goal; it is not a commitment for which, say, Slovenia would pay a fine or something similar in relation to NATO. That's the goal that was set. I believe it will be difficult to reach it because Slovenia has never reached it in its history. It is true, however, that this trend of halting spending cuts will need to be gradually raised and invested in development.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u335	Thank you very much. Mr. Jean Mahnic, request for a supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u336	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you for your answers, Minister. I must say that Mr Weber is one of those ministers who arouses mixed feelings. If, on the one hand, I was critical when you were replacing the Chief of Staff and the Director of Military Intelligence, I must congratulate you on the event on Saturday, when you fulfilled your promise of hearing and set up this military task force to intervene in the event of natural disasters. At the same time, you have fulfilled the pre-election promise of the Slovenian Democratic Party, and we have also had this commitment in the programme. I've heard that we've reached the bottom and that you're going to argue that it's no longer shrinking. As for that, I am satisfied with the answer. I have also heard that you will advocate that at least in 10 years we should try to go to 2% of this, and I can accept it in some way. But here's the problem – here's Stoltenberg's report this year. Slovenia, as far as GDP is concerned, is still 6 countries below us that give less, but as far as investment is concerned, look, we are here, we are the last. And that's when you and Mr Cerar at Stoltenberg committed themselves to correcting this percentage. And I want to know: Can we at least expect at least 3 percent of the investments to go any further? And as I asked earlier whether you intend to do so in the future, of course this multi-purpose equipment is welcome, but I am interested now in that item that is about the General Staff, which is about the Slovenian Army, in any way to replace the Patria project that has failed. We know that, given the current needs in the Slovenian Army and the modern fighting, these armoured men serve primarily to bring the soldier quickly to the battlefield or to take him from one point to another, and that is why we need this matter. Can we expect this project to be replaced by another project after some funding is available for development? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u337	Thank you very much. Minister of Defense, Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u338	Thank you, again, for your word. To this end, I can say that the preparation of the medium-term defence programme, which we intend to provide to the Government this summer, and in this medium-term defence programme, we will try to define those objectives that will be achievable. In fact, one of the meanings of further development of the defence system is that we are not planning something that we cannot achieve then, because then it is also within the system of communication that it is difficult to play the role you have; not only for the safety of the home, but also for the safety of the region, because if you point out the essential larger equipment, then you do not realize it, you reach into the poor organisation and functioning of the entire system. The medium-term defence programme will be the one that will give a detailed answer to your question. However, the fact is that the Patria-type vehicles that remain in our system as the most efficient vehicles are the ones most suitable for the further development of our infantry defence system. It is true that we also have problems with the provision of new vehicles at this moment, but we also have problems at this point because we are dealing with the issue of the nullity of the existing contract. If they are in a situation to fully enforce the nullity of the contract of acquisition of Patriye, then these vehicles should also be returned to the supplier. Of course, the supplier would pay us because these vehicles are used, the compensation that should be calculated. But I think that if we really assess this situation, it would be very small, so that our direction, including the defence, in the sense that poverty is carried out in a way that we maintain these vehicles, but that because of the high costs that these vehicles would have incurred for the country, if we had to return, this does not happen, which shows that we want to continue to develop this system in such a way that we can effectively manage the defence of the country and also ensure all the tasks that people, citizens and citizens expect of us, when we are faced with extremely severe natural disasters that have been very extensive. Because 2% of GDP has been natural disasters in Slovenia in the last period, so we are aware of this and therefore we want to maintain this level of equipment and replace this equipment, which is worn out as soon as possible, precisely because we are in good shape with what we currently have.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u339	Thank you very much. Dr. Franc Trček will ask the Minister of the Environment and the premises of Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u340	Thank you for your word, chairman. I salute the Minister and the rest of the House! Following the major and catastrophic floods just discussed by the Minister of Defence, last year there is a €37.5 million government action plan to manage the flood threat. For the first emergency assembly to be carried out within six months, 12 million. After the abolition of the water communities of Slovenia it is an area which is carried out as a compulsory public service, regulating water in the manner of concessionaires. Most of the water companies with concessions are owned by the privatisation-building motors, if I may say so. Concessions continued illegally. This was already learned in 2007. In November 2013, the public procurement was published and last October, the Ministry adopted a decision. Except for one new concessionaire in Sochi, it's just old acquaintances. An audit request was submitted to the State Audit Commission. What's going on in practice? In practice, concessionaires relying on the action plan abuse Article 10 of the Zone, although it clearly states that exceptions must be implemented in such a way, I quote, "to least harm nature". If I mention only one concessionaire – Hydrotechnic. In January, the island was the largest stretch of the Sočina trout and in Iščica destroyed 5 km of lower flow in the Ljubljanska Barje landscape park. In both cases, he literally turned to the opinion of the Department of Nature Protection. Arso then reconfirmed this violence of environmental concessionaires. This damage to nature is contrary to the preceding article. Thus, the concessionaires determine what, how, and to what extent they will work. Because it's both an environmental and a financially important area where "what can you do to us" happens in a sheriff's way, you, Minister, I ask: How are you going to prevent such abuse of legislation and regulate the area of water regulation in such a way that Arso can properly control concessionaires? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u341	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Irene Maycen.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u342	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Member, Dr. Franz Runk! When implementing the Action Plan on Flood Security, the government, when adopting this plan, pursued a strong objective – and this is how to protect people and property from floods. The Action Plan itself does not only contain parts that are now being carried out on the ground, these are intervention works. Intervention works were considered necessary and should be carried out within six months, for in the event of repeated major rainfall, people and their possessions would be severely affected by the flood. The second part or second set of these plans is regular maintenance work and additional maintenance work. The Action Plan also has measures such as the reorganisation of water services in Slovenia. Water, of course, is not just the water that threatens us in the floods, so it is not just rainwater; it is also drinking water, it is groundwater, so water is the source of life. Water as a source of life is essential for our lives. Article 10 of the Law on the Protection of Nature states that the provisions of the law on the conservation of biodiversity and the protection of natural values do not apply to measures to address the immediate risk to the life or health of humans or property. I admit that I've used this turmeric a number of times before, so that all the laws will never be written in such a way as not to keep things open. This is impossible, despite the fact that some people imagine that everything is written in marriage. When we talk about the immediate threat to the lives or health of people and their property, I am aware of the fact that when the flood happens, there is nothing we can do to deter it. But we can do this now within six months. In this part of the Intervention Facility, the Government has certainly already taken this Article into account when adopting it. But it is true that, above all, naturalists do not allow watercourses to become a space for the entire flow of water. In fact, streams of rivers, streams or watercourses are already reduced in many parts of Slovenia, thus endangering this flow so that no more flood waves, but a little more precipitation causes the stream, the stream does not allow sufficient flow of water – and of course floods occur. As far as concessionaires are concerned, it's true. Last year, contracts were signed and the matter is now being resolved on a committee that will determine whether or not the procedures have been properly carried out. This, of course, does not mean that work is not being done right now, just now that this accuracy is even more threatened. If it is possible to focus on Soča, I would say that the contractor is part of an intervention catch of fish, for the first time on 6 January and for the second time on 22 January; that is, before the work begins. There was also an agreement with the fishing family, and I do not have the data, as you state. It is true, however, that this procedure is also carried out at the Ministry of Fisheries and Fisheries, that is, at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, Fisheries and Fisheries. The results will then be forwarded to this Ministry. But it is true that because of this damage to the Soča coast, it is approximately 300 meters long. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Local road Kobarid-Ladra-Tolmin and it is still in direct danger that the first watershed of the river Soča lowers this hill and that this road [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u343	Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u344	Thank you for your word. I'm afraid I'm not satisfied with the answer. I can say it's another area within your department that's been neglected. At the floods, there was a lot of talk about this, of course, we somehow agree that the infrastructure will be restored, but not at the expense of the fracturing that concessionaires afford – and that is somehow a problem. Of course, we need some inter-resort coordination, something at the agriculture department, something under your department, we basically have some triangle concessionaire, the nature protection agency, Arso. Apparently, these things don't count. I can't tell you anything else. Today I received an answer to a written question that I asked you about Soča. It kind of says here, before the work was started, there was a tour of the site where the caves were not observed, which is kind of a surprise to me if it's one of the biggest. And then it goes on, on the basis of the above facts, we can assume that the intervention in question did not cause any damage to the aquatic life or that it was limited to a minimum. I believe someone wrote this to you; I don't know, it's a joke. The fishermen will freak out when they hear that. And if we look at this Article in any way, it makes it very clear, in the second indent, that the provision of the preceding paragraph applies only to the duration of a direct threat that is no longer present. And in the fourth indent, the measure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be selected, which shall, when the same effects are achieved, at least harm to nature. And that's actually the problem. Because my time is running out, I went to look at the hydrotechnique on the Supervisor, and in 12 years he got 125 million euros. This is an area where there is a relatively large amount of money that has been neglected; and somehow concessionaires dictate the story and not the other way around.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u345	Ms Irena Majcen, Minister for the Environment and Space, has the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u346	Thank you, President. I must say, Dr. Trček, if you were to participate in this interview, which we had with the association of fishing families, but also the representative of the Tolmin Fish family, then you would know that what I am saying is checked with them. I admit we don't all have to understand. I think that makes perfect sense. I know a little bit about bold caves, but I don't. But if the fishermen made two exploits, that is, six and twenty-two. 1. This means that they were in contact with the concessionaire and had a conversation. Your claim that rogue caves have been destroyed is your claim, and may also be confirmed by an inspection for hunting and fishing. I've talked to people myself, and I don't have that kind of information. As for the immediate danger, I also said so. Those who do not live by the water do not experience what the water brings, then can say that it is a direct danger on the day when it rains, when the flood is already out. On the day of the flood, almost nothing can be done in solving this matter, praying that it will go into the stream and ensure a normal flow. [[Incomprehensible]] That's only possible in the imaginary world. Therefore, measures are taken six months after the last floods, which should actually have been implemented much earlier. That's what we agree on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u347	The text for a procedural proposal for a debate is set out by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u348	Yeah, I need some personal history, then a procedural proposal. My parents literally met at Kolpa. I used to serve in engineering units, pontoons. Most of my life is near rivers, so I know these things very well. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246, I propose that this subject be discussed at the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u349	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 3 March 2015, in the framework of the votes. We turn to the next question raised by Dr. Petr Gasperšić to the Minister of Infrastructure. Franz the Crusader. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u350	President, representatives of the government, respectable High Council! The idea of the Slovenian Highway Cross was first created as the idea of moving from Gorica to Šentilj or Nova Gorica to Šentilj, the first serious analytical intervention in 1969. In 1972 we built the first section of the highway on this move, then this gradually complemented, remember, with various semi-roads and similar, cost-saving setup. Then the matter changed again. They built a solid financial base with what's called a gas tolar. The idea for him came from our institute. And so in 1995 we adopted, on the basis of a series of analyses and experiences, the so-called National Programme for the Construction of Motorways in Slovenia. It was completed in 1998 and 2004. This programme foresees two types of impacts. One and the most important development impact in this case is the connection between sites internationally and within the country. The second is a multiplier or effect on economic growth when these roads are being built. In particular, this developmental impact has proved to be, and can even be empirically confirmed, because the places that lie by the highway achieve better economic results, investments are made, companies can develop there, people are also more mobile, they can find employment elsewhere and they can create a standard of living. From here the idea for new developmental axes both against Koroška, White Krajina, the fast road to Kočev, then this road from Škofje Loka or the connection of Škofja Loka to Tolmin and Kobarid. I want to know what it's like to end the highway. Basically, it is said that the foundation was built against the end of the Pahor government. We were just there when these projects ended. It was a lot of work in Dolenjska that we found permits. However, a few small endings were not completed. Three, I'd say from my memory. One is Ptuj-Pruškovje, which is now being built, and the other two are Izola-Lucia and Ptuj-Ormoz. And now I'm curious, and the question is for a long time, you've probably read it: How is the strategy now with this completion of the original highway cross? I am particularly interested in the section of Ptuj-Ormož and Izola-Lucia, in particular because there are or rumors that people are going around and explaining that this section of Ptuj-Ommož, where ten million have already been invested, will not be built.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u351	Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, responds.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u352	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Member, Dr. Franz Križanič, thank you for asking the question! First, I would like to tell you some general facts about the preparation of the strategy, and then I will discuss a specific issue concerning the road section of Ptuj-Ommož. In short, you have already mentioned on the subject that public consideration of the Transport Development Strategy and the accompanying consideration of the environmental report for a comprehensive environmental impact assessment for the Transport Development Strategy took place by 31 January 2015, which began on 15 December 2014. Currently, at the Ministry, we are conducting an analysis of all the comments received, which, I must say, have not been very few. With these comments, we will complete or reject both documents with appropriate justification. This analysis of the comments to be prepared by the first half of March 2015 will, of course, also be published on the website of the Ministry of Infrastructure. The adoption of the strategy itself is expected on the government somewhere by June 2015. The strategy also took into account the Resolution on the National Programme for the Construction of Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, which you mentioned as one of the most important starting points. However, it is necessary to know that the resolution itself has in fact ceased to be formally in force on the basis of the transitional provisions of the Roads Act on 1 April 2011. However, we have taken into account its provisions in the transport development strategy and have not missed any road links that have been addressed in the strategy. In short, all these links have also been addressed and taken into account in the preparation of the Transport Development Strategy. All of these links, which were already in the original highway programme, are simplified, as well as the supplementary programme, are taken into account. However, it is important to note here that the strategy as a strategic document does not address concrete projects, it does not go to the project level, it is said that we will solve what transport problem with a concrete solution; it points to solutions. This was also one of the European Commission's or Jaspers's requests, which also contributed to the preparation of a strategy where it was said as one of the starting points that the strategy should be a strategic document. On the basis of this, we will also draw up operational plans, which will then also serve as a basis for defining concrete measures and ways to address specific transport problems. I would also say that the Transport Development Strategy does not only deal with road transport, but in its entirety with all areas of transport, it is also said that railways, air transport, maritime transport, as well as public passenger transport. In short, we are trying to address all areas of transport and, as such, it is also an appropriate basis to justify some projects applying for European funding. In short, if they are justified by the strategy, this pumping is also appropriately supported in this way. As regards the Koper-Lucia project, activities continue here to complete this link. On the coastline then we have a dilemma, or we have to develop a link from Kopra to Dragonja, so in this sense we will still have to explore whether we will be doing two of these quality links against the Croatian border, or whether we will decide to focus on just one. We're leaning in this direction. With regard to Ptuj-Ommož, I can say that we have great problems of placing in space there, especially past Ptuj Lake, where we know that we have problems with the civil requirements of the countries on the one hand; on the other hand, we have restrictions on the protection itself, the announced Natura area. So we're going to have to think there, too. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u353	The following raises the question of Violet Tomić, Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u354	Thank you for your word, distinguished president, distinguished ministers and colleagues! We have already touched on this issue a little today, but still. This week, the Slovenian public was once again informed that it is not properly provided for the treatment, education and education of children and minors with severe behavioural and emotional problems. This is about children and minors who were child victims of domestic violence. These children and minors are often dangerous to themselves and the environment. The 2010 report of the Institute for Social Protection indicates that 288 such children were considered in 2009 and that they were expected to be 300 years later. There is no suitable accommodation for them in our health and social care system. If I quote the findings of the Institute for Social Protection: "It is too often that protective institutions or youth homes, despite a decision to install, refuse the admission of such children, as a result such children and adolescents may in extreme cases be treated even in protected wards of psychiatric hospitals, together with adult patients, which is unacceptable. The placement of children in protected psychiatric clinics is not only unacceptable, but contrary to the Mental Health Act and the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The courts shall, as a rule, revoke these accommodations. But the worst part is that children don't have the right help." I don't understand how this is possible, because a children's department was built at the Psychiatric Clinic in Ljubljana a few years ago. This was created precisely because of the need to ensure adequate care for children with such problems. However, this section remains empty because an appropriate programme has not yet been adopted so far, on the basis of which the department could begin to operate. It should also be stressed that paediatric and psychiatric care is also needed when children are placed in protective institutions. Why is the Children's Department of the Psychiatric Clinic in Ljubljana still not being used for this purpose? When will the Ministry carry out all procedures for the operation of this department and what will you do at the Ministry for children and adolescents who need comprehensive and appropriate care for tragic childhood? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u355	Answers Minister of Health Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u356	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Member, Members, Comrade Minister! Allow me to start by saying that the actual Ministry of Health is very active in supporting the establishment of a protected psychiatric department for children and adolescents, which is why the Ministry of Health has already called on an extended professional psychiatry college on 6 July 2009 to prepare a proposal for a programme for the protected psychiatric department for children and adolescents. On the basis of the Ministry's call for this task, the Expanded College of Psychiatrics appointed a special expert working group, which prepared the programme and presented it as such. Let me say that the extended professional colleges are the highest professional institutes for individual areas in Slovenia, which make individual proposals for additional programmes to the Health Council, appointed by the Minister of Health, and then the Health Council proposes both a priority programme and a method of financing. As the process actually started in 2009, as you know, there have also been longer periods due to the exchange of ministries since the health council was not established and did not work. Before my arrival, there were more than 14 months of so-called empty walking when the health council did not work, and that was why it was not possible to decide on this programme. Let me say that we have now intensified matters very much, according to the President of the Health Council, these matters will be dealt with as soon as possible. In my opinion, the expert committee has already obtained further analyses, a comparison with similar protected departments in the European Union, so that from this place I can ensure that the Ministry, together with the Health Council and the Public Institute of Psychiatrics and the Health Insurance Institute, which must provide the money for the programme, will be resolved as soon as possible, in autumn of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u357	Request for a response, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u358	Thank you for your word. Dear Madam Secretary! A while ago, you participated in a public television show on the subject of lack of nurses in intensive departments. At that time, you made four very specific promises, three short - term and one long - term promises. I hope you will fulfill them, but we will certainly follow your work closely. I would also like such concrete promises in this case. Moreover, I would also like to ensure that these promises are also fulfilled. As a matter of fact, this problem hasn't happened since yesterday. Six years ago, the Mountain Protection Institute gave the Ombudsman an initiative to regulate the area. The Ombudsman notes in the report: We introduced the proposal of the association in June 2009 to the Ministry of Health and warned that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia commits us to providing special protection and care to children. The issue is therefore even more of a concern, as the country which, if necessary, needs to act and ensure such protection and care as is necessary for their well-being has cancelled in this area. In a reply in July 2009, the Ministry found that our claims regarding the absence of intensive child care units were correct and therefore wanted to solve the problem as soon as possible. The Ministry of Health has not been defined within the prescribed time limit for the Ombudsman's initiative. The Ombudsman considers that the irregular conditions for hospital pedosophiatric treatment of children constitute a violation of children's rights. However, the Ministry of Health did not respond adequately to the Ombudsman's initiative. It has been almost six years since this finding, the ministry has been aware of the problem, but the Ombudsman's initiative has been slightly ignored. During the six years, while everyone at the Ministry was regularly paid for their work, they did not remedy this constant violation of children's rights.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u359	Ms Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Health, has the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u360	I am aware of this problem, and I can assure you from this place very responsible that as Minister of Health, I will do everything I can to ensure that violations of the Convention of the Rights of the Child will no longer occur. However, I think that I have also demonstrated in this short period of the ministry that I have tried and appointed the Health Council before it is legally established; and that we have actually accelerated the very intensive work of the Health Council committees and the work of this Council, which will and will set priorities for hearings. I can assure you from this place, even after speaking to the President of the Health Council of Prof. Dr. Strlett, that this will be addressed as soon as they receive the proposal in the autumn; and this problem will be resolved.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u361	Violeta Tomić has a procedural proposal for a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u362	Thank you so much for saying that. Madam Minister, I am pleased that you will stop this practice of violating the rights of the child, because at least 10 years in dealing with children with serious behavioural disorders, this situation has been maintained which has caused these violations. And when these children and adolescents are 18 years of age, they are officially no longer a problem because they are full - grown; but the consequence of neglecting this problem is indescribable suffering, often ending even with suicide. Many of them are also endangering their surroundings, including, unfortunately, juvenile murderers and full - time perpetrators of the worst crimes. A lot of this suffering could be prevented without a lot of money. That is why I repeat the words of the Ombudsman six years ago. "The State which, if necessary, must act and ensure such protection and care as is necessary for their well-being has cancelled in this area." Therefore, unlike my colleague Žibert, I remain optimistic and, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I request that we hold a debate on the Minister's response and commit her to approach this unsustainable situation without delay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u363	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 3 March 2015, in the framework of the votes. The following Miha Kordish asks Mr Jank Vebra, Minister for Defence.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u364	Thank you for your word. From the news published by the STA on 5 February 2015, you intend to propose to the Government the allocation of funds for defence expenditure from the Maastricht criteria. According to the information I have at my disposal, your position and the position of the whole government is to increase defence spending to 2% of gross social product by 2020. Although someone on behalf of Slovenia reportedly submitted this commitment to the NATO Summit in Wales, when you were not yet a minister, this government is a real precursor. Coalition parties, including your Social Democrats, supported the proposal for a fiscal rule law. The proposal for this law severely limits the budget deficit allowed. To the extent that it is known, the Government does not plan measures to increase budgetary revenue. The European Commission is expected to allow exceptions to public expenditure on investment, but, as far as I know, the European Commission is thinking about investment in infrastructure and development, not in weapons and military operations of NATO. This means that any increase in defence expenditure is possible only if the money is found in some other areas. This year, the Ministry of Defence budget is €338 million and 0.97% of gross social product. This means that over the next few years you need to find about €400 million if you want to meet the NATO target, which is obviously your personal goal. You're the Secretary of Defense. You're fighting for him. By the way, most of the expenditure in Slovenia is currently spent on public servants' salaries and on pensions and social assistance. That's why I want to know: What areas do you intend to confiscate in order to achieve this goal of NATO? Or perhaps you do not intend to reach it at all, but it is a more uncommitted statement. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u365	Mr Janko Weber, Minister for Defence, responds.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u366	President, thank you for your word. My proposal to exclude defence expenditure from the Maastricht criteria is that more resources remain then within the Maastricht criteria for social and investment. Indeed, that is the key objective that we must achieve in order for the country to function normally. However, the fact is that state security cannot depend on whether or not a criterion is met. The security of the State must be ensured in any case. Especially in situations where we are facing extraordinary natural disasters today, Slovenia is in fact extremely threatened by natural disasters. I have already said that 2% of gross domestic product is damaged by natural disasters, which means that we have not recovered around €700 million of damage to the economy, we have not reimbursed the infrastructure, we have not reimbursed the households. In short, it's one thing that's left inconspicuous. 45 million of these expenditure is solely due to the costs of intervention. And if the security of the country is rooted in the Maastricht criteria, then we cannot react when such a difficult situation occurs as they were in Slovenia due to natural disasters. Slovenia must successfully integrate and update its security system for the reason that, today, virtually one country is no longer able to provide security that can be threatened by aggression from other countries. Only by acting together, the Alliance can you guarantee it. Therefore, this commitment was also made in Wales to try to organise all countries in a way that meets these criteria. I am not pretending to provide in Slovenia in 10 years 2% of GDP for defence spending. However, I point out that the security system, the defence system, must be built over the decades, if you will, even through the centuries. The security of the State cannot be guaranteed at the time of aggression or natural disaster. Then it's not the time for a public invitation to go get some equipment to train people. All of this must be prepared when there is peace, when the time is right; and you need money to do so. And if the security of the country is excluded from the Maastricht criteria, we can do this all the time. And look, there is no way that we are allowed to get into a situation where we are talking today in Slovenia about not having money for the police. That's unacceptable! That's a threat to the security of the state. It's unacceptable that we don't have the money when I said it before to deal with the consequences of natural disasters. This damage amounted to EUR 700 million. It is unacceptable that we do not have a modernly equipped Slovenian army. If we are in this situation, of course we are a vulnerable country. In fact, a very large question can then be asked whether we will be able to provide social security, economic growth, a successful education system — in view of the threat to the security of the country. The security of citizens and citizens is one that allows for successful economic growth as well as social security. All these are the reasons why I went in this direction of thinking to try to point out when it is time for the security of the state not to fall into the Maastricht criteria. And also fiscal rule, here I must say that the Social Democrats opposed the entry of fiscal rule into the Constitution. The implementing law itself, which will be adopted by a two-thirds majority, was supported at first reading. Of course, this law will have to be concluded. And our goal is certainly to keep as much resources for the social state as possible through the fiscal rule, as this is also a constitutional category. However, in order not to interfere with the defence system in the social state, I am, of course, pointing to another constitutional provision, which also speaks of the need to ensure the security of the State in a way that does not endanger other sources. My proposal is to give more resources for social, infrastructure and development through the Maastricht criteria; the defence and security of the country should be excluded.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u367	Miha Kordiš has the floor to make a request for a reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u368	Thank you so much for saying that. Then the expenditure of 2% of GDP – in principle, we do not associate this with natural disasters, but with various imperialist expeditions abroad and other hegemonic operations of Western metropolises, so that I also deal with these matters somewhat separately. No one has absolutely nothing against strengthening our preventive and curative capacities in the event of natural disasters. Of course, we are talking about something completely different when we are talking about interventions abroad, about the relationship between NATO and others. The Golden Rule, the Golden Rule Enforcement Act, is separate from the Maastricht criteria. I wanted to point out exactly these two to exclude, on the one hand, the area of defence from the Maastricht criteria; on the other hand, you are a member of the Coalition Party of Social Democrats, which supported the implementing Law on Fiscal Rule. Which means we'll find each other between the hammer and the fork. The country does not work, nor does this government obviously intend to do anything on the revenue side of the budget. On the other hand, we have a golden rule here, a fiscal rule that limits expenditure. This means that we can strengthen the defence budget, we can only raise this money by taking it somewhere else, and we need 400 additional millions. And that was really the heart of my question. You've made very good the contextualization of what I said, but this heart has remained unholy. Where do you plan to take these 400 additional millions? Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u369	Mr Janko Weber, Minister for Defence, has the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u370	Thank you. We certainly do not intend to take EUR 400 million, but the fact is that if the defence system had as much resources as it had in 2010, it would certainly have entered this system of fiscal rules more broadly, because it could provide security without problems. I have already said that this budget has been reduced by more than 200 million in 2010 to this day, and therefore ensuring the security of the country is significantly more difficult than having 200 million more resources. It is not realistic to expect to achieve 2% of the gross domestic product for defence expenditure in Slovenia at any time. I can say this calmly right now. In fact, the fiscal rule allows for serious economic problems or serious security problems or problems arising from natural disasters to create exceptions. I point out that this momentary fiscal rule law is not adopted, it is in the stage of discussion – and this is the time when we need to discuss how to prepare ourselves properly for the moment when it is necessary to distribute the funds, as you have correctly identified, among all the resources. And again, my intention is to eliminate the defence system and the security system of the state – here I mean both protection against natural disasters and the Ministry of the Interior, then, of course, this system will not affect social security, it will not affect social security, it will not affect investment, it will not affect other sectors. Today, we just need to talk about it and try to shape positions that would allow it. I think we need to be aware that the security of the country is extremely important. And if we also create a fiscal law, an implementing law of a fiscal rule in a way that ensures security in all situations, then we can also provide a social state in the future. However, we do not want to interfere with social transfers, we do not want to interfere with other expenditure, but we want to ensure the security of the country. This will be an important agreement within the country, how much we can contribute to security, how much for social, how much for roads, how much for the economy and so on. This agreement will have to be reached, but my proposal was to exclude it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u371	Miha Kordiš has the floor for a procedural proposal for a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u372	Thank you for your word. I propose that one of the upcoming meetings should hold a debate on the Minister's response, because it seems to me that it is still clear that we are dealing with some contradiction, with some fundamental contradiction, which I do not know at this time, and I can also say intuitively that the Minister himself has detected, namely that our declared objectives are in defence, in the security field in difficulty, in contravention of other policies of the European Union, starting with the Maastricht criteria; therefore, you have also proposed exceptions to these criteria, as well as to our own internal, in short-term implementing constitutional fiscal commitments. In the United Left, we propose and think that this contradiction can be resolved very quickly by withdrawing from NATO. If we look at small numbers, comparisons, very quickly we find that the neighbouring Austria, which is a neutral country in 2012, has spent 40% less on defence than Slovenia. It is also difficult to understand why one Slovenia must have a fully professional army if Austria can have a recruitment army. Part of the response to the interests here in the background is also in the data that the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces had 198 members on 30 June 2002 and 417 members on 9 December last year, twice as many. In short, we have a problem, a fundamental problem, a fundamental contradiction. I think we need to talk about him. We need to start talking about this, including the role played by the NATO alliance in this contradiction, not least the European Union; and start thinking about the second, different direction of our policy, and we do not need to look at the neighbouring Austria as a starting point. At one of the next meetings, I propose a debate on the Minister's response. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-03-02-SDZ7-Redna-05.ana.u373	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 3 March 2015, in the framework of the votes. With this, we have exhausted the list of questions sent. To the President of the Government, ministers and ministers, I thank you for the answers given. I hereby end this agenda item, which we will continue tomorrow, 3 March 2015, when the National Assembly decides on the proposed decisions in the framework of the votes. I also adjourn the fifth session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
