ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the 10th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mrs Mag. Tanja Zink, Mr Janez Janša and Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker. I welcome everyone here. We're moving on to 26. At the end of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a declaration on the foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a declaration was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. In order to further explain the proposal for a declaration, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Minister Karl Erjavac.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. Even on my part, everyone has a nice greeting! However, I thank the gold for its good cooperation in preparing a declaration on the foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia. It should be said that we have already discussed the first draft declaration on the foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia on 14 November last year on the Committee on Foreign Affairs and on the Committee on European Affairs. From February to April there were three public hearings, the last public hearing was held by the Committee on Foreign Policy here in the National Assembly, before in the Council of State and also in Jabla. I am very pleased that both scientific institutions and universities, civil society, have been involved in the preparation of this declaration. Here I would specifically mention the Slovenian Society for International Law, the former ambassadors' club. So I think the debate on the declaration was extremely thorough. We have also collected comments on the website. I think it is right that after 16 years we get a new declaration, the 1999 declaration has actually been fulfilled. The main objectives were to join NATO, the European Union and the OECD. We have also achieved these goals. It is true, however, that the international environment has changed significantly at that time, including the crisis, globally, in 2009, 2010 has contributed to its changes, new forms of terrorism are emerging through the Islamic State, and Europe is facing the problem of migration. I think it is just the right time to adopt a new declaration on foreign policy. Last but not least this year is a special year – marking 70 years of the end of World War II, 100 years of the start of World War I, 70 years of the establishment of the United Nations, this year celebrating 10 years of Slovenia's membership in the European Union and NATO. And I think that we could not have caught a better moment to adopt the foreign policy declaration. I am confident that the National Assembly, with a large majority, will support this declaration. As far as the declaration is concerned, it is based on four sections. The first section discusses fundamental values, fundamental principles, including legal bases for Slovenian foreign policy; here I have to mention the Constitution, various conventions, from the United Nations Organization, the Council of Europe, not to list all. We define Slovenia as a Central European and Mediterranean country between Western Europe and the Western Balkans. The second section focuses mainly on the objectives of Slovenian foreign policy, namely security, prosperity, regulated relations with other countries, the reputation and visibility of the Republic of Slovenia, a strong European Union where Slovenia is supposed to be at its core, reinforced multilateralism. Finally, given that our nationality and even Slovenian nation is based on Slovenian language and culture, one of the goals is also the recognition and promotion of Slovenian culture in the global world. In particular, the third section deals with priorities in terms of content and geographical areas. With regard to geographical areas, let me say good neighbourly relations, cooperation with Central European countries, the Western Balkans, alpine space, the Mediterranean. Then values such as human rights, economic diplomacy, migration, climate change, intercultural dialogue, transatlantic cooperation. The latter section, however, sets out a system framework for how this declaration of foreign policy could be implemented. I'm sorry, time's up or it'd be longer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The proposal for a declaration was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Minister for Foreign Affairs Karl Viktor Erjavec, dear colleagues and colleagues! At its 26th meeting, on 1 July 2015, the Committee on Foreign Policy considered the Proposal for a Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration. In the course of the course of business, amendments were tabled by the coalition groups, namely, the three amendments to the preamble, the two to Article 1, the three to Article 2, the two to Article 3 and the two to Article 4. The members and members of the Committee also received proposals for amendments to the Committee at Articles 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the proposal for a declaration at the table. In its consideration, the Committee took into account the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 2. 6. 2015, which examined the proposal for a declaration in terms of its consistency with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects and the text of the proposal for a declaration, commented that the declaration expressed general views on foreign policy issues and was therefore a political and non-legal act, which, in view of the practice of drafting and adopting texts of declarations in the National Assembly, required adequate numbering. The Head of the Legislative and Legal Service added that the proposals for amendments to the Committee followed the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. Members and members of the Committee on Foreign Policy were also informed of the opinion of the Committee of the State Council on International Relations and European Affairs of 23. 6. 2015, which supported the proposal for a declaration. A further explanation of the proposal for a declaration was made by the proposer, Minister for Foreign Affairs Karl Viktor Erjavec, who stressed that a large substantive debate had already been held in the framework of various public presentations of opinions and the inclusion of various political views and views of the professional public. He went on to express his affection for the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups, pointing out in particular the amendment to the first indent of Article 4 of the declaration, which defines the National Assembly as the institution of the foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia, and the amendment to Article 4, paragraph 3, of the declaration, which, in the opinion of the Minister, would be significant, since the annual reporting to the National Assembly on the development of international relations and the situation of the Republic of Slovenia in the international community would be extremely important in terms of the notification of the implementation of the guidelines of the Slovenian foreign policy. Members and members of the Committee on Foreign Policy actively participated in the debate, and some of the emphasis on the declaration was praised until certain were critical. One of the opposition parties' concerns regarding the role of the Republic of Slovenia within the European Union and the NATO Union was also expressed. On the basis of paragraphs 131 and 171 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee then adopted the amendments I had previously mentioned. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the entire proposal for a declaration and adopted it. In the light of the amendments adopted, the Committee, pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, prepared the text of the supplementary proposal for a declaration incorporating the amendments adopted. The updated proposal for a declaration is also an integral part of this report, which you have received in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Alliance of Allies of Alenka Bratušek, for which Mr. Peter Wilfan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u6	Dear Vice President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The National Assembly is considering a new proposal for a declaration on foreign policy to replace the 1999 declaration, which focused mainly on Slovenia's EU and NATO membership. Since Slovenia has achieved all the strategic objectives set out in that declaration, and also because the situation in the international community has changed significantly since 1999, it is high time for Slovenia to set its new strategic objectives and plan the work of foreign policy for the next few years. Therefore, the question is whether the country needs an external policy strategy at all, just rhetorical. Slovenia needs a new strategic document to determine its role in the world. It is not acceptable to leave the search for these answers to the authorities on a case-by-case basis. Moreover, every time an external policy problem arises, it becomes a pressing question why Slovenia is without a strategic document. Our foreign policy must also be pragmatic, but only within the framework laid down by the fundamental priority areas and the tasks set out in the declaration. In the Alliance, we support the way in which the text of the declaration was drawn up by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Since the declaration will represent a kind of constitution for Slovenian diplomacy, it is right that the process of design and acceptance took a little longer, as the purpose of the declaration is also to achieve the unification of Slovenian policy. We wish to congratulate both the Minister and all those who have participated in the preparation of this declaration, for we are confident that he will provide good support to Slovenian foreign policy, for the successful implementation of the design process and the broad professional and political consensus reached. Nevertheless, we note that we need a declaration that will not be limited to a time period and which will not be a static document, a living text that will adapt to the current world situation or allow for dynamic adaptation of foreign policy not only through changes in the strategy but also through changes in the declaration itself. The Council is becoming more complex and the role of Slovenia and the European Union is changing. The Declaration sets out Slovenia's widest possible presence abroad, in accordance with economic interests, and a consular activity that supports international economic cooperation. We agree that the scope of Slovenian diplomacy for the country is extremely important. Since the early 1990s, the main objective has been to become a member of the European Union, the OECD, and we have therefore put most diplomatic and consular representations within the European Union or on the European continent. Now, in a time of economic crisis, it is more reasonable to look in the international space for a node which could be interesting for the Slovenian economy or where the Slovenian economy also shows interest. In the absence of this interest, intensifying efforts for economic diplomacy does not make sense. As regards one of the more important issues identified by the declaration, this is cooperation with the European Union, and we would like to draw attention to the risky expression of "implication of the interests of the Republic of Slovenia as active members in the core of the European Union and the placement of the Republic of Slovenia in the core of the deepened and enlarged European Union". We believe that the Republic of Slovenia should stand for a strong or deepened European Union. The fundamental strategic interest of Slovenia is the preservation of a strong and deepened EU and its institutions. Slovenia is one of the economically weaker in the EU and is unfortunately politically peripheral, but Slovenia should not agree to the logic of the EU at two speeds and different trains, such as French-German or other concepts. In our view, we should work towards the enlargement and deepening and effectiveness of the European Union. It seems to us that this would be the right path for Slovenia to follow. It's over. We can read in the declaration that we are committed to a state-oriented foreign policy, the continuity of principles and values, the sovereign equality of countries, the self-determination of nations and the high standards of human rights. These are long-term strategic orientations, which should not only be the content of the new declaration, but rather the reality of our foreign policy. Small countries that do not have economic and military power in today's international space can act sovereignly only with the so-called value-based policies, which are subject to respect for fundamental human rights and freedoms in the world, committed to peace and non-violent resolution of the issues at stake and the equal participation of all nations and countries in the world. Only through such foreign policy will we build the reputation of a country known for its values and principles in international relations. We hope that, with the recognition of Palestine, we will also demonstrate our commitment to such a state-oriented foreign policy. In the Alliance, we will support the declaration and we will also support the proposed amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u7	The text is given by the Members' Group of the Modern Centre Party, for which Dr Milan Brglez is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u8	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, allow the representative position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre to be taken by the foreign policy declaration. We certainly support this declaration and base our support on seven arguments. The first argument is that we are doing this primarily to ourselves. Slovenia needs a single foreign policy, it needs a state-of-the-art attitude. Such a declaration makes it possible. At the same time, we also allow some focus on individual objectives, we cannot actually defend everything, but we simply need to be clear about the objectives and the central objectives both in the field and in the areas so that we can adapt the functioning of the entire diplomatic apparatus. Within this acceptance of the declaration, it has become absolutely clear that the State Assembly is one that accepts the declaration that the strategy is adopted by the Government, i.e. intersectorally must be harmonised, even because the external political moment is present in all policies, although we sometimes do not realize it, it is actually present in all policies and always has an external policy dimension. Finally, what is important at the annual level is that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has a work plan. All of this enables some verification criteria and these verification criteria enable the evaluation of the effectiveness of foreign policy, the effectiveness of foreign policy. Without a declaration of such matters we simply could not assess and the National Assembly could not play its part in what constitutes a system of Slovenian foreign policy. The entire declaration is based on some notion of national interest which is consistent with what is stated in the Coalition Treaty, as it is consistent with what is stated in the Modern Centre Party programme itself. At the time this programme was designed, it was the Mir Cerar Party, but it does not matter, it is important that these matters are clearly defined. Finally, at an abstract level, it is also very clear in the very strategy that is in preparation, but it speaks of the fact that this external political apparatus must provide the conditions for this company to be preserved and developed. When we talk about the development of this society, it is particularly important that we have a vision of what we want. We are also talking about the development of Slovenian cultural space, not only conservation, but the development of this cultural space. This is some visionary vision of what this country has actually set up and how we can continue it. And the other thing that matters at this point is that we are going through the conceptualization of what is actually ours and what we understand well from, let's say, the understanding of sovereignty based on state ownership, the understanding of sovereignty based on shared knowledge, because only that common knowledge is what enables us in foreign policy, a country like Slovenia, in fact a place within which it can function. Therefore, the declaration appropriately defines the role of foreign policy. It is particularly supportive, it cannot replace other policies, but it can also have some added value and is defined by the welfare of our people and our country. The declaration is justified, for the third time, on the inclusive process. And this inclusive process is also expressed, let's say, in that first amendment we support, with some dictatorship about indigenous Slovenian national communities instead of minorities. Because this is also what was expressed in the National Assembly at the time when we had a consultation with foreigners or Slovenians around the world, it is appropriate to express the role of the National Assembly, which is bearable in this area, to enable the Ministry to report to the National Assembly on the one hand, and on the other hand it is a material basis for us to be able to have a debate in the National Assembly. And, here is this second amendment, which has also led us to decide that this bearing role is actually related to all foreign policy issues, that it is absolutely clear that it is only the National Assembly that can discuss such issues and provide some guidance, but of course it cannot implement foreign policy. Here is the central role of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and, of course, the diplomatic apparatus. So, however we look at it, it is an urgent but insufficient condition for proactive foreign policy. This must, however, be based on respect and also on the defence of the Slovenian Constitution on a European and international scale. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u9	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Mag. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u10	Dear President, Honourable Minister, honourable Members! It has been a long time since 1999 before we can discuss a new proposal for a declaration of foreign policy here in the National Assembly. In public debates, we hear all the time about the importance of a joint performance on the international floor, the importance of foreign policy and at the same time the role played by foreign policy along with the economy in the recovery of the Republic of Slovenia and in economic development and the integration into international trade and economic flows. After a longer discussion through various forums, including through a public debate in this Chamber, we have reached the final text, which we are also discussing today. We have actively participated in this debate and have repeatedly highlighted the importance and focus of the values of the European Opinional Environment on the rule of law and the placement of human rights at the heart of foreign policy. Especially since it sometimes seems that this unconditional human rights promotion in Slovenia is not so self-evident at least in some circles. Remember the question of the violent annexation of Crimea. Let us recall some other issues when some of these values and human rights were put in second place and discussed the importance of trade and these issues. Well, as far as the protection of human rights is concerned, it must be clear to everyone that this trust and this focus is unconditionally irrespective of the short-term reductions that the State can obtain for this purpose. In the public debate itself, a number of critical evaluations and some laudable evaluations have been made. We have listened to all these assessments, and on this basis have also actively participated in the preparation of this declaration, which is proposed by the Foreign Ministry, which will be endorsed by the National Assembly and which, as all the discussers have pointed out, is a living document. This is a document that will actually show its value only during the period, through the annual reports in the National Assembly. It should be noted that all too often in Slovenia we accept documents that are blank on paper and then do not come true in reality. In this regard, let me also draw attention to this declaration in this fourth section, where it is clearly stated, "the search for broad political and social consensus in key decisions and more important international candidates". We all know that in at least one candidate for this agreement, it is not that a good part of the civil sphere, as well as political parties, strongly opposes one candidate. And in this respect, therefore, if we read this declaration as a document on which our foreign policy will then be defined, this support will, in view of the declaration, diminish after the adoption of this declaration. It would also be in the light of the wording in this declaration. As regards the general text of the declaration, first of all the amendments which have been annexed since the last meeting or since the last meeting of the Sectoral Committee, the Slovenian Democratic Party will support them and will not oppose the declaration itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u11	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marinka Levičar is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u12	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Nice greetings to the Minister and to you, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Desus Group, we welcome the efforts made by the Foreign Ministry and the Minister in the formulation of the foreign policy declaration, since the foreign policy strategy paper was adopted in 1999. He focused mainly on the integration of the Republic of Slovenia into the European Union and NATO. Its objectives are thus achieved in the vast majority. The new declaration defines the basic values, principles, objectives and priority areas and areas of operation of Slovenian foreign policy. It should be noted, however, that during the public debate on the declaration, more consultations were held with the political, professional and other interested public. In the Desus Group, we believe that it is important that we also recognize in the new declaration the bearing role of the National Assembly in formulating views on foreign policy issues. It is also important that the Foreign Minister report annually to the National Assembly on the development of international relations and the situation of Slovenia in the international community. Thus, the National Assembly will also be able to monitor the implementation of the Slovenian foreign policy guidelines. By placing among the main objectives of foreign policy, in addition to supporting culture, tourism and other recognition of Slovenia and the reputation of the country as one of the priority areas of foreign policy, support for the scientific and educational visibility of Slovenia is also stressed. This seems very important to us. We are aware that the original engine of Slovenian economic growth is, therefore, we support further efforts to strengthen economic diplomacy. This will continue to lead to an increase in trade exchange, a strong presence of Slovenian companies in the markets of the European Union and in other markets. The Republic of Slovenia will participate in trans-European transport and energy networks, taking into account its geographical position. Your Honor! In the foreign policy area, we are faced with many challenges, the refugee crisis, the crisis in Ukraine, the emergence of the Islamic State and the terrorist threat, the rise in nationalism, the dynamic geopolitical shift and, in particular, the relations between the US, Russia and China, the ongoing economic crisis. All of this requires thoughtful but determined foreign policy. Therefore, it is so important that the declaration as the fundamental values of the foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia highlights the values of Slovenia's independence and statehood, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the values of the European Union and the principles of the Charter of the United Nations. In the Desus Group, we are convinced that the present declaration on foreign policy is an act which can serve well as a compass for the control of Slovenia between all fours and the challenges of foreign policy, while at the same time remaining faithful to those fundamental values. We will therefore unanimously support the proposal for a declaration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u13	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Germany.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, distinguished President of the National Assembly, distinguished colleague, dear colleagues! The foreign policy of each country is intended to express the identity of the country, its visibility in the world and its ambitions. Following the international recognition of Slovenia, its inclusion and application in international organisations, it is now at the forefront of achieving the visibility and reputation of the Republic of Slovenia as a successful, safe, open country and ensuring the well-being of its inhabitants. The basic definition of Slovenia, the Central European and Mediterranean State, at the centre of the Alpine-Adriatic-Podonavian area, at the intersection of Western and South-Eastern Europe is also important. The Republic of Slovenia is a maritime state. Among the most important objectives of the declaration are the security of the Republic of Slovenia, prosperity and political stability in the neighbourhood and Europe and the wider world. Slovenia remains one of the safest countries on a global scale, but this security is not self-evident and requires an active foreign policy of the country, and it is important that the security of Slovenia is also a collective category, as we cannot face the current global challenges on our own. The involvement in NATO is therefore important. In view of our country's relations with other actors of international law and its functioning in the international community, the Social Democrats are particularly committed to a policy of peace and peaceful settlement of disputes. In this context, we will strive to cultivate friendly relations with all countries in the world, in respect of their diversity and diversity, in a way that together we create a better environment for future generations. Taking into account the importance of membership in the European Union, which defines the political and value position of Slovenia, it is important to clearly define the role of Slovenia abroad, including concrete priorities for better protection of Slovenian interests within it. Social Democrats underline the importance of strengthening Slovenia's role in international organisations and the international community. Actively defending human rights, strengthening human security and respect for international law should form the basis for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in international organisations. We are in favour of strengthening the role of the European Union in international relations with global policy leadership and example and support its enlargement to strengthen political and economic stability and security, and in particular we advocate and support the strengthening of further integration and expansion of the process into the Balkans. We see an important emphasis on Social Democrats in economic diplomacy, which creates new business opportunities. There is a need to strengthen economic diplomacy and better presence in targeted new markets, by increasing the dispersion of export markets and by focusing on rapidly growing markets. One of the basic orientations of Slovenian foreign policy is to strengthen the already concluded strategic partnerships and to expand the network of those with those centres and powers that will enable us to fit into the international environment. We also assess that the new declaration correctly defines the importance of economic diplomacy and efforts to promote the Slovenian economy in foreign markets. The important role of the National Assembly, which is considered by Article 4 of the declaration as a carrier of Slovenia's foreign policy, should be highlighted in particular. In view of the tasks and responsibilities of the National Assembly in the external political field, we believe that such an address is appropriate. The Declaration instructs the Minister of Foreign Affairs to present annually to the National Assembly an assessment of the development of international relations and the situation of the Republic of Slovenia in the international community in the light of the objectives and priorities of the declaration and the strategic document, which is of paramount importance in terms of information from the implementation of foreign policy orientations. Social Democrats will therefore support the proposal for a declaration on foreign policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u15	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for her by Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u16	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! We have a long-term framework for Slovenian foreign policy ahead of us. In the United Left of Slovenia in this context we simply do not see. This framework, which, under the pretext of Euro-Atlantic integration, advocates everything that the European Union and the Union represent, is not the framework for ensuring equal relations between nations, solidarity and the general emancipation we represent. This framework is a framework that has produced, still produces and will produce social and cultural inequalities, creates greater inequalities between the centre and the periphery, between rich and poor countries and increases differences between rich and poor people within countries themselves. That is why we must distance ourselves from the three passwords which are the essence of this document and offer an alternative. These three slogans are "Slovenia in the core of a strong European Union", "Then as a fundamental framework for national and European security" and "strengthening transatlantic cooperation". The first password, the core of a strong Europe, clearly speaks of two Europes or a Europe of two speeds. The free market of the European Union and economic policy adapted to the large countries in the centre have led to a stalemate in the weaker countries of the periphery. The symptoms are the unemployment of a quarter of the population and more than half of the young. The blind deepening of the economic and monetary union announced by the declaration will further exacerbate the situation. The alternative is a different Europe that adapts policies to the needs of the Member States. This alternative is not only principled but also pragmatic. Slovenia is not in the core of the European Union. The experience of the southern European countries and our own experience of taking over the euro show that we will not reach the core market in a free market situation. For a password about a strong Europe that will be able to exercise the interest of members as one of the key global players, another interest is hidden – the continuation of imperialist geopoliticalism. Our interest is a different Europe, one that will stop interfering with other continents and its neighbourhood. This alternative is not only desirable, but also realistic, and its fulfilment does not mean anything more than approaching the idea of a large European family that is actually solidarity, equal and fair. That's not it now. Such a European Union, as we now know, has produced a series of humanitarian crises, has been involved in all major military actions by the United States, Afghanistan and Iraq, for example, and has participated in the destabilisation of Libya and all of North Africa. He doesn't do anything in the case of Palestine. The actions of such a European Union are produced by the collapse of the social state, poverty and general misery. The actions of such a European Union sustain humanitarian crises. Such a European Union is still a fortress of Europe. Second password. Then there is no basis for national and European security. National security is based on friendly relations with neighbouring countries and their own defence forces. It is clear that NATO is not the foundation of European security, but the main factor of destabilisation from Ukraine through the Middle East to the South Pacific. The main and real alternative to this non-essential relationship is only the non-blocking position of Slovenia based on neutral countries such as Austria, Sweden or Finland. The third password of enhanced transatlantic cooperation covers the continuation of the European Union's subordination, harmful to American foreign policy. Then there's no longer a defensive link, if that ever was. Its only function is to preserve American hegemony in the 21st century. The common European foreign policy must be independent of the US, or it is better that it is not at all. The aggressive American policy against the Russian Federation and China is leading to a confrontation that can only be prevented by the European Union's neutral stance. Finally, the belief that European-American privileges in international relations are justified and inevitable is contrary to the democratic will of most of our citizens. A survey by the famous Gallup Institute, for example, showed that 52% of Slovenians do not approve of the functioning of the US administration. After the disapproval rate, we're even in front of Russia. This is just one indicator that shows that there is still a very vivid anti-imperialist attitude in our country, which has been adorning the struggle for the northern border, the Yugoslav volunteers between the Balkan wars and the first world war, the fighters of the national liberation struggle, and also the policy of the undeclared. Therefore, according to our assessment, the declarations are not only contrary to the principles of the United Left, but also to the majority of the population. Of course, we know from experience that citizens generally oppose neoliberal policies such as privatisation, and this does not remove the government. If we want an equal, social, solidarity and just Europe, we must also demand it and try to build it. The proposed declaration simply does not express this. Under the pretext of some new direction of Slovenian foreign policy, this declaration only deepens the policy, which means the nemo nodding of dictatorships from Brussels and Washington. In 1999, we wrote in the previous declaration, quote: "In the field of global and regional economic relations, Slovenia advocates solutions that ensure full employment, higher quality of life and conditions for economic and social progress and development." We have not reached these principles. With the current declaration, which he doesn't even mention, we certainly won't. Because of all this, we cannot and will not support this declaration in the United Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u17	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u18	Thank you again, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr Foreign Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Encyclopædia Britannica, foreign policy is defined as, I quote, "general objectives that guide the activities and relations of one country in their interaction with other countries. The development of foreign policy depends on weighing matters within each country, policies or behaviour of other countries or plans to make progress on specific geopolitical objectives. Leopold von Ranke stressed the primacy of geography and external threats in the design of foreign policy and later authors point out domestic factors. "Diplomatic diplomacy is a tool of foreign policy. Wars, alliances and international trade are, in fact, all manifestations of this." End of quote. And now to Slovenia. First, let us take a closer look at the role of the National Assembly in foreign policy matters in Slovenia. In Slovenia, the basis for cooperation between the Government and the National Assembly in the field of foreign policy-making lays down the Law on Foreign Affairs. This Article, addressed to the Carrier of Implementation and Cooperation, provides that "in the framework of the powers of the Government, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall carry out external affairs in accordance with the general guidelines laid down by the National Assembly". In particular, the Article states that "The Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall prepare to the Government, the National Assembly and the President of the Republic, as well as to other State bodies the professional basis for adopting positions, assessments and actions in the field of foreign policy where matters relevant for the implementation of the foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia are concerned. In cooperation with other competent authorities and services, he shall take care of the Slovenian community in neighbouring countries and Slovenia around the world and shall carry out other tasks laid down by this law and other regulations." Colleagues and colleagues, in the December 1999–July 2015 timeline, a lot has happened, in Europe, globally and, of course, in Slovenia. And in this context, at the October meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Minister in the context of the questions and initiatives sent, I asked or gave an initiative on how the working material of the declaration on the external policy of the Republic of Slovenia is. The Minister responded correctly and specifically as he then brought working material or draft declaration on the external policy of the Republic of Slovenia to the Committee on Foreign Policy in October 2014. The Committee considered that this working draft declaration, as a political document, was the appropriate basis for further discussion, and at the same time the Government undertook to see a draft or proposal for a strategic document prepared and adopted by the Government before the final decision on the declaration. All of this happened, then also at the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy on 1 July this year. In spring, the Committee on Foreign Policy prepared a very good public presentation. There have been many events where the professional public could submit its proposals and additions, its views on the foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia. New Slovenia estimates that the time frame in which we accept the declaration is very fortunately defined. It is almost a quarter of a century of the independent state of the Republic of Slovenia, it has been a good decade since Slovenia has been a member of the European Union and NATO. We welcome the dictatorship in the declaration that the European Union represents a basic, valuable, political framework for the provision of prosperity and fundamental rights, and membership in NATO, to constitute a fundamental framework for ensuring the national security of the Republic of Slovenia. Let me also take this moment to thank all those who have been creatively involved in the creation of a declaration on the foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia. Here, of course, I would also point out the expertise of the Committee on Foreign Policy, of course the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the ministers' co-workers. I would like to see this political document adopted today at least without a vote against it. It is important that the State of the Republic of Slovenia speaks with one voice on external political issues. New Slovenia will support the declaration.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u19	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a discussion on the chapters and amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 9 May. Seven. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate the third chapter and the amendments of the SMC and Desus groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. The New Slovenia Group will support the proposed amendments to the coalition. It should be said that on 2 July, it is said that the day following the adoption of the declaration by the Committee on Foreign Policy in the National Assembly has already taken place 15. All-Slovenian meeting. This is where the full hall of representatives and representatives of the Slovenians from the localities and from the world gathered. There I also had the opportunity to present, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Policy, those provisions of the Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia relating to the Slovenian Community in place and to Slovenia in the world. We actually have one problem here, as far as terminology is concerned. In fact, Article 5 of the Constitution uses the term "autochthonous Slovenian national minority in neighbouring countries". It's about minorities. Why am I mentioning this All-Slovenian meeting on 2 July this year? Thus, the representatives of the Slovenians from the place and from the world as well as we think that the term minority is wrong and that the actual declaration has to be brought into line with the law. So these amendments, which are proposed for chapter 3 and chapter 4, somehow remedy this terminology mismatch and are actually worthy of support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u22	Thank you very much. I will, as usual, take advantage of this opportunity for a slightly broader debate in a somewhat broader framework. But I would limit myself to two points. The first point is that of the neighbourhood policy of the European Union, which, of course, holds the stand. We don't support these policies in the United Left. We don't support them in the United Left. If, within this particular example, I mention the Eastern Policy of the European Union, it is geopolitically very dangerous. In addition, it is economically harmful, in particular for these countries in question. Ukraine, for example, is on the way to pull that short straw from the integration process into the single market, similar to Croatia, Serbia or Bosnia. This integration in these countries deepens the causes of poverty and blackmail because it affects the industry of these countries. It is simply not possible for this industry to compete with the developed industrial base of some large metropolis, but it is then placed here in a common framework in which the same rules are supposed to apply, and then we all know that we cannot expect any fair competition to take place between the economy that we can compare with Ferrari and between the economy that we can compare with a fiche or similar crisis. But we all know that a stronger economy will overpower the weaker. And that is exactly what the countries covered by the Eastern Policy of the European Union are looking forward to. The removal of investment barriers to public competitions and customs barriers goes in a similar direction, always in the interest of a stronger partner. There's a lot of talk in here about TTIP. Well, what the TTIP represents for Slovenia or for the whole of Europe is an association agreement for Ukraine, only that this matter is even more potential in the Ukrainian case. Our position should generally be diametrically opposite to that expressed by the declaration. Many will say that such an attitude is not realistic, that there are no realistic alternatives to existing regulation and that we are in the United Left with our opposition to a beautiful soul and that real politics is something else, but with our principled views it does not survive confrontation. And there could also be an argument that we are now in good or poorly involved as members of the European Union and NATO and that we must now remove ourselves whether we like it or not. But look, respected, respected, such reasoning, such reasoning and such attitude is an example of classical medieval servants. The example that we should take in this place is how to approach the European Union and NATO is an example of Iceland. Iceland applied for membership in the European Union in July 2009, because they had just entered into a severe crisis. Well, then, two years later, in 2011, they could see what this singing European solidarity means, and they started stalling through accession procedures. Until 2013, when they actually froze the negotiations. Then, finally this year, March 12th, all the promises made in these negotiations were withdrawn and withdrawn smoothly. And a very pragmatic, healthy approach to these integrations they have and demonstrate. In particular, they only accept what is in their interest. Free movement of people and customs union – yes, and economic and monetary union is out of the question. This is an example from which the Republic of Slovenia should learn. This is an example that we should follow in the National Assembly, but we are doing the exact opposite with a declaration, expressing our humility, expressing our self-servicing for some totally foreign imperialist interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u23	Thank you. Mrs. Marinka Levicar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Madam President. A nice greeting once again, and especially to the Prime Minister of the Government, who I have not greeted before! First of all, I commend and thank the drafter of the resolution, in particular the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Ministry, who sought to see the proposal for a declaration addressed by the general public. Thus, the declaration we are receiving today comprehensively covers in my opinion all the most important areas of operation of our foreign policy. But our foreign policy will be really good if we make every effort to implement it, all politicians, not to wash our domestic dirty laundry abroad, and stress our narrow party interests or affirmations. This will also achieve one of the seven objectives that I consider very important, the reputation and visibility of our country as a successful country in the society of other European Union countries. As an important objective, I would also like to stress the welfare of the Republic of Slovenia and its citizens and citizens. We will also have to work harder to achieve this goal, both by all the politicians, the economists and others who can do something about it. However, with regard to the implementation of the declaration, I am particularly concerned about the last three indents of the fourth part relating to the stability of the provision of adequate financial resources, linking the strengthening of diplomatic powers or diplomatic representations, the appropriate equipment of diplomacy and more. With regard to the amendments tabled by the coalition parties, of course, including Desus, I fully support them, because they have already been justified by my predecessor, Mr Horvat, I would not particularly repeat these reasons why we support all these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Marko Ferruga has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the president and to the minister! As far as I am concerned, I would like to congratulate the Minister's team at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and all those involved in the declaration. In fact, it must be said that I consider this to be one very positive thing that it has been done on one as wide as possible with the support of all stakeholders, that this public debate was therefore very widely held and all stakeholders had something to say about it. It is clear that everyone does not agree, because not everyone will ever agree, but it is true to say that this element can be considered as a party neutral document with one broad vision and which also has a time dimension, regardless of how fast the world is changing, that I think all of these elements are necessary for a new redefined task that foreign policy should have. It is also important to say here that in the international community, visions are extremely diverse and are likely to change quite quickly. But it is important that we get a new document after these sixteen years, which will then, clearly, continue and strategy further specify our tasks, and that once we have achieved the goal of Europe and NATO, we have moved on to some new dimension, some new vision and some new perspective that is actually needed, and in fact we need to pave the way, because we have seen that since this document was not available, that foreign policy may be a little melting away and not find the right guidance. Now, at least some directions have been made here, which will then be clearly redefined and corrected, but it is important that we have some direction and that we are running some red thread that we want and that we need for Slovenia. So all the honor and support of the declaration. With regard to the amendments, it is clear that we support the two amendments that have been tabled on our side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u27	Thank you. Mrs. Jana Jenko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. All present, ministers and, above all, the President of the Government! Good external diplomacy is a mirror of the country in the world. It is a great added value to the reputation of the country, which is needed mainly by smaller countries such as Slovenia. I am very pleased that the proposal for a declaration on foreign policy, which is before us today, has reached such broad support. Here I thank all the participants, especially the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who took the time to prepare this strategic document and presented it to the very wide public. Thus, it was already the first public tribunal in January this year, where both diplomats and experts in international relations, political actors and the rest of the general public made their comments. Thus, in February, a public debate was held on the draft declaration also in the State Council and in April in the National Assembly. I am pleased that many of the comments made in these public debates have also been included in the final version of the declaration. The declaration is a framework in which the country is already in the grave to specify its own in the international environment. I am also very pleased that the Ministry has also presented us with a proposal for a strategy for the implementation of this declaration, which is already a very concrete document and which indicates the achievement of the objectives of our foreign policy. I think it is very important that economic diplomacy is at a very high level among the priorities. Slovenian GDP growth is mainly based on exports, as we do not have much other natural resources. This should therefore continue to be encouraged and indeed taken into account other markets, not only the European Union, the countries of the European Union, but also the Western Balkans and other countries of the world, which I think is very well defined in this declaration. The security of the country is still important. We are facing ever-increasing crises, terrorism, and there is no longer sufficient definition here as it has been in this declaration, which is now 16 years old and completely outdated, as it has defined Slovenia's accession objectives in particular to the European Union community, which we have already achieved. I am so glad that this declaration has reached so much support. It saddens me that not all the opposition parties will support this declaration, and I do not have clear reasons. They were saying something, but I don't think these are the very reasons that would be a good basis for non-supporting this declaration. I will also support both amendments, as it seems to me that they are mainly nomotechnic and necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u29	Since there is obviously still interest in the debate, please apply. Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u30	Dear Mr President, the distinguished President of the Government, ministers, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! I will also support this amendment, which replaces the text of the "Slovenian National Minors" with the words "autochthonous Slovenian National Communities", because our Slovenians from the indigenous Slovenian National Communities have repeatedly stressed that the word minority itself means something small, stop being inferior, it can also make some negative, while the Slovenian National Community's word union itself means something positive, something equal, equivalent, so I think this amendment is very meaningful and in place. I am also pleased that this strategy includes a positive attitude towards the Slovenes, to Slovenian indigenous national communities. This is also a problem for me because it is a longer word relationship when I have to repeat it and also to our emigrants around the world, so that Slovenians feel more connected in this way to the Slovenian common national body, as we call it. But, above all, the Members would warn us of one thing. On Thursday, July 2nd, there was a full-day meeting of Slovenians from the world and from these indigenous national communities. All day long we listened to various presentations, performances where they highlighted their problems, including their wishes, expectations in relation to Slovenia. They also highlighted some of the problems we have in Slovenia, and we want to solve them differently, because they are most proud of Slovenia when we are doing well and when we know each other's problems or situations positively. But very saddened them, and this told me quite a few participants that there were almost no Members here, only a few of us sat here all day and some of you came for a few minutes and left. That's what made them sad. If we want to understand this subject better, then it is only right to have as many meetings as we can attend, at least those who are members of the Commission for Slovenians in place and around the world, from which it is assumed that we have a different attitude to do so, and of course all others, how we will understand them, how we will give them some encouragement, a positive note if we are not here if we ignore it. This has been happening for years since I have been in Parliament, so that more or less every year the same is repeated. Perhaps to encourage all of us to think about this, when the second year will come again in July, when this conference is usually held in the National Assembly, and then the event Welcome home, it was in Ptuj this year, where it was also with the Prime Minister of the Slovenian Council worldwide. There they gathered again, met again, and our presence meant a great deal to them. In addition to writing down our affection for the strategy, it is right to listen to them, encourage them, talk with them, and then really feel that they are accepted and respected in their country.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u31	Mr Primož Hainz has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u32	Mr President, thank you so much for your words. Welcome to the Prime Minister, both ministers, especially Foreign Minister Karl Erjavac. Allow me to make a few thoughts on this declaration. Slovenia has entered the European Union and NATO and this is, of course, our current reality in economic and security terms. Of course, we must be aware that Slovenians need their country very badly, regardless of these international associations, which are at first sight protection in every way. We need a sovereign state for sovereign Slovenians within the European Union. Today the so-called economic globalisation is emerging. This globalisation, of course, is very unpopular to individual nations, especially the great ones, do not have this problem, and few nations have this problem. That is why, of course, we need to replace this economic globalisation on the one hand with the fields of science, culture, political power, protection of the Slovenian people at all times, and of course not to forget the economic independence of the people, because without it, of course, it is not in the long term. We know that these associations can be shorter or longer lives, and of course you never know what's coming tomorrow. In this sense, we must not be naive and always have a little perspective on the distant future. In protecting this Slovenia, of course, I must say that what we used to call a unique Slovenian cultural space plays an extremely important role. This is because the queen is responsible for all Slovenes around the world, Slovenes in exchange and, of course, that in this respect the declaration also answers all these questions in some way. However, as far as Desus is concerned, if I can be a little party-friendly, we must of course say that what is extremely important to us is the creation of a demographic development fund. If we want this fund to be interesting for young people, because it is, of course, the only possibility of applying so-called intergenerational solidarity, then, of course, we need a strong economy that will be the basis of this fund. That is why, of course, the declaration answers this question. And that's what I think is good. In fact, the declaration is strongly focused on external trade diplomacy, so economic diplomacy is the basis, because the Slovenian economy is externally oriented, and the Slovenian economy is too large, it is export-oriented and it is extremely important for the economic stability of the country as a whole. Although we would like more reindustrialisation, that's true, but that's another problem, today we're dealing with foreign policy. I must say that the spread of the Slovenian economy or the spread of markets abroad is one of the priorities of this declaration. In this regard, I also support the declaration in its entirety and with pleasure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u33	Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u34	Thank you, Mr. President. After these few praises to this declaration, I also understand from my colleagues from Desus to my President, I think we must tell citizens and citizens in fact what this is about. We heard it was a non-party document. We can say it's non-party, if it's a regime document, of course. This document takes a completely uncritical view of the role of the European Union and its shortcomings. This document should have some concrete proposals for the reform of the European Union if we would like to support it in the United Left. Not that she's blindly followed. We have also heard that small countries such as Slovenia need guidelines such as those recorded here. Let us take a look at what Slovenia has brought to this European Union. Obviously, no one has noticed that Slovenia has begun stagnation since its entry into the European Union and into the euro area. It's a purely economic fact. Before the crisis, we had an average overheating, and in the crisis, we had an average deep and long-term recession. By 2006, Slovenia had also grown organically, without being indebted abroad. In a few years, the net debt increased to 10 billion. At the time of the crisis, the required relations on our bond were significantly higher than in countries with poor macroeconomic indicators. So Slovenia is no exception to this and will never be in this core of the European Union, but we are also just repeating the story that we have already seen in other countries of southern Europe, let's say Portugal. And it is also significant what Minister Marble said in January that I quote: "The European Stability Pact is much more appropriate for Germany than it is for Slovenia. The European Central Bank's monetary policy is essentially focused on the economic situation in Germany rather than on Slovenia." It is clear that if we blindly agree to such an arrangement of the European Union and to such directions as it has, we will never, in fact, reach that centre that is so sung and described in this declaration, but we will only get deeper into the crisis and into the coming second recession. If we would like to support this document, we should write down that we are in fact demanding that economic policies be adapted to the requirements of individual Member States, it is said, a more solidarity-based economic union and, of course, requires a more social and more solidarity-based European Union than one that would not divide into two European Unions, but would try to involve all Member States equally and equally in this community. Moreover, this enlargement is also problematic, so to speak, the enlargement of the European Union, which will not produce the desired results for the new Member States. If you look at Croatia, which is practically already within the European Union, we have the longest recession in the EU. This year they will only see positive growth by 0.4% and they are practically expecting stagnation by 2020. At the same time, there are 310,000 unemployed and 50,000 displaced in the last two years. The public debt is 85% and the deficit is between 5.6 and 5.7%. In fact, the EU prevents the autonomous development of each country. Any lack of its own economic policy only leads to the fact that all the new countries that will join the European Union have actually become entangled in the trinity dictated by the Trinity. We therefore believe that the main interest of the European Union in enlargement, as stated in the declaration, is simply to open the way to the interests of the large members, particularly Germany and France, and to open the way to foreign investment and privatisation. We already have a strong feeling about this, and this will be felt by the new members of the acceding group soon. Given that we have been made clear that we have not stated clearly enough why we are against this, these are clear arguments why such a European Union and such declarations as it agrees with such a European Union cannot be supported in the United Left. And I don't think this is an internal political game to oppose. I do not think that such a document can and must not have consensus, and it is right that there is at least someone who opposes or opposes such guidelines and tries to find another and better way for their own citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u35	You still want to discuss it, so please sign up. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u36	Dear Prime Minister, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Declaration is a reflection of what we may want in foreign policy. With what is stated in the declaration, I have no problem and, of course, I will support it, and the question is how it will be implemented. And that's what I'm much more interested in and to which I can be critical. A colleague from the United Left was critical until the declaration. In a way, there's a difference between them and us. For New Slovenia, we are satisfied that we are members of the European Community, that we are members of the NATO Alliance, so we are happy to be part of Euro-Atlantic connections, unlike them, who look at these things extremely critical and perhaps want to create any other links, if I do a little cartooning, with Venezuela, Cuba and similar countries. This shows the significant difference between the present proposed declaration and those critical to this declaration. If I am a little critical of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I could say that, at the time of Minister Erjavac's ministry, our foreign policy was somewhat confused. Many times, we did not know exactly where we were or what our role was. Minister Erjavec has often acted as if he does not know that we are members of the European Union and that we are members of the NATO Alliance. That unfortunate story was very talkative when he tried to mediate between the European Union and Russia. But I believe that this declaration and the strategy that will follow will also put Minister Erjavac on the right track and that things will be more clear, more focused and more focused from now on. Everyone who does is also wrong, so there would be no mistakes, so that we can now resent Minister Erjavac. In the declaration before us, two things clearly state that the Republic of Slovenia is a Central European country, but at the same time it says that we will upgrade our activity and activity in the Balkans. From this declaration we can feel some separation between the Balkans and Central Europe. Personally, I see no problem in this, but it seems crucial to me that from this separation, we are at the crossroads of the Balkans and Central Europe, that we try to draw primarily from this one, I will say, geostrategic positions, as many positive aspects as possible. This would be a positive thing about our separation, and the negative thing is that we are simply fluctuating between Central Europe and the Balkans, and we are not doing well anywhere, because we do not know where to go. There's good work to be done everywhere. One more thing I would focus on, which is one of the fundamental objectives of this declaration, that we want to raise the reputation and visibility of the Republic of Slovenia. Initiatives are the key to this. I miss the initiatives of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of foreign policy, in particular the initiatives in the Balkans, where we should obviously have some more credits and we do not know how to use them. We do not show enough of this self-initiativeism in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u37	It's a replica. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u38	Dear colleague Tonin, it was clear from the point of view that in the United Left and New Slovenia, of course, we have different positions on this and we have expressed them ourselves, but thank you for repeating that too. As for the other part, I think you've been very clever in some way trying to understand what we've been saying. We were not talking about other connections, we were talking about different connections, different connections that would bring more solidarity, more social and more equal Europe.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u39	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Primož Hainz has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Say good-bye to everyone again! Of course, I have to be a little bit of a comment on the position of the United Left, although I sometimes agree or agree with some of the positions. [[…]] I am sure that the European Union is not to blame for what we have done in the past. Secondly, the question is whether we are solving the crisis in the way we like it most is now another issue, but we have not caused the crisis ourselves. You also proved this by comparing it with Croatia. Croatia had almost 300,000 unemployed by the time of Sanader. Ask that question to Severina, who wore that badge of 268,000 or how many unemployed, and then angered the political space. I think of the European Union as a peace process and, of course, I have one thing to say in this regard, which, of course, does not fly on you, but we have one comment to make, because I like that Slovenia has remained a window of some kind also in Eastern Europe. In the long run – let's leave it as it is today – at this point, I do not imagine the European Union without the Russian Federation. I stress that this is not a time dimension, but it is a long-term substantive dimension. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u41	Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting forward the fourth chapter and the amendment of the SMC and Desus Group Members. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. We've obviously exhausted the debate. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, amendments will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 19th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. At the end of the day, that's a second defensively proposed fiscal law in the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the President of the Government, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u42	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to say a few words at the beginning of the second reading of the supplementary proposal of the Fiscal Rule Act. I know you're all very well aware that this is an extremely important subject, with several aspects. Undoubtedly, the most important substantive aspect is that the law lays down a framework for managing public finances in a sustainable manner. Respect for the rule will halt the trend of public debt growth due to excessive current public spending. It is, therefore, that, as a result of us, within the constitutional framework that we have set ourselves, we are setting up a strict legal framework within which we will ensure adequate public financial efficiency and accountability. From a formal point of view, of course, it is very important that the law can only be adopted by at least a two-thirds majority. This means that the adoption of this law requires a high political consensus, which, of course, goes beyond just a coalition. So let me say right away that I am very pleased that you have all worked together in great efforts to reach this consensus. The law is also important from an international point of view as Slovenia is exposed at European Union level as the only Member State that has not yet regulated the fiscal rule in more detail in its legal order. This, in the face of the uncertain situation resulting from the complications with Greece, makes Slovenia's position on international financial markets worse, which, of course, also affects the cost of borrowing in the economy. So now is the time for us to adopt the fiscal rule law. As you know, it should have been adopted within six months of the amendment of the Constitution in May 2013, more specifically Article 148 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law sets out the way and timeframe for the implementation of the principle of medium-term balance of income and expenditure of the State sector referred to in Article 148 of the Constitution. The law also provides for a corrective mechanism if a derogation is found from this principle. However, since the derogation is not always due to economic policy decisions, but also to exceptional circumstances, the proposal also provides for a way of taking action in such situations. The law also establishes the Fiscal Council as an independent state authority to monitor the implementation of the fiscal rule. Finally, the proposal also provides for a transitional period for the gradual structural balance of public finances. Details will also be presented by our Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Maramor, in the discussion below. Let me say that the complementary bill you will be discussing today contains substantively meaningful proposals. Such as have been presented to us in interviews in recent months and all the nomotechnic corrections needed to make the text clearer. At the same time, the law remains complete, which is extremely important, as it is likely that due to the two-thirds majority, which is the condition for its adoption and also, of course, the change, it will probably remain unchanged for a long time. Let me stress that, in cooperation with you, with political parties, Members, both those of the coalition and those of the opposition, have had a lot of coordination, except, of course, with the United Left, which has already given up immediately after the first meetings to participate in this coordination. Both the coalition and the opposition party, as well as the representatives of both national communities, the Italian and Hungarian nationalities, have made constructive contributions to this discussion. Of course, she also participated in this discussion all the time, both legal and economic. Therefore, I believe that the law is now ready for adoption in the second reading as well as for admission in the third, i.e. for final adoption and enforcement. By accepting or by all of us together, you will demonstrate your serious intention to manage the state finances well and responsibly. It is not only a constitutionally binding act, but also a very important act of state. I wish you a lot of success in today's debate, a lot of constructive debate, and I hope that we will finally achieve what is important for Slovenia to us to adopt the Fiscal Rule Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u43	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Tiln Bozic, Vice-President.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u44	Dear President, all representatives of the government, colleague and colleague! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is held at its 11th regular session. 6. 2015 As a parent working body, the proposal for a Fiscal Rule Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption was considered by the Government. The Committee also received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the law submitted in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view, the Service made some general comments and also to individual articles of the bill. In addition, the Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts and Finance, which supports the proposal of the law. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the State Council, amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the Joint Left, the Slovenian Democratic Party and the coalition parties of the Modern Cent Party, Desus and SD. Meetings of the Committee were attended by the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service. The opening presentation was presented by the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Miro Cerar, who said that the law was important not only because of the constitutional commitment, but mainly because it lays the foundation for sustainable public finances. He pointed out that a broad political consensus, reflected by the required two-thirds majority, was needed for adoption. He warned that it was important for the law to remain consistent and complete even as it would be difficult to change in the future. He also mentioned the fact that Slovenia, within the euro area Member States, is the only one that has not yet regulated the fiscal rule in its legal order in accordance with the commitments made. He briefly presented the process of drafting the law and a number of substantive coordinations with representatives of parliamentary parties, representatives of national communities and with the Legislative and Legal Service. Economic and financial experts and a special expert group participated in the drafting of the law, which also participated in the drafting of Article 148 of the Constitution. He also thanked all of them on these occasions. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the Minister of Finance explained that with the adopted law Slovenia is very late, also with regard to the implementation of the directive, as Slovenia is still looking forward to a sentence. The Minister further presented in detail the key elements of the law and the proposed substantive changes in the light of the first version, with particular reference to both inequalities and to the composition and organisation of the fiscal council. In the debate, some members and members of the Committee expressed their concerns and opposition to the proposal for a law because they felt that it would not bring about a balance of public finances. In addition to monetary autonomy, Slovenia was considered to lose the fiscal leverage it could use in the event of a re-crisis. They also considered that the law provided for the excessive role of the fiscal world, which would act independently. They drew attention to the possible consequences of the social bill, the excessive cuts in public spending already in 2015 and its impact on development policy. They are also interested in whether calculations have been made on the impact of the law on economic growth. They further considered that it would be necessary to amend the Rules of Procedure and also the Law on Public Finance. Some have warned that Slovenia needs the adoption of the law to allow some flexibility in the recession and predictability of the conjuncture, which referred to the so-called Swiss formula. They also wanted clarification on the formula used in the bill. However, some members expressed their support for the bill in the debate and felt that it was right to correct the unconstitutional situation and that the law was adopted by a two-thirds majority, so that not every future government would be subject to change. It is right to ensure the long-term sustainability of public finances for future generations, while maintaining certain flexibility in the law in case of extraordinary events, with particular attention to the potential impact on the most vulnerable groups in society. They also considered it important that the Fiscal Council is an independent and professional body. At the end of the discussion, the Minister answered the questions raised and provided further clarifications. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee has considered the amendments tabled to the article of the draft law. The Committee adopted amendments to the coalition parliamentary groups and rejected amendments to the SDS and the United Left. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted the articles of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u45	Since the assembly held a general debate on the draft law at its 4th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the Groupes. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. Seven. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Before I ask you to report, I give the floor to Dr. Dusan Marble, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Dear Members! Allow me to explain in a little more detail here, in addition to the basic concept of how this law was drafted, what is the difference between the law which was submitted to the General Assembly in December last year and the importance of the law itself. As the Prime Minister has already pointed out, by adopting the implementing law on fiscal rules, we are already very late. Since it was envisaged that the key provisions of the directive would be transposed into the Fiscal Rule Act, but due to delays in the adoption of the law just prior to the action by the European Commission, certain procedures are already under way, proceedings before the EU court, the EU court may determine a fine which, taking into account the weight and duration of the infringement, could amount to around 500 days. We are also late to transpose the provisions of the fiscal pact, which we committed ourselves in 2012 to ratifying the international agreement on stability, coordination and governance in the Economic and Monetary Union. In this case, too, due to the failure to comply with the Treaty, the EU court could impose a fine of up to 0.1% of gross domestic product, which is more than €37 million. However, with already limited public funds, monetary penalties are the last thing we would like right now. With regard to the drafting of the law alone, I would like to say the following. In drafting the law, we continued the work of the former government. That is why we have taken as a basis the draft law, which was about a year ago, but to a large extent not fully aligned with the parliamentary groups. We have upgraded this framework in the direction of flexibility permitted, which is still permitted by European fiscal policy rules. It is the granting of a structural deficit of 0,5 % of gross domestic product at the time of the recession, the exclusion of one-off expenditure from the ceiling of expenditure calculated on the basis of inequalities, and the open definition of exceptional circumstances in accordance with the Stability and Growth Pact. Flexibility with these elements is crucial for a country without its own monetary policy, such as Slovenia, where economic shocks can mainly be addressed through fiscal policy. However, it should be stressed that flexibility is not intended to dilute a rule that will allow unchanged public financial policies to continue. The rule of the balanced budget is a strict limitation that will require much more adjustment in order to phase out the structural deficit currently running around 2.5% of gross domestic product. This rule will allow us to ensure that Slovenia does not create an additional public debt during normal economic times through the economic cycle for current public spending. That's the point. The bill contains the following elements. The central part is the provisions which operationalise the principle of medium-term balance of the State's budgets without debt, as provided for in Article 148 of the Constitution. The medium-term balance shall be assessed by reference to the value of the structural balance of the State sector as a whole, which shall not be negative in the medium term on average and shall not exceed 0,5 % of the gross domestic product in a given year. This rule should only be waived in times of emergency, which are defined in accordance with European public financial rules as a serious economic downturn or an emergency which the State has no influence on, with significant consequences for public finances. The scope of the derogations in accordance with the proposal is confirmed by law by the National Assembly. The bill also provides for a corrective mechanism where derogations from the fiscal rule are found. In this case, the Government shall draw up a proposal for a programme of measures to eliminate the derogation from the rule. A transitional period is also foreseen for the gradual correction of the structural deficit of the State sector, which currently amounts to around 2.5% of GDP. This has to be reduced in accordance with the dynamics envisaged in the Stability and Growth Pact during the transitional period, which, in the first phase, means the elimination of the excessive deficit we are planning this year and, in the second phase, the reduction of the structural deficit of around 0.5 % of gross domestic product per year. In line with this dynamic, which is also included in this year's stability programme, structural balance of budgets is expected to be achieved in 2020. This transitional period is very important as it will allow for the gradual adjustment of public expenditure on public financial capacity and the state. In doing so, achieving as much economic growth as possible is crucial and spending growth must be limited. In order to comply with the rule during the transitional period, the growth of public spending must be lower than economic growth, but the rules also allow for a moderate increase in expenditure at a time of sound economic growth. A large part of the law is also intended to regulate the so-called Fiscal Council as an independent state authority to prepare assessments of the compliance of public financial policy with fiscal rules. The draft law thus provides for the composition and method of appointing members of the Fiscal Council, its tasks and other elements necessary for its establishment. All of these are the basic elements of the draft law, as was transmitted by the Government to the National Assembly in December. However, in line with the commitments made in the context of the first reading of the bill, on the basis of the comments made in many interviews with parliamentary groups and various experts, a complementary text of the bill was also prepared. Key substantive changes relate to the inclusion of inequalities in order to determine the ceiling for expenditure in Article 3 and to certain organisational aspects of the Fiscal Council. The way in which the principle of medium-term balance is implemented without debt was written in the basic version of the bill only in the word. Due to the demands of the opposition parliamentary groups, Article 3 was supplemented by two inequalities to determine the ceiling on expenditure. The first of the inequalities provides for the maximum authorisation of expenditure in a given year, in the period when the level of GDP is below the potential, this is at the time of the recession. The imbalance provides for some flexibility in the management of public financial policy as it allows for a structural deficit of 0.5 % of GDP. The other of the inequalities, however, sets the ceiling for expenditure per year for a time when the level of GDP is above the potential, i.e. at the time of economic expansion. Taking account of the other inequality ensures that public financial surpluses will be created in good economic times, and they will depend on the structural deficits created in bad economic times. The imbalances determine only the ceilings and the planned level of expenditure of the State sector in a given year will also have to take into account the past and envisaged future fiscal policy in order to ensure a structural smoothing of public finances on average throughout the economic cycle. However, another major substantive change concerns the appointment of members of the Fiscal Council and the restrictions on employment in that body. The members of the Fiscal Council are to be proposed in accordance with the amended bill only by the Government, which means that three different applicants are no longer envisaged than in the basic government proposal; the President of the Republic, the Bank of Slovenia and the Government were then envisaged. In order to elect the members of the Fiscal Council, a two-thirds majority of votes will be required to ensure their impartiality in the National Assembly. Such a solution will help to ensure that only experts enjoying a broad reputation are appointed in the Fiscal Council. Some organisational aspects of the Fiscal Council have also been changed as the employment limit for the President of the Fiscal Council has been raised from at least 20 to at least 50 % of full-time work and for members of the Fiscal Council from a maximum of 20 to a maximum of 50. The amended bill also limits the number of public servants who can be employed as professional staff in the Fiscal Council to four persons. This restriction seeks to prevent the establishment of the Fiscal Council from increasing the number of public servants by ten. Since, on the other hand, the Fiscal Council will be able to conclude cooperation arrangements with other institutional units of the State sector to prepare analyses and provide data for the Fiscal Council, with restrictions on the employment of the Fiscal Council, we have not made it impossible to carry out its tasks or to limit its independence. This is also illustrated by the fact that the Fiscal Council will have its own budget, with which it will have a free budget. In summary, we have taken into account the substantive proposals that have been presented to us in a number of interviews in recent months, while making sure that the law remains complete. At the end of this presentation, I would like to say something else about the effects of the fiscal rule on public financial policy. The adoption of the law does not in any way imply any automatic modification or reduction of social rights. However, it must also be borne in mind that, after all years of crisis, Slovenia's GDP is now 7% lower than before the crisis. Public spending needs to be adjusted. The capabilities are now smaller, so the rights cannot be restored to a pre-crisis level today despite economic growth. If we take into account another 3% of GDP for interest, it is almost 10% less, 9%. With all the necessary systemic changes and adjustments, we will continue to talk. Any structural change requires a change in sectoral legislation. By no means will these changes be the result of some unnecessary commitments made at international level, but this is necessary because of ourselves and future generations. And that is why today's decision to confirm the Fiscal Rule Act is whether we will afford even more today than we have and deny ourselves and our offspring a secure future and prosperity, or whether we will also take care of the long-term social security of our citizens and the promising future for young people in Slovenia. So much for the intro. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u47	Now I'm asking for applications. Mr. Franz Ly has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u48	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Dear Prime Minister of the Government, the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, we all have a very nice greeting! I think that we have before us a topic that is strategically important for Slovenia, for its future, because every day we are witnessing to the great appetites that come from economic growth. It is amazing how quickly we get big eyes and see every movement in the field of economic growth in a positive sense, and immediately turn it negative because we would like to spend that already, which has not even come into the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Above all, I think that in many areas, such as government income from income, there is a delay. However, we would like to use what will actually appear as a positive financial impact in the coming period or in the coming years. Do we want to have a competitive economy, a competitive country? I think so. I believe that there is not one person among us who is opposed. This means that we must abide by all those rules, the common rules of the monetary union that we have voluntarily entered. During those periods, especially the first time we entered, there have been significant positive effects in all areas, not to say how trade with European countries has also been simplified, especially I think about businesses here, and we have also recorded some progress at that time. Can we maintain this competitiveness in some way for today and tomorrow? Yes, if we are really going to confirm this implementing law, which in some ways means a mechanism to contain all those pressures on public finances that we are witnessing to them every day. This is of paramount importance because this is the only guarantee for sustainable economic growth, for sustainable social policy and that is all we want and nothing else. Therefore, my voice is certain to support this law because I know that I have taken a major step in the direction of state-of-the-art. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u49	The word is Luke the Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Minister of Finance and other representatives of the government. First of all, Mr Cerar said that with this fiscal constitutional law that we are adopting today, we are applying an obligation that only Slovenia has not yet fulfilled throughout the European Union. Three things have to be said here. In fact, for the first time, the international treaty that we have acceded to introducing a fiscal rule into our legal order was not mandatory, and, for example, the Czech Republic and Great Britain did not sign it. Another time. This international treaty, even after we have signed it, does not require us to introduce a fiscal rule at the constitutional level, as Slovenia does, but simply requires us to put a fiscal rule in the legal order. So we could accept it by a simple majority of 45 votes, and there would be no problem with changing the constitution if it turned out that the fiscal rule would have negative effects, which in the United Left we are very afraid will be, and in this case it would be significantly easier to correct it, because now we will need 60 votes in Parliament or an absolute two-thirds majority for any corrections to be adopted today. And the third time. The Prime Minister said that we had already withdrawn from the negotiations in the United Left. Here we have essentially expressed these two concerns to the government, namely, for the first time – why at constitutional level, why not simply delete the fiscal rule from the constitution, and then the government can accept it as an ordinary law. Secondly, we wondered why we have a stricter regulation than the international treaty. In fact, not only does the fiscal rule not have to be introduced into the constitution, but the second difference with the international treaty and our order is that the international treaty requires that the state may have a maximum of 0,5 % of the structural deficit on the medium term, as the Minister has also pointed out in his opening speech. In Slovenia, however, we have introduced a stricter provision into the Constitution, which says that it must have 0%, so also this 0.5% manoeuvre space that could be left on the middle hand, we have actually taken ourselves. Thirdly, we have not received an answer to how this formula prepared by the government will work in good times. And that was, somehow, also the reason that we decided that we could not support fiscal rules in this form in any way. Now, perhaps if I explain a little bit more about what the problem with the fiscal rule is. First, if we look at economic history, especially post-war, we will find out the following things. Firstly, no developed capitalist state applied a fiscal rule after the war. Secondly, the fiscal rule was not applied by any European country without its own currency before the crisis. Thirdly, the fiscal rule is in some ways now a constitutional commitment to saving, which, in fact, both the IMF and the rest of the European Union admits that it has proved to be highly counterproductive in the crisis. If I could afford a little walk through this history, I'd like to highlight the following things. Perhaps a slightly more distant example of the effects of fiscal consolidation on crisis resolution is found in the 1980s. Until the vote, there is still time to vote, so that perhaps the Members who have decided to vote for this law today, I recommend that you visit the parliamentary library and borrow a doctoral dissertation of Mojmir Dark, titled World South in the trap of debt, where it shows in what way the concept of the crisis that we introduce into Slovenia and Europe by introducing a fiscal rule has sunk the entire world in the 1980s, so that the whole world still remembers it today under the name of 'lost decade', and we repeat this mistake 30 years later in the European Union. Secondly, it is not necessary to go so far as to see the effects of fiscal consolidation during the crisis, in fact we can look at a purely domestic case. If we look at the European Union and the US and their responses, fiscal and monetary, to the crisis, we will find out two things. Firstly, in the United States, significantly less orthodox efforts have been made to resolve the crisis, namely, by means of so-called quantitative release, by significantly more relaxed fiscal policy, while the European Union has opted for fiscal consolidation, savings and the European Central Bank not to buy state bonds. If we look at the economic results, the economic balance of these two economies, the EU and the United States over the last seven years, we will find that the United States had recovered from the crisis a year after its outbreak and that today or 2014 it had 108% of GDP against the pre-crisis level, it is said, 8% more than they had before the crisis. In the EU, however, we have not had just one recession, but because of the fiscal consolidation in 2012, we have slipped into another recession, from which we have only just now gathered, and the result is that in 2014 we have 99% of GDP in the European Union according to the level before the crisis, it is said that the difference is 8% of GDP between one and the other way of resolving the crisis. And today, in fact, this way, which has proved to be completely flawed in both social and economic aspects, we introduce or enforce as a constitutional law. Even if we look at a fully domestic case, Slovenia, we will see that we have already recorded economic growth in 2010 and 2011, and then, because of fiscal consolidation, we are very violent in those years, in 2012 in particular, we have slipped back to the second recession, from which we were raised only in 2014. In some ways, Minister Marble acknowledges these harmful effects. In fact, in the hearing we had a few months ago, when SDS proposed a fiscal rule with the so-called Swiss formula, Minister Marble has repeatedly made very clear in his speeches of position, which are very close to what I have now said, I will just say a few quotations. Firstly, the Minister agreed at the time that saving has a markedly negative impact on economic growth and employment, as he said, quote: "The European Stability Pact is already extremely restrictive and is therefore the subject of many discussions, and here is the big question in Europe whether it is even appropriate, especially given the difference in growth between the United States, which has rejected this as inappropriate, but have its monetary policy, where economic growth is now around 4% of gross domestic product, and in the EU, where economic growth is around 0.8%." And then it continues, and as a key reason to oppose the then proposal of the SDS fiscal rule, it sets a limit on the flexibility of fiscal policy compared to international obligations. He says, "You have all the research you want. This would reduce economic growth and employment and have a negative impact on everything that depends on it, and as you know, the whole country depends on it." Thus, in his previous reading, Minister Marble agreed that the fiscal rule has negative economic and social effects. We can read in the Ministry of Finance that the experience from Slovenia in 2012 also shows that large-scale fiscal consolidation has a strong negative impact on economic activity. From this I conclude that we agree that we must not impose fiscal rules in this way, because it will harm us not only socially but also economically for a long time. Then the next issue, which is problematic, is that when we talk about the Swiss formula proposed by the SDS, such a formula can be implemented in Switzerland, which is a country with its own currency and Slovenia does not have its own currency, and in the currency area where monetary policies are mainly taken for the benefit of the centre, is said to be Germany and the northern countries, but Slovenia, we can imagine it, is somehow attached to the former German brand, and even though the less competitive economy than Germany, we have virtually 8 years since the adoption of the euro we have not devalued our currencies. Therefore, now that we have monetaryly tied hands, accepting this fiscal coercive jacket is deadly for such a country. This is also what Minister Maramor said, which, if I quote him again, said: "And the European Stability Pact, which I have said is very restrictive, is much more appropriate for Germany than for Slovenia, which is exposed to much higher shocks than a small very open economy. The ECB's monetary policy is essentially focused on the economic situation in Germany and other large euro area members rather than on Slovenia. However, Germany has no stricter rules than European rules." This is a quote from Minister Marble six months ago, and today we are adopting stricter rules than those in force in the European Community and in Germany. Once again, there is no need for a constitutional level, and secondly, the structural deficit could have a minus 0.5% in the medium term following the signing of the contract, not 0% as we have committed ourselves. The Minister will probably reply that these were his comments on the Swiss formula, but I think we are quite speaking against the fiscal rule in general, and it should also be stressed that there are no differences between the government and the Swiss formula that the Minister may be trying to present. In fact, they both require 0% of the structural deficit on the medium term, by saying that the Swiss formula is a little more brutal in bad times, for example, if a fiscal rule was adopted when the opposition SDS proposed it, they should be cut into public finances already in 2015 for 700 million euros, which means, you can imagine how many cuts to education, health, social and so on, but the government formula is problematic because it is a bit nicer in bad times, which is why it is so much more problematic in good times. In fact, if we take into our hands a simulation of the fiscal rule drawn up by the Ministry of Finance and look at, say, the period 2000-2004, we see the following trends: Slovenia had a constant budget deficit of around EUR 500-600 million, had an economic growth of between 3% and 4%, and its debt fell below 30% in 2004 despite constant deficits, due to moderate economic growth and inflation. It is said that the country can have long-term or medium-term unbalanced public finances, but if it has some moderate economic growth and smart public spending policy and moderate inflation, it can either regulate the budget or it can regulate debt in this way. As I said before, Germany, for example, after the war in the last 70 years, had never had a flat budget, with the exception of 2014, and therefore its debt from the London Memorandum in 1953 was never a problem. But let me get back to my original point. If we take these years from 2000 to 2004 and look at how the government formula would work in 2002. This year, Slovenia had 3.8% growth, 600 million deficits, but since it was a good year, it should have 50 million surpluses after the Swiss formula and 100 million surpluses after the government formula. Thus, for 700 million in 2002, when Slovenia's GDP was 23 billion, public spending should be reduced by 700 million. If I were to illustrate what that would mean. In the same year, expenditure on all monetary social benefits amounted to EUR 346 million. So if all the social benefits were to be abolished, we'd only be halfway through the fiscal effort. Then there would be a need for layoffs in the public sector, pensions cuts, health care, education and so on. And the question is, could the country in this way, if a government decided in 2000 to start to follow the fiscal rule that we are introducing today, whether a country like Slovenia could still be social after 15 years at all. In fact, if we look at our human development indicators, we'll notice the next thing. Slovenia currently ranks 25th among all countries in the world according to the Human Development Index. We're right in front of Finland and Italy. And not only in front of all Eastern European countries, but also in front of all Southern European countries. The reason for this is that we had a traditionally strong public sector that held this society up and allowed it to develop fairly equally and in solidarity for all. If a fiscal rule were to be applied, let's say if we were to embark on a path that some other countries, such as the Baltic States, had chosen, an example is Latvia, which has chosen the path that we are now taking, 15 years ago, but we see that there are the highest levels of risk of poverty there, that inequality in these companies is the greatest, that the lack of access to education, health care and other services due to the extremely small public sector is the greatest. And only in the last 20 years have more than 15% of the population migrated from Latvia. Today we are adopting a law that for the next few years, even decades, can keyly determine what the concept of society we want to have. Whether we want to have a solid, social model of society, with some moderate growth rates, or whether we want on the other hand with some administrative experiment of fiscal rule, with two rather mythological arguments that Slovenia will go bankrupt if it does not accept it, and that the only alternative is debt. If we want to cut into public finances in this way, we can get badly burned – and I would like to stress this in the end – because despite calls, the Ministry of Finance has not prepared a simulation for the coming years, how fiscal rule will affect both growth and employment and the social state. Now we have some assurances from the Minister of Finance, but if we look at past years, we see that we should cut into everything that the government currently says will not be necessary. Therefore, in the United Left, we will not support the fiscal rule, but we also hope that the coalition Members will have a substantial change of heart until the vote, whether it pays to support it or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u51	Mr. Jan Škoberne has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u52	Dear Mr President, President of the Government, Minister, Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I could, under the words and implementation of my colleague Mesca, freely and gladly sign if, of course, it did not belong to that part of Slovenian policy, which today needs to moderately and responsibly accept a compromise and commitment to manage this country in a sustainable manner, with a view to its sustainable development and which, in view of the urgency of the long-term perspective, cannot afford to wave on ideology and surf on populism. It's nice and interesting, but it's irresponsible and unserious. All bad luck today is that we are discussing the adoption of this law at a time when we can look, unfortunately, at a very unfortunate picture of Greece, what happens, but when the country is long-term in charge of current consumption and, b, what happens when such a country is hit by radical austerity measures without considering how much reckless saving can hit the standard of people and jeopardize economic growth. Today, Greece has more than 50% of the unemployed among young people due to both. Because, on the one hand, she did not know how to stop by populism spending on current consumption, and on the other hand, because the conservative and neoliberal part of the European policy of Greece has abused and used Greece as an experienced rabbit, which today suffers severe consequences and will suffer even more in the future, as the Greek Prime Minister has also found after the referendum he declared a great victory, today he has thus agreed to the terms of the creditors who, through the referendum he convened himself, has opposed. Social Democrats, of course, understand that the state is neither household nor printing money. It cannot afford to spend only as much as it has, because it has to think about investing in development projects, creating economic growth through its injections and interventions, and in particular ensuring the possibility of further economic growth even when the country is in crisis. At the same time, he must not allow himself to spend this money simply because of the possibility of money being made to raise the standard in a short period of time and to give the feeling that we can live better and otherwise than we can. Neither extreme is feasible nor acceptable. It is therefore important that we today adopt and also adopt this compromise proposal, which, on the one hand, requires us to maintain sustainable public finances in the medium and long term, while at the same time allowing us to intervene appropriately in cases of significant deterioration in the economic situation, social, natural or other disasters, in which we do not have an impact, to awaken economic growth, to ensure that citizens and citizens have an adequate social standard and to prevent Slovenia from ever being caught in a trap that has been caught up in the past years by the situation and also by the lack of understanding of conservative policy around the necks of Greek citizens and citizens. It is not a simple decision and it is not a decision that we can expect to be applauded and paraded, certainly not. However, this is a decision that allows us to use resources that are at our disposal for long-term development and which, unlike many who have a populist interpretation of otherwise, allows us to also implement the principle of the sovereignty of this country, which we celebrated with joy and festivities days ago. What is extremely important is the fact that we are not only adopting this fiscal rule because of some of the past commitments we made during the crisis to calm the external markets, our partners. We – earlier on we talked about the foreign policy strategy – have decided to go to the European Union, we have decided to want the euro, we have set ourselves goals that have been clearly exposed to the independence that we understand today and which we want to pursue in the future: that we will be a stable country, that we will be a predictable economy that supports innovators, allowing new opportunities for development and, above all, that we will be a country that is social, solidarity and provides citizens with equal opportunities. We will not be able to provide equal opportunities even to the door because then our tools for the exercise of authority in foreign hands, nor will we be able to implement policies for ensuring equal opportunity and solidarity if we fully limit ourselves in debt and take the opportunity to intervene when the state needs support in providing economic growth or when our citizens and citizens need assurance that their basic existential standards will not be reduced, whether it be health, education or existential issues, which we will discuss on Friday at an extraordinary meeting. Social Democrats are so responsible, and in some ways with a positive view forward, we are adopting a compromise version of this proposal, which on the one hand prevents them from binding themselves on their own, and, on the other hand, prevents them from allowing it to foreigners because of unwise policies. And since colleagues of the Moon have correctly found that no country has applied the fiscal rule since the war was restored, let me just say that the post-war situation would probably be considered to be a case of an unusual event that cannot be affected and has significant implications for the financial situation of the State sector, in this case we are talking about suspension, acute measures, austerity or the necessity of medium-term budgetary balancing, because of the need to answer other issues and other questions. For all the events of this order, we have an exception here that prevents us from letting people down. And once again, when Alexis Cipras took over the government, he took it with extraordinary predictions of what had changed and how much debt he would not have to pay. It is not his fault, it is exclusively a matter of long-term responsibility for current consumption and the result of an extremely radical conservative requirement to be saved at all costs. Neither Slovenia can afford nor can it, nor will it happen to each other if we are responsible for supporting this law and if we are responsible for leading the Slovenian policy forward. I'm counting on support from both SDS and the United Left. It is true, however, that sailing on the waves of populism is also permitted and, I believe, suitable for short-term entertainment. Thank you and good luck!
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u53	The word has magic. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u54	In New Slovenia, we understand fiscal rule as a mechanism to prevent the Greek script. As a mechanism to prevent us from having restrictions on raising cash in ATMs amounting to €60 to prevent us from running out of pension money, and not least, that we still have some money left to pay public sector wages. I will not swim on the waves of populism, and I will try the things I have just said, even very specifically to justify. Slovenia is now in charge of EUR 30 billion. The EUR 30 billion each year to the budget is causing a billion-euro interest-only cost. That's a tenth of our budget. Maybe if we think of numbers, there seems to be a dozen more, a small and insignificant number, but if we compare this tenth with concrete projects, we find out a lot. With this tithe, which we give each year for interest and only for interest, we could build a second track; remember how much debate there was about the second track in our Parliament. With this 10%, we could build new hospitals and provide better health care, a better network of emergency medical care. This money could be used to repair a number of holed roads and bridges that today block traffic across Slovenia. With this 10% could be done in Slovenia. Therefore, in New Slovenia we understand the fiscal rule as a mechanism to stop the growth of interest costs. We have a lot of opponents, especially on the one hand, who say, stop saving, because of this, stop the fiscal rule. The boys and the girls on the other side forget to say what the word "save rate" is. The second part of this story is, if we're looking at a "save rate", that means we're going to have a little more debt each year. And that the amount we are earmarking for interest in the budget could be increased from 10% to 15, 20 and so on. In fact, it would be right that colleague Mesec and his colleagues know that the words "stop saving" mean lower pensions, poor public health and poor infrastructure in Slovenia. It's the result of this verbal relationship. Yesterday was an interesting debate on Television Slovenia about Greece, where, I must say, I was shocked by the words of Mr Mencinger, who said completely vehemently: "Saving doesn't work." That Greece is proof that saving does not work. If the professor were very correct and precise, he should say that overexpenditure doesn't work. That's a fair point. So you don't say I'm a demagog, I'm going to explain these things in concrete terms. The case of Greece is very eloquent. Every year, like Slovenia – in this respect we have been on the same path for a very long time – they have spent a little more than they have gathered in the budget and they have committed themselves. And they did it every year. Until the moment came when no one else loaned them money. Then what? Then, of course, they asked for help. And when they got this help, there were also certain rules, because some of you in this House would lend money if you didn't have some guarantees to get it back. Maybe former Minister Križanič, some other heroes to hold their hand up now, and I can't see. A fellow moon spoke of the text of the World’s South in a trap of debt. Again, he explained only the first part of the story. And I forgot the other part of the story. And this second part of the story is that the European and the other South got caught in a debt trap just because they were spending too much. And the result was that then this south was increasingly dependent on those who loaned him money. And apparently, some of you still force us to live in the same way we've lived before, which means that we're actually going to fall into this south that's caught in the debt trap. And this will make us even more dependent on lenders and less sovereign, the pressure on citizens will be greater. Another such demagogous debate, which occurs many times in this House, is to say, "Do you know who in 50, 70 years of history after World War II did business without a blemish?" Again, it's just the first part of the story. The second part of the story is whether you were dealing with a 10% deficit or a 1% deficit. This is a key matter. If it is 1% of the deficit, there is much to be replaced by growth, but if it is 10%, there are few heroes who can replace it. The famous ZUJF, to which there were so many comments and dissatisfactions. I think there were Greek islands there somewhere in 2012 or we were very close to them. And if it weren't for this famous ZUJF, I'm sure we'd be on the same path as Greece today. To confirm and prove this, the results of the government of Alenka Bratušek, which adopted these measures, may have continued and, as she has said many times, prevented any other foreign trinity from arriving. So that you don't get it wrong now, because there's a lot of times he puts his words in his mouth. I am not a proponent of saving at all costs, but I am in favour of adapting my spending to abilities, because if we do not do so, then everything else leads us to a lot of dependence. We're talking a lot about Greece. This is most likely to be the case with my colleague Trčko. However, I will use other examples on purpose, such as Lithuania, Latvia, Spain and Ireland, where certain austerity measures seem to be taking effect. The important difference between these countries I have just mentioned and Greece is that, of course, commitments have been fulfilled and are now out of the worst storm, but some have not done so and are in even greater trouble today. And I don't know, sometimes I wonder if it's really that hard to understand the logic in which we live, but today all things cost. They even say there's no free lunch left. And that's why I want to know how they justify those who call Stop Saving! Stop the fiscal rule! where the money comes from. From where? Or how do we stop this bike? It's always some mysterious thing I can't explain. I understand that it's uncomfortable and that it's easy to say stop saving! Stop tightening the belt!, I can understand all this because no one wants to save themselves, but I don't know what's next. Times have passed when some factories have been printing money for as long as they need it. We also know the consequences of printing this money. I'm starting to conclude. I have a year-and-a-half-year-old daughter Julia, one of whom is still on the road, and so I would really like to do everything to have my descendants live in a better Slovenia and not put the burdens of today's times on them. So I find it really irresponsible of those who, in order to achieve their political goals, somehow destroy the future of young people. I will uphold the fiscal rule myself, even though these days it is extremely unpopular, if you will, even painful. From this, it is impossible to forge political points, and you can lose more of them, but I think it is crucial that we in this House, too, take on some responsibility and unpleasantness in order to make it better tomorrow.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u55	Procedural Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. I'm sorry, I was monitoring this meeting from the office and preparing for it. I know that you, Mr President, are interpreting the Rules of Procedure, I hope that it is also substantive, so my proposal is to answer my question, is this a debate on the 12th item of the Proposal for a Fiscal Rule Act, or is this a free debate on Greece and on everything that is alive? Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u57	Given that we are talking about Article 3 of the SDS Group's amendment and that we are at the first amendment, which, after established parliamentary practice, allows for a broader debate, we are still there. However, I would like to point out that this width has been taken over by your President, and on the basis of this, it is normal for all of us to have this opportunity to respond to such a debate with such breadth. I suggest if you want to be included here or anywhere else to apply to the word for content. Now he's got the word "magic." Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, distinguished ministers, Minister of Finance, welcome! Given that this debate in the National Assembly has actually started quite wide, from what we propose in the amendment to 3. Article, of course, I will at the beginning take this time and this opportunity to explain a little bit more and explain the role of fiscal rule, the role of the fiscal world and, of course, the overall course, including the legal framework that we are talking about today. In the beginning, I would like to be united here in the National Assembly, unifying at least one matter — what is saving. Savings are for me in the event that we actually have more income in the country or in the congregation or in the family budget than expenditure and we put more of these revenues aside in order to buy some goods so that we can invest, etc. Saving is certainly not consumption if there is a need that we want to meet and we are in charge of it. As we have an assignment here, I think it's the opposite of saving. That's why I would tell those on the other side of the hall when you talk about saving, we're a long way from saving. We are far from saving mainly because we have a deficit, whatever the structural, non-structural or whatever, and because we owe 80% of gross social product and more, which means a little more than 30 billion, I speak for the state of Slovenia. And that is why, if we are talking about a debate, I would be so focused that I am not talking about saving if I am not in debt. Far from it. And here I would like to be so honest if someone in the past owed 20 billion and spent it, say, the government of Borut Pahor with the financial minister of the principle of Križanič, that of course then does not talk about how this party is constantly saving something. But no one has mentioned this and not from a populist point of view to say that this is actually happening if we are actually as indebted as we are, and if this is why we are paying one billion euros in interest today and, of course, this also affects future generations. So here, of course, I'd be talking about these bums that I've set up right now, and of course I'd be talking about the law itself. Of course, I will also talk about the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. There's something else before that. This debate did not start today, nor did it start yesterday, but this debate started at the beginning of 2012 and at the end of 2011, when an initiative was actually taken to introduce a fiscal rule with the Law on the Ratification of the Intergovernmental Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Management in the Economic and Monetary Union. On this basis, the Constitutional Act, which provides, inter alia, in Article 148, in the second paragraph, that the revenue and expenditure of the State's budgets must be balanced in the medium term, without being indebted or must exceed the expenditure. We are saying 'no debt' and now I have come to this because I said it a little bit in the past, to the legal framework for it, and this is defined by the Constitution, and the Stability Pact states that 0.5% of the deficits in gross social product are possible. The first question raised here is, is this law in accordance with this Constitution? This is the first question that is actually being asked, whether someone is against it or not. During the whole period, will the Minister of Finance talk about 2020, in fact, the policy will be financial, economic, economic, social, whatever policy the government is leading, in accordance with this Article? And I doubt that's true. I doubt it. And he has some real basis for that, too. The second thing I would like to mention is that, of course, we have to go to the Constitutional Act and the Constitution adopts legislation, and we will probably vote on this law today, at least so on the agenda, of course, is that this article, which I mentioned earlier, is that "the revenue and expenditure of budgets must be balanced in the medium term, without any debt", is used for the first time in the preparation of the country's budgets for 2015. This is Article 148 of the Constitution. And the fact is, ladies and gentlemen, we are in an unconstitutional situation today. I'm not going to say that because of this government alone, because before that we had another government that didn't do it either. But today we are not in a constitutional state, if not otherwise, because in 2015 or in preparation for 2015 it was not prepared in accordance with this Article of the Constitution. And here, of course, we are now faced with two dilemmas, this being said on the one hand, whether the law is in line with the constitution, where the deficit is not foreseen, and on the other hand, as with the 2015 budget, because of course it is much clearer. And if we are now coming from this, it is very easy to say here what the actual fiscal rule means. It means you spend as much as you create, no debt. Very simple. And people know this criterion. They don't know the standard to spend as much as you create and as much as you owe. And that's not saving up if you owe yourself. Respectable United Left, that's not saving. If you're in charge, if we're going to the bank today, you're in debt, buy a new car, you're not saving anything. And the policy, the real policy of the household, the state, the municipality cannot be based on debt. For then, on the other hand, we have these ugly capitalists, under quotations, and, of course, those who want interest and so on, and we are also paying one billion interest today. Because we're in debt. Most in the history of Slovenia during the Prime Minister Borut Pahor and Finance Minister Križanič. As a result, some speculation about some stability, and so on, is completely irrelevant, which is what the representative of the Social Democrats is actually saying today. 8 billion were in debt in 2008 and 26 billion were in debt in 2011. There's a perfectly clear picture of all of this. Let's look at the statistics. If we go to what the Prime Minister has said now, it will be a strict marriage. President of the Government, I don't think there's gonna be a strict law, I think there's actually going to be too many derogations under this law, and the government has too much power over the fiscal world, and it's not the fiscal world that's going to oversee the government. This has happened with the latest changes proposed here by the coalition. Another story is that, of course, we all agree that at a time when we have a recession, we also have to give up in some way, and at a time when we have a conjuncture, we need to save more for bad times and so on. There's no problem. However, during the period when the country has fallen economic growth, a very low decline in economic growth – I will say, for example, by 0.1% of the point, for example, that economic growth falls from 0.5% to 0.4%. — this formula you have submitted by the coalition with the government means that expenditure will fall by 0.5% of the gross social product. In other words, 180 million. You will come here with a budget, a budget rebalancing and say, look, this actually happened. And that's what this formula actually means. That means the matter is unstable. The matter is unstable at a time of a small decline in economic growth. I will not go now substantively why, but this gives the mathematical formula and mathematical calculation. Our proposal, which we propose and we support, does not provide for that. The so-called Swiss formula means that if economic growth falls by 0.1% of the gross social product, expenditure will also fall by 0.1% of the gross social product. Here we're talking 0.1% of the gross social product, of course the gross social product is 35 billion, so we're talking 0.1 35 million, 0.5 about 180, 175 million. And that's the problem. It's content. I am now with the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. And we propose that, even at the time of the fall, a symmetric principle be put in place, which will make it easier for the government as well. I must be honest with you, we have not found this in the Slovenian Democratic Party about the differences. That's what the experts found out. I think they talked to you or to the Minister of Finance, to us, to everyone and so on. These are the ones who know the formulas, so to speak. And we all believe them because we have already said this many times, and after all, there was no opposition. And here's the question of what exactly with this proposed formula that you're proposing, you're going. You will make the situation difficult for yourself and, of course, your government and, of course, for further governments. The shocks on the spending side will be higher. I don't know if you want to hear this here, but the shocks on the spending side will be greater due to the use of this formula. And that is clear, you have expert articles on this, I will not tell you the authors can also tell you the authors. [[…]] Here is the question, and our proposal goes in the direction that this weakness of your formula simply goes beyond the amendment, and this amendment is legalized, and we support the law. You will get a better marriage and, of course, you will get a law that will also be adopted by a greater majority. That's our proposal. I am speaking, of course, of this proposal. We can talk about public finances for a long time and in a broad way. The Minister of Finance also mentioned why we are actually adopting this law – because of the Stability Pact, because the European Union is going to sue us, because we are going to pay the penalty and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, if we accept this law for anything, we accept it for ourselves and because of the fact that the past governments, most of the past governments, have not already complied with the fiscal rule that we already have in the Public Finances Act and which is already established for a regulation and that fiscal rule is set about like this, we have a formula again and so on, but no one takes it into account and there is no punishment. And no one in the past, if you want, has taken it into account that there will be no mistake. During a period of time, it has been taken into account and I will not cite it, because then there will be too much debate. It's because of me. And because we are alone, we simply do not accept what we choose for ourselves. And not for punishment, but for at least a little bit to satisfy the Constitution, what the Constitution tells us that we will be at least a little legally relevant in this regard. The penalties are, of course, I agree, but there is also a need to set priorities in this regard. And secondly, what I say again is the question of the actual constitutionality of this law, because the Constitution does not allow 0.5% of the deficit as permitted by the Stability Pact. Here I am a legal legal formalist. We in the Slovenian Democratic Party have supported the fiscal rule from the start. We passed two laws in the past on the fiscal rule. Both laws were rejected by the then coalition. The laws were clean. One law was even drawn up on the basis of a group that was organised at the time, political, professional groups and so on. For this coalition, that marriage wasn't right, even though I think it was better than it is now. It has drawn up a new law, but this law is not strict and has very large shortcomings in the conduct of economic and financial policy. Of course, I believe that today I will convince and convince the coalition that the solution we are proposing is better and that it wants better. If the coalition supports our proposal and our amendment, we will also support the fiscal rule law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u59	Mrs Urska Ban has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u60	Mr President, thank you so much for your words. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Honourable Council of Ministers, Honorable Fellows and Fellow Members! Today, we are in the final stage of parliamentary consideration of the fiscal rule law, which has been in place since January 2015, when we Members have voted 79 votes in favour and I think 5 against it has been considered appropriate for further consideration. To date, this bill has experienced some both substantive and nomotechnic additions or corrections that we have postponed in the form of coalition amendments and also adopted at the last regular session of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. As has already been mentioned several times today, by means of a proposal or by adopting this law we are both late under the amended Constitution, Article 148 of the Constitution in 2013, the transposition of directives relating to budgetary frameworks and the transposition of the provisions of the fiscal pact. In our parliamentary group, we believe that we have been very constructive in this parliamentary process for the past six months, since we have been dealing with this law, both the coalition's parliamentary groups, the opposition, the two national communities. The text of the law that we have on the tables today, which we are going to decide on, has improved in particular to our common benefit, the benefit of our public finances and the future of our country. It is only a coincidence that we are adopting this law just in times of considerable financial and other circumstances, here I am also thinking in the light of the events that are taking place in Greece, which we have already heard about today, have listened to and which, of course, also affect Slovenia and the whole of Europe. And just so that it doesn't happen to us or that we don't go the way we can follow it today, or that we don't end up like the old saying: First the country takes the credit, then the credit takes the credit, and eventually they take the country. That's why I think it's important that this law is being passed today. I will conclude here with a debate on Greece and other topics and will focus on the very content of the proposed law and amendments tabled by the SDS and the United Left. The version of the law already drawn up by the previous government, as has already been said today, has been upgraded mainly in the direction of allowing adjustment, allowing flexibility permitted by the European rules on fiscal policies, in particular in the direction of promoting economic activity in poor and cooling overheating economic activity in good times, taking into account Article 148 of the Constitution, which requires the medium-term balance of public finances. This is mainly the case in three points: firstly, that a structural deficit of 0,5 % of GDP during the recession, secondly, is the exclusion of one-off expenditure from the ceiling of expenditure calculated on the basis of the proposed inequalities in the law and, thirdly, the definition of exceptional circumstances which are consistent with that of the Stability and Growth Pact. We believe that such an adjustment is necessary for a country such as Slovenia, which is a small open economy and does not have its own monetary policy, as shocks in economic activities can mainly be addressed through fiscal policy. However, despite these adjustments, which I have mentioned in the proposal, although some of us have heard, feel otherwise, that there is a strict limitation written down, which will require a few more adjustments in order to phase out the structural deficit that is now moving around 2.5% of GDP. This rule, which is an essential emphasis, will enable us to avoid creating an additional public debt in Slovenia during normal economic times through the economic cycle for ongoing public spending. The proposed law, as has already been said today, has been supplemented by two inequalities in Article 3 through the findings of the parliamentary debate since January. Unequalities to determine the ceiling for expenditure, where one determines the maximum allowed expenditure within a period when the GDP level is below the potential, are said to allow a structural deficit of 0.5 % of GDP at the time of recession, while the other relates to good time and sets the ceiling for expenditure per year at the time of economic expansion. Taking this inequality into account ensures that public financial surpluses will be created in good economic times. Whether in good times it is necessary to pursue a public financial policy that will not only compensate but also create structural surpluses, is largely dependent on the structural deficits created in bad times. The rule in this form allows accumulated structural deficits from bad times to be replaced by structural surpluses in times beyond potential GDP growth. In accordance with this proposal, the structural balance may only be negative in a given year and, on average, in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution, it must be at least offset in the medium term or in excess, in accordance with the amended Article of the Constitution. At this point, our understanding of the fiscal rule is different, as previously presented to us by our colleague Shircelj or as proposed by SDS, that the so-called Swiss formula is more appropriate to calculate the ceiling of expenditure instead of the so-called inequalities. However, compared to what is proposed in this law, with these two inequalities, in bad times it does not allow further promotion of economic activity through the application of fiscal policy to the maximum permissible structural deficit of 0.5% of GDP. It requires continuous structurally balanced public finances both in good times and in bad times. The Swiss formula also limits the way to determine the state of the economy in the cycle to the calculation of the trendy level of GDP, and this government bill refers to the European Union methodology. And this rule, proposed by the government, ensures that public debt will not increase due to current public spending. At the same time, structural balance over the medium term ensures that debt will decrease as a percentage of GDP. This is also a key indicator of the sustainability of public finances from the point of view of international financial markets. However, debt may be increased due to exceptional events or because of unique effects. We have already had such cases, including the case of Greece's rescue. On the other hand, it will decrease through the effects of privatisation. All of this is not included in the framework set out in this rule proposed by the Government. Maybe a few more words about the Fiscal world. The fiscal world is much more specifically defined in the final text of the law that we have on the table today than it has been in previous versions of the law. Four articles of the 18 proposed law refer specifically to the Fiscal Council, which allows this Fiscal Council to be established without the adoption of additional legal bases or additional laws. It is true that in the basic government version of the proposal, three drafters, the President of the Republic, the Government and the Bank of Slovenia, were thought to have ensured impartial membership in the Fiscal Council, but through the parliamentary procedure from the first to the present reading of the proposal, such an arrangement has been assessed as too complex. Therefore, it has also been amended on the basis of talks and arrangements. It was also considered the solution resulting from the procedures for the appointment of governors and vice-governors and members of the Court of Auditors, where the President of the Republic has the primary role, but this arrangement was not assessed as the best in terms of the constitutional profession. In line with the complementary proposal, the members of the Fiscal Council are proposed by the Government, all three members are proposed by the Government and the State Assembly by a two-thirds majority vote. In doing so, we wanted to ensure that there will be indeed experts in the Fiscal Council who enjoy a broad reputation in our society. In addition, the government will not be able to name what was also one of the exposed eyesets of favored experts in the Fiscal Council. In most countries, the Fiscal Council has no direct impact on public finances in the form of automatic consequences that would trigger the opinion of the Fiscal Council. It is true that there is no universal model of operation and organisation of the Fiscal Council that would be suitable for all countries. The rules of the European Union set out the tasks of the Fiscal Council, the rest being governed by each country individually. We must take care of ourselves or place this body within our institutional framework, clearly define powers and responsibilities, ensure client or political independence, provide resources for the functioning of this body and for communicating it with the public. At the level of this implementing Fiscal Rule Act, we believe that we have met these criteria set by EU legislation. The independence of that body is ensured, as foreseen in the previous draft law and has already been aligned with the parliamentary groups. As an independent body, however, it is also envisaged not least in the coalition contract. As a new budgetary user, financial resources will be provided for its operations and all three members of this Fiscal Council will need the support of Members and Members, i.e. Parliament, with a two-thirds majority. Where I see the key power of the fiscal world. I think it stems from its impact on public opinion, through the possibilities of communicating with the public and the public with its assessments. At the same time, the responsibility of the Government and the National Assembly in the design and management of fiscal policy is maintained. More important and crucial, in my view, is who will be the members of the so-formed Fiscal Council and how they will successfully monitor budgetary policy, from planning to implementation. And only with its functioning will the Fiscal Council create the necessary credibility of this institution and respect. The role of the Fiscal Council is to monitor compliance with the plans and to produce related assessments. As these evaluations will be public, the Fiscal Council will have an extremely important impact on the formulation of public opinion. The Government will be obliged to draw up its position to the opinion of the Fiscal Council and to make it available to the National Assembly by explaining which assessments it will take into account and which it will not. The fact that the Fiscal Council, as has already been said, does not directly shape fiscal policy is not a matter for Slovenian refugees, such as Slovenian origin, but also for other EU Member States. His role, here I think that our fiscal council is not overly loose, as was said or exposed in the previous debate, but his role comes from the EU rules, where he clearly writes, quote: "Although fiscal authorities are primarily responsible for ensuring compliance with correctional mechanisms, national supervisory institutions would be a key element in enhancing credibility and transparency. The principle to be taken into account or based on which the opinion of these supervisory institutions would either be taken into account or should be justified by the Member States concerned on why they did not take it into account, would ensure that such an assessment would not simply be ignored without prejudice to the responsibility of the fiscal authorities with regard to policy-making." Here I see the very right and proper regulation of the Fiscal Council, including in this bill. The law also provides for a transitional period for the gradual correction of the structural deficit of the State sector. This means that in the coming years the structural deficit of the sector will need to be gradually reduced by some 0.5 percentage points per year. This phase will prevent economic growth from requiring excessive cuts to the extent of public financial expenditure in order to comply with the fiscal rule. Under the assumption of economic growth, this is by no means an infringement of existing social rights, but certain appetites will have to be tackled and public expenditure will have to grow at lower rates than economic growth. However, once we have achieved structural balance between revenue and expenditure, we will be able to create reserves in good economic times, real budgetary surpluses, and in the poor, as I said before, also budgetary deficits. In order to comply with this rule, it will be crucial to achieve the highest possible level of economic growth on the one hand and to limit expenditure at a rate lower than GDP growth. The key idea is that due to economic growth, our public expenditure will not explode. Slovenia's GDP is still 7 percentage points lower in 2014 than it was in 2008. Well, if I can just get a little more of this together for the rest of my life. Obviously, the constitutional placement of this principle and the adoption of this law have ensured that things will not change due to political opportunism, for example by amending some of the ZIPRS novels we have done so far. It is a matter of responsibility, and this has been highlighted today, by our generations to their offspring and the cessation of the burden of debt on the next generation. Respect for the Constitution and this law, if we adopt it today, will therefore require every single Slovenian government to adjust spending accordingly, the expenditure side of the budget is true. In our parliamentary group, we want Members today to adopt this bill with broad support, including those parliamentary groups that have not supported this law in the parliamentary procedure so far. In particular, because we will commit ourselves to further responsible behaviour and to future public finances, which are certainly the basic condition for the further development of our country. The fiscal rule will put the executive power ahead of the obligation to propose and the legislative authority will oblige it to adopt budgetary laws that are balanced each year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u61	Would you like to discuss it again? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished ministerial team, President of the Government! The fact that public finances in Slovenia are not balanced, we have no idea how many times we have repeated them in the National Assembly. We also know that we have been in the process of surplus deficit since 2009 and that we need to reduce the budget deficit below 3% of GDP. The plan for this year is 2.9%, and I hope very much, and I also wish the Minister of Finance that he will succeed this year. If I talk about the debt first. Today we have a public debt of 82% of GDP or €31 billion. You might say that, given the average debt in the European Union, this is not enough. However, it is a matter of concern that we have already pointed out that this public debt has grown significantly in a very short period of time, from 2008 when it was 22% to today when we have it to 82%. And the important thing is that we didn't owe ourselves to invest. In this place, I'm sorry it's not a fellow Scobernet who pointed out this earlier. I would like to know which development projects the country could be in charge of, but only in the 2009-2011 period. The problem is that we were mainly responsible for maintaining social peace in the country. When we look at the budget deficit, in 2013 it was truly exceptional at 14.7%, which is normal because we know that we were doing the rehabilitation of the banking system at the time. In 2014, it is also extremely high, amounting to 4.9% of GDP or 1.8 billion euros, which is, of course, high above the objective set out in the Stability Programme. It's all about the debt. We pay more than a billion euros for interest due to such high indebtedness. More than 10% of what we actually get in the budget. And for an easier performance just transfer it either to the household or to your wages, and you can immediately imagine what that means. We know we have to return everything we borrow. There's no other way. And, of course, some irresponsible behavior is completely inappropriate. I agree that we need clear rules, which must also be clearly written. At the end of May 2013, we added a provision to the Constitution that the budget should be flattened in the medium term without any debt. The implementing law should be in place by the end of November 2013. It is now the summer of 2015 and we may be in some final stage of acceptance. The delay in the adoption of this implementing law has some consequences on our budget and here, I believe that the Minister of Finance is aware of this. I can't say it's bad today, but I can tell you it's not good enough. It is important to accept it by a two-thirds majority, which means that it will not be easily changed in the future. And how important it is that the marriage is truly optimal, the best. What I think is important is that at the time of economic growth, at the time of the transition, we have stricter restrictions on the area of expenditure. We have to pay back the debt of the country, and it is at the time of the conjuncture that this is subject to my assessment that the best conditions are also applicable. Our amendment goes in the direction of the Swiss formula simply because it has been tested in practice. Your inequality is not tested, which means it is somehow difficult to predict what its results are in the future. I would also like to point out these extraordinary circumstances. In fact, what bothers me here is that you allow for exceptions in cases of special circumstances. I would like to see it specifically written down, why, where and in what cases, if any. In general, I estimate that there is one simple fact to be derived from – first, it has to be earned, then you can lose it. And there's some boundless debt that's really irresponsible, bringing this to future generations, to our children. And we agree, this has been exposed several times today. Nevertheless, somehow I hope that there is some obedience to this amendment of ours, to the tested option that you will support it today and that this law will be adopted in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u63	The word is Frant Duck.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I can honestly say that this debate is a pleasure to me today. I am also pleased that we have a broad, united coalition opposite the United Left. Why is that, Mr Tonin explained yesterday, which repeatedly says that it will not be demagogous, it will not be demagogic, it will not be demagogic, and it will not be the EPP and US schools for me. [[…]] And, of course, it's demagogic. Fear is the domino effect, fear is the new left that brings and offers alternatives. As all of you are greater experts for Helada than I am personally and also for the economy, let alone for equations and inequalities, I will narrow the debate rather than widen it. Of course, it sounds so crazy kung fu, but you know, I'm based on basic education of natural mathematical technique, direction of applied mathematics. I understand these basic equations and inequalities, I hope to say, unlike many. If you think the fiscal rule — where the money will come from, as Tonin asks — will save Slovenia, then indeed, even though I am an atheist, God save! Let me give you a very brief explanation of the fiscal rule. The fiscal rule is impossible in a dry cow's time. Unless you want your people to blow up and die. But of course I haven't seen these great stories of your people. But in the time of fat cows, it's harmful because you're restricting development. And that is very clear to the Minister of Finance. Personally, Mr. Finance Minister is a very tragic figure to be allowed to sell this ideology, which is now in control. We are politicians, but if we were to read people who seriously analyze the world's changes, we would see that the economy has eaten politics. What Mrs Banova justified after she went to the second part of the long and wide world on the Fiscal Council: "In terms of international financial markets, on the other hand, it will be reduced by the effects of privatisation." Here you have this classic, purest ideology of the 21st century – an empty center. That's what we're listening to. I'm chewing. Slovenia is not in recession, we have a surplus of the current balance of payments account as a aggregate of countries, businesses and the population. Let's create more than we need. After 2 billion last year and so on, in short, 5.9% of GDP, the 2017 projection is 6.3, Umar. Don't we know how to collect taxes or don't you want to and can't look on the revenue side? But of course, you, the great economists, the whole world, the universe and something else, will not talk about it and deal with it. You're going to talk a little bit about Swiss formulas and equations and inequalities, and you might say something about rhubarbs and act crazy kung fu. Of course you must excuse your doing now. I'm not surprised that SMC does it the way it is. I am surprised that this is done by the parties who have, on behalf of Slovenia and democratically. Slovenian Democratic Party, you're full of paternity, patriotism, up and down. You're the one who started messing with that story. Social Democrats with fiscal rules. What will be left of social security? It's a retirement party. Once again, Karl Erjavec will no longer have a place to take money for pensioners, and even if the pension does not fall with inflation, it actually falls. But of course, you have to make a long and wide apology for this, you are a coalition visiting us and you will also take this responsibility. What's a fiscal rule, I said. Why it's harmful, I said. It's not a natural state of mind. Of course, we will vote against it, as I have already announced at first readings, because of Tonin's children and also my children and also yours. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr. Marko Ferruga has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. Let me begin with this: I repent in thoughts, words, and actions. So, I'm sorry, Mr. Ducky, who's gone, he's pissed off, but let's go back to the darkness. I'd like to start this debate on the fiscal rule with one parable. I see a fiscal rule as an anchor, that's why. The medium-term anchor for public financial stability and also a firm commitment to limiting debt, which is important to remember that we have these unfortunate 30 billion debt, while at the same time this commitment can be so flexible that it can also be facilitated in recession as the anchor rises and descends. But as far as fiscal rules are concerned, I would like to say the key messages she carries, regardless of who's in charge. First of all, I would say a balanced balance of the state sector over the medium term, without creating debts for current, public financial consumption. Secondly, it allows the management of anti-cyclical fiscal policy in bad times to the end of the line and, on the other hand, it can make an ambitious anti-cyclical fiscal policy in good times and thereby create fiscal reserves. Thirdly, an asymmetric rule that allows the limited use of fiscal policy to promote the economy in bad times when the economy is in good times has a more restrictive effect. The fourth point reduces the risk of countercyclicality in financial policy planning. The fifth point reduces the risk of significant errors in volatility and fiscal policy planning, while there is some room for manoeuvre in this structural deficit of 0.5 GDP. The sixth point, which is undoubtedly important, makes it possible in a sustainable way to reduce this unfortunate debt of 30 billion, which is crucial for the medium term, without weakening economic flows. And to conclude. If we succeed in ensuring the long-term sustainability of public financial policy, not forgetting the international commitments we have undertaken and making the necessary structural changes that will help us to lead the consolidation of our country, this fiscal rule is one of the key points of this government, so I support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u68	Thank you very much. For a long time, I think we've been talking about the fiscal rule for too long. Today we are listening to very educated explanations of what a fiscal rule really is. On the one hand, a very energetic debate about how we're going to kill our people has prevented them from breathing, and on the other hand, colleagues say that we're not actually going to do anything about it, so that we have to tighten things up even more. And poor people who look at us, who should actually be trusted. But if we try to say in our own way what fiscal rule is, we can say that we can spend as much as we create in some medium term. This does not mean every year separately, as colleagues from the United Left want to present, but at some point we just spend as much as we create. And that certainly doesn't mean killing a social state, as I've been hearing from my colleagues for a few hours now. True, it is easy for humans to promise both honey and milk nicely, even though you know that tears and sweat will flow. But that's very irresponsible. I can't get past the case of Greece and Greek Syria. I can't. In fact, this case shows us where irresponsible politics can lead. People can't raise their savings on the bank. They cannot raise €60 or stand in line for hours to raise €60. Pensioners don't get pensions. They also died because they waited in the sun to get 100 euros of their hard-earned pensions. Gasoline's on the fritz, not the dimes, 10%, and you don't get it yet. There are no basic necessities of life in stores. Is this the future we want for our people? Is that what we want for our people? I certainly don't. Therefore, once again, the case of Greece is an absolute example of irresponsible governance. It is certainly, once again, very irresponsible to promise people the impossible. And even in Slovenia we hear that it is best not to do anything and give people everything. Me, too. I give them everything, too, but we can only give them as much as we create. It's impossible to share in a foreign account. The Greeks went to the referendum and said no action. Today, I can read, perhaps also because of some nervousness in my colleagues from the United Left that a fellow Cypriot model sent a package to Brussels that is actually even more cost-effective and even harder than it was before the referendum. What helped the Greeks to go to the referendum and say no? What helped them? Nothing. They will have to do what we all have to do to our citizens and to our country. I cannot help but mention that we had a similar referendum in Slovenia. The year 2011 A referendum on pension reform. Two parties, the biggest supporters of this referendum, SDS and Desus. Even then, people said no. Even then, people said, "We don't want pension reform." Unfortunately, it didn't work out without it. And in 2012, the right year after the referendum, the government led by the SDS and Desus was a member of this government, adopted a pension reform because it is necessary to do so. And people, even in Slovenia, will have to understand that it is not possible to trust politicians who speak beautifully and likely, planting flowers and then doing everything else, because otherwise it simply does not work. And certain things need to be done in the country. And that's to make our future better and better. It's to make our children more beautiful and easier to live. The fiscal rule is a step that will lead us into real fiscal frameworks in the long term. That doesn't mean from today to tomorrow. That means gradually. The fact is that, with the adoption of this law, the procedures relating to the fiscal rule have not yet been fully completed. The rules of procedure of this National Assembly will need to be amended, and we need two-thirds of the support for this, and the Public Finance Act will need to be amended. Dear Minister, I expect you to include us in these changes in the preparation of the changes when they are being prepared, not until the end, when things are actually ready. I hope we are all aware that what we are doing in our country is to make our people better, and because we have to do it for ourselves. Here I am joining my colleague Shirtz, who has actually said the same thing, not because of Europe, not because of the demands, not because of the Stability Pacts, not because I don't know what, but because of the need to drive our people or to make responsible policies. However, it is also a law on fiscal rules. Yesterday I said the law was just a letter on paper. This law also applies to the fiscal rule law. It is important that all those who support this law today, and above all that the government, the ministers and the ruling coalition, are aware of what this means. Not to be seen again in the autumn of the preparation of the budget by blackmail and threats by withdrawing from the coalition. Minister, I wish you good luck in preparing a heavy budget for 2016. However, it would not have been easier if the fiscal rule law had not been passed. Because we are aware that we cannot live from the promise and because we are part of a responsible policy, all four Members of our Group will support the law. After all, we have already shown that with responsible policy we can preserve the social state and pull the country out of, I'll just say, a deep recession, a 5% drop, I think it can be a deep recession. But you can't do that with beautiful words and empty promises, only with actions. And only real actions give true results.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u70	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Minister and also distinguished Madam Minister! We are therefore ahead of the conclusion of this long story, the writing of a fiscal rule. We are therefore ahead of the implementing law on the fiscal rule – the last act, and I hope that this will be a success. The fiscal rule is part of the basic economic logic known by all households and must also be known by the state. So it's about your own commitments. State commitments to have a balanced budget and to spend only as much as we create. That's our base. But why do we need a fiscal rule in Slovenia? First, even because of the historical facts that we have spent in the past, we have spent more than we have created. And we are bearing these consequences today. We are responsible for 80% of gross domestic product. We are paying a billion 100 million euros in interest, which is slightly less than we are paying at the entire annual level, as let's say for pensions. That's why we need a fiscal rule. We need it to limit ourselves, because we need to limit ourselves. And that's what the coalition's about to find out. The budget forecasts are very bleak. We're going to witness something soon to share so-called candy. So, Mr. Secretary, we need self-limitation. If I keep going. In the past, we have truly, held to thesaurus, charged ourselves with social peace, and we have not saved. But speaking of saving, ladies and gentlemen, we can save only when we have something to save. In fact, Greece has nothing to save at this time. Greece must resolve this moment. So we're saving if we have this pile of money. For this reason, I agree that our consumption is limited even during the period of the conjuncture. Even in the time of so-called fat cows. Because we're going to save something during the crisis, if you want, for the dry cow time, we're going to fill our jaws with grain. Ladies and gentlemen, let me touch on the very formula that is now being debated, which is Article 3. Look, this formula is not the optimal solution on my part either, but it's much more than we have now. And this formula, while we're at it, works almost like a Swiss formula. It may allow for more flexibility in times of crisis, and there are also, which is most welcome, restrictions at the time of the conjuncture. Once again, I stress that we will not share candy when economic growth takes place. And before that, we appear to be this fall. However, moderation is essential. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today Greece has been mentioned many times, but Greece is a typical example of what happens if the logic of the fiscal rule does not work, what happens if we spend too much. There's been a bankruptcy. And before that fear was once Slovenia. Dear colleagues and colleagues! You speak, especially the United Left, that fiscal rule threatens the social state. No, no. The fiscal rule strengthens the social state and protects the social state. Why? See, taxpayers can use this money to pay off their debts to pay off their interest, for something smarter. Also for pensions, respected colleagues, including for our medical bills, hospitals, roads, student lunches, student meals and so on. And the fiscal rule primarily protects the rights of our last generations. This is why we say that it is also a smart rule, because a smart citizen will take care of the next generations. And if I finish. My daughter was born six months ago with 13,000 euros in debt. 14,000 euros in debt. And I do not want this debt to be added to her back during her life, so I will uphold the fiscal rule or this implementing law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues, Mr. Minister, the only representative of the government who remains here! Of course, I learned in a few less than a year in the National Assembly that there are virtually no easy decisions. They're heavy, they're less heavy, they're harder. In any case, this decision to adopt a fiscal rule is one of the most difficult. One that will have long-term implications for public finances in the Republic of Slovenia. We have to ask ourselves why this decision is coming. It comes because almost two years ago we passed a constitutional law or a constitutional change, where we committed ourselves to adopt a constitutional law within six months to talk about the sustainability of public finances. Of course, we haven't done that yet. Why didn't we do it? We didn't. I don't think we should be looking for a culprit right now. We are under the burden of possible financial penalties, so we need to react very quickly, but not too quickly and not recklessly, so that we do not write in a fiscal rule something that could have negative consequences like all or like many before me, for future generations. Of course, I would have liked to have this place, but it would have been too naive and too utopian for this law to be adopted today. Well, he needs it. For a simple reason, because we did not know how to agree in the past that we should be rational in the field of public financial expenditure in particular. Your Honor! We have a law before us that will certainly be passed today. Of course we have an alternative. The alternative to not accepting this law, not adopting it, is to eventually change the constitution, which, of course, we also need two-thirds, and we say that we will not accept this law. When we weigh each other's decisions, of course the decision to adopt a fiscal rule is better in any way and in any case better. A very negative signal would be given to the widest possible public if we decided to take that hypothetical step that I described earlier. In the Desus Group we will support this law. We have made a lot of efforts by the very adoption of this law, but we have not, in our view, coordinated every peak and every subset in the law daily with the Finance Minister, but we have been paying attention to those, in our view, major segments in the law's own direction. It is essential that the country's revenue and expenditure, or expenditure, are balanced over the medium term, without any debt or even more than expenditure. That's an essential point. This principle may be temporarily waived only in exceptional circumstances for a country which, of course, is not affected by such or otherwise. It also seems important to us that this second part, including these circumstances, including these exceptions, even if you want to, because it is necessary to know that in the future such moments can also occur, including such facts that could significantly endanger the social, material situation of the citizens of this country, particularly the most vulnerable target groups. I'm not going to list them. We know what groups they are. Therefore, through negotiations, through the efforts we have made in the preparation of this law and in the coordination of individual provisions, we have, of course, been very careful about this. What is still essential in this law is that, with these exemptions, exceptions that can take place, which, as the state has said, have no and cannot influence, we also feel that we are assessing and understanding this law, but, of course, I sincerely hope that we are wrong that this law will not interfere with the existing one or will not contribute to the reduction of the social rights of citizens. If that happens and I don't want to be black-eyed, we'll have to act. But the fact is, given the minimum, I would like to be honest, I have to say here that this discount is 0.5% of GDP, that of course it is a little higher, that there is more flexibility, but probably then on the medium term we would not achieve this purpose, this main point of the law, which is also written down. I would like to believe my colleague, Andre Shirtz, that his intention is good to make this law even better by proposing an amendment to Article 3 of the Law after he sees it, but I see it, and this is mine, our observation in Desus that such a law would be inappropriately more restrictive, inappropriate faster action would be necessary, and I am afraid that the main objective would not be to go beyond the Law on Fiscal Rule and not to reduce the social rights of citizens. Perhaps another word, two on those articles, because a broader debate is allowed, is that the amendment to Article 3 is open to the Fiscal Council. I would like this fiscal world to be composed of experts, individuals with rich experience, rich knowledge, kilometres in this area, moral, professional and otherwise indisputable, who are particularly aware of their responsibilities and will be able to make decisions. That's essential. It is also essential that they reach the greatest possible consensus in terms of their election to this position by a two-thirds majority, which I think is an important moment. It may be a little bit, I will not say a frightening, seemingly large number of EUR 300,000 on an annual basis for the functioning of this world, but I believe that this is the upper limit of the need for the functioning of the fiscal world to prove that less resources are needed in the end. But if the effect of the law is such that it has positive effects on citizens and citizens, which is an essential point, we will also survive it. We also adopt a law that has two or three times more effects, and we move on and adopt it. There was a case like this yesterday. Maybe that's all. Desus was mentioned several times. He was present when the constitution was changing, and he was present when the fiscal rule law was not passed for the first time. Last but not least, we were in this composition, including in this mandate, when we did not adopt the fiscal rule law for the second time. But the reasons were very principled. The first was that we assessed both draft laws as being too restrictive, too risky to reduce or restrict the social rights of individuals, households and pensioners. At the same time, we have seen the inability to form, to create a reserve demographic fund, which, as you know, is one of the main or more important points, has also been laid down in a coalition contract, a coalition agreement which my client has been working for some time and I believe that we will also achieve the establishment and operation of this fund by the end of the year. Finally, the Minister, if I understand correctly the last interview we had with him, is increasingly favored, as we have all seen together that this is still necessary for the sustainability of the pension fund and for the smooth payment of long-term pensions. These were the principled reasons, and I once again point out why Desus was not present when it came to adopting a fiscal rule, or opposed it. This time, of course, we sincerely hope that in the individual articles, we have brought in the individual provisions of the law what will allow for the sustainability of public finances, I speak in the medium term, but at the same time not the most vulnerable groups, i.e. individuals and households who already live on the edge of the existential minimum. I sincerely wish that this law will be passed, that we have not missed anything between the lines, which could be negative for the future of this country, of course in the hope that when we talk about over- and sub-potential growth, of course, in the hope that those other sub-potential growth will not be stable in the growth of gross social product. Of course, it is necessary to view this law as one final whole, but the fiscal rule law is only one, essential, I will not say that it is crucial, but among the more important financial laws that we are adopting. It needs to be seen in the context of all other financial laws, fiscal policies, other segments, including economies, which will have a comprehensive financial and economic environment in that country and allow the conditions for economic growth to be met, which is, of course, a priority, for public finances to deteriorate over the medium term and for the future to reduce our public debt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Minister of Finance Dr. Marble! In his discussion, our colleague Luka Mesec invited us to the library to read an economic theory, which of course is commendable, but I regret that he has such a tactic that I remembered as a former JLA member when we had to serve JLA, that we were dealing with a tactic that was called "hit and run" in the Slovenian translation that means "hit and run". But it's his freedom. And I invite him, very kind and honest, to some Slovenian company. We have a lot of them. New Slovenia goes on visits, we visit businesses, we have very good companies, if there were only a little less state bureaucracy and so on, it would be even more blooming to see colleague Luka from within where the new value is actually created, or I will tell you from home where the money is made – in companies money is made. Well, let's leave this opening. Colleagues and colleagues! New Slovenia is committed to respecting treaties, whatever they are. If they are international, of course, this respect must also be enforced. And here I am referring to the Treaty signed by the representatives of the States of the 25 member states of the European Union on 2 March 2012. On behalf of the Slovenian country, Mr Janez Janša, then Prime Minister. This is a Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in the Economic and Monetary Union between the 25 Member States of the European Union or less, as we say in this Treaty, a Treaty on the Fiscal Pact, which, I believe, was ratified by the National Assembly in April 2012, before which the Committee on Foreign Policy practically without discussion and without a vote against. This contract, colleagues and colleagues, is in fact the basis of the content that we are discussing today. No one read it between us, and I didn't read it consistently. But in five lines, what is the purpose of this contract? The aim of the Treaty is to strengthen the economic pillar of the Economic and Monetary Union with a set of rules to strengthen budgetary discipline, by fiscal strengthening, strengthening economic policy coordination and improving the governance of the euro area, while at the same time supporting the objectives of ensuring sustainable growth in employment, competitiveness and social cohesion. What is wrong with this treaty, the one that is opposed to the treaty and, consequently, today's implementing law, the fiscal rule law? That's what we need. That's what we need. We have the European Union as a fundamental value and political framework for ensuring prosperity and fundamental rights. We have a monetary union, we have a common European currency called the euro, we have a banking union to prevent new and new banking crises, which were one of the main reasons for the crisis in Europe. We are talking about the Energy Union and we will probably need a fiscal union in the future. When I spoke about the purpose of this fiscal pact treaty, the fiscal pact, I would like to add here that I am a sharp critic of all those who have made this contract fun and somehow mislead the Slovenian public with the fact that this treaty is the end of the social state. That's crazy. I'm sorry. And I don't agree to this kind of deception and this kind of dyeing, by the way, of Slovenian taxpayers. I'm not! This is what we need, the treaty that we ratified in the National Assembly, which has long since adopted the amendment to the Constitution, Article 148, and on the basis of which I hope today that there will be so much common sense, we will also adopt a fiscal rule law. We in New Slovenia claim that entrepreneurship and savings through Benjamin Franklin are two necessary conditions for the development of society, for prosperity. And from here also comes our conservative attitude towards public finances and the conservative positions we are advocating regarding public finances. And maybe now that we're at Article 3 and we're talking about the formula. We have European regulations, which in fact require States parties to the fiscal pact to write numerical fiscal rules in their legislation, this is the formula. There is a lack of word definition of fiscal rule, a formula is needed. Why? Since mathematical science is probably more exact than legal science, don't let the lawyers hold it against me. I defended myself in the beginning the Swiss formula. Why? Because it works because it simply works in practice. However, it was because of what I said earlier that some entertainment was created in Slovenia before the Swiss formula that it was the end of the social state – quite the opposite. That is also why I understand, and I have been in politics for so long, that some compromise solutions need to be sought. When we were visiting the CDU as a member group in Germany, we were also at the German finance ministry and we were talking to another man from the German finance ministry, in fact, we were not talking about the formula because he didn't agree to it. He said the main thing is that we have something that "you'll have some kind of Schuldenbremse." When we mentioned there that our experts and we too have read the opinions of the author Schuldenbremse in Germany, this is Mr Lars Feld, who is very well known by the professional public in Slovenia, I know for sure Mr. Minister, I know that he knows him, we have found that it is crucial, in fact, that as soon as possible, and in general before the adoption of the budget for 2016 and 2017, we adopt the fiscal rule law. With regard to the comparison between the formula that is now written in the updated proposal of the Fiscal Rule Act and between the Swiss formula, it is necessary to say the following: this is what scientists have found, something I have also calculated, because the formulas are close to me, and the fact is that the difference between the Swiss formula and this formula that we have in this bill is minimal, and if you want, I have calculated it myself, the elasticity of the function, I will not now tire with mathematical theory. If we compare the elasticity of expenditure on the production of the gaps in the use of both formulas, which is a more appropriate criterion for determining the response of fiscal policy to the business cycle, such as the criterion of cost elasticity on GDP, we should rediscover approximately the same elasticity of the Swiss formula and the government proposal for inequality. I myself went to calculate the elasticity of the function and came to this conclusion, so that I have a calm conscience concerning Article 3 and the formula to confirm it and, of course, I will also confirm today's fiscal rule law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u75	Thank you. Procedurally, Mr. Miha Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u76	Thank you, Madam President. I have a procedural proposal for you that may even limit it to a request. But look, from the very beginning of this debate on fiscal rules, the regime's parties are coming together and with a lot of anger at us in the United Left. We are at the height of a wide range of measurements and discredits about demagogism, about populism, and things are going on for a substantial longer time. My proposal, my request, is just to protect our integrity in those truly most exceptional cases, so that the debate can take place in some normal and constructive tone and we prefer to talk about content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u77	Thank you. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. If we give this point a content address according to what's going on, we should have the address Super-Swiss. Superstition was such a beautiful Balkan expression for all the Southostalgics that filled you with this hall, which means not only to play something, but to make you feel even smarter than the others when you did it. In this case, what's going on here today is exactly what it is. The fiscal rule story began with an international treaty, which was adopted in this Parliament in 2012 without a single vote against, virtually in full agreement. No one in the coalition wants to remember this anymore. It then continued with constitutional changes, to which it was a very long and hard bargaining road, which it bore with an extremely high level of consensus. The fiscal rule was introduced into the Constitution by 78 votes to none, with only a few votes against. I personally think that this is the way this country should make key foreign policy decisions, internal policy decisions and, above all, fundamental economic development decisions. Just like the one in front of us today. Unfortunately, at this point, when we are at the point where that original collective will — consent passes into an operational law — suddenly this consensus runs out. There was no longer the will to negotiate, and now we are warning that things are not good. Differences can be said as complex as colleagues Horvat. I'm sure everyone who was watching us was switching channels that moment. And the problem is, in practice, ordinary people will understand only when they see the consequences. So let me make this simple. We have changed the Constitution with a high degree of consensus. We knew exactly what we agreed on for each sentence in the constitutional law itself and in the implementing law that we negotiated at the same time. For each sentence we reached agreement, for each sentence we knew what it meant. And whatever goes away from this, is swindling, it's out-of-the-boxing. And that's unfortunately what we're witnessing today. You know exactly that if we were to adopt a law today that was fully in line with the constitutional will of us as the founder of this House, then we should use the formula that we offer and vote for our amendment. I'll do it myself, of course, because I keep my word. But the rest of you just went to what, if, we're going to do a little bit of this – what did it say in the Balkans? Expansion, expansion. And make some stretching formulation that can in practice mean one or not quite so much one, but when it comes to money and saving and for those unloving measures, it usually means that this is over very quickly. And that's really what this is about. Either the fuses are effective or not effective. And it's not a social issue. Those of you who say that start a phenomenal demagogy. What is the most stable source of social justice, social justice, if you want, strength, security, what everyone wants? This is a good job, a stable job with a high added value, for which an individual receives a proper fair payment. It's something that gives him security personally, his family and everyone else. And to that end, everything else should be subordinated. The fact that a country can invariably take money and share it as a righteous person and thus replace what it is unable to create is an environment in which many good, quality jobs with high added value would be created, is a Greek entity that then ends up exactly as it did in Greece at the moment Cyprus just sent a proposal for some reforms that are even worse now than the ones originally requested by the troika. That's how bullshit ends, when people do it, and they start demagogy. While people are still standing in rows in front of ATMs, they fall in the hot sun, waiting for their poor pension, as previously presented. This is socialism in practice. That's our problem. Earlier, someone very optimistically said that his daughter had received 14,000 euro minus her debt in her arms when she was born. But he made a mistake. Sixteen thousand euros already. This is so if I have transition leftists in charge of several mandates in a row. Then the debt increases so much that he takes his breath. Why am I stressing this? Because if some of you have already mentioned Greece, ladies and gentlemen in the introduction, you have overlooked one important point. By some criteria, let's say, according to the criteria of the rate of public debt growth, the one behind which the taxpayers have been standing, in the last few years, there since 2009, Slovenia is worse than Greece, according to the origin of both. Of course, Greek debt is significantly higher, but it has also been on the rise for a substantial period of time and under different circumstances. But what we have is a disaster. Two governments in transition left 20 billion euros through the window. And today every 4-member family is in charge of about 65,000 euros. That's as much as they had one little house, and they came into the transition left, and they lit it up, and the bulldozers knocked it down, and now they're standing in the hot sun, and they don't know what to do. But they're gonna have to pay for this house. This is the state in which Slovenian children are now born. And this situation needs to be brought to an end, otherwise it will end not only where Greece is, but at such a rate the public debt will end much worse. It doesn't have to be. We had a fantastic advantage over all the other countries of the Eastern bloc. We were twice better if you want, under many economic criteria than Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Estonia, Latvia. And you will not believe, on the last scale of the prosperity of people, real purchasing power are before us Estonia, Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and so on and so on. We've all been overrun. This is so if we continue to have that socialist reflection on power, the transition left, as it is called. Then the effect is like that, and it has to be limited. Now it's a question of whether you do it in a correct and effective way and based on the consensus that you once reached when you wrote this rule into the constitution, or you're going to outsmart those who think honestly and you're going to do something else. But you know, with this, say this Balkan approach, you don't solve anything, because in the end, any such move comes back like a boomerang. Let me tell you another example of how this works in practice for a little while longer. On one occasion, Gorenska was three times more developed than neighbouring Austria. Until World War II. Today, Austria is three times more developed than Gorenska. In the meantime, it's called socialism. That's right, ladies and gentlemen, if you spend more than you create, and you live in a fantasy of how smart and good you are. And that's why we need to accept our amendment, because it's a responsibility, a responsibility to go ahead. Without this, it will continue to take place in debt, to some work it impresses false prosperity without a real basis on quality entrepreneurship of quality jobs and with high added value. But it's a run on short tracks that end sooner or later. But Slovenia deserves and has all the resources to achieve this. Not only would it be as good as Austria, but with all the responsibility I claim that Slovenia could be better than Austria. It is only necessary to set a framework in which entrepreneurs will stay here and new investors will come to believe that they have legal protection, legal security and a country that will not be so devoured or cost-effective to harm them. One of the tools for this is also a fiscal rule, which was therefore based on that agreement in 2012, when no one, ladies and gentlemen, was against, today it is necessary to adopt, because that international treaty binds the state of Slovenia. Whoever doesn't know this, I can't help it, but it also binds him to it, because ignorance of the law hurts.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mrs. Nada Brinovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u80	Madam President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall! Unlike my colleagues of the predecessors, I will not go back so far in history in my debate and will not touch on the events in Latvia, America and Greece, but will focus more on the fiscal rule and on our amendments that we have tabled in my debate. We have been talking about the fiscal rule law, as has already been said several times today, since 2012, when the National Assembly has made a voiceless commitment to include this fiscal rule in our legal order, it is said in the Constitution. This happened in 2013. The very way and time frame should be determined by the implementing act we have here today, six months after the amendment of the Constitution. So this should have happened in 2013. That didn't happen. All that has happened during this transitional period is that we still have an additional debt of 3.5 billion in 2014, and in 2014, I apologize, both in 2014, first for 3.5 billion and then for another billion. Slovenia is also the only Member at this time, which, despite its commitments, has not yet adopted this fiscal rule, as we have already heard from the distinguished Minister today, and in view of the great delay in adopting this implementing act, we are also just before the European Commission's action before the European Court of Justice. The Court may, on account of this delay, grant us a fine for a violation within 500 days' delay. And this penalty could amount to millions of euros. And this is at this point in time, given our deficit and our last debt, what we would need at this point. But according to the prognosis, this law is likely to be confirmed today that this fine will not also occur. If we go to the law enforcement proposal now. The bill provides for a transitional period for the gradual correction of the structural deficit, which provides for a reduction of the deficit of 0.5 % of GDP per year. This alignment is expected to be there around 2020. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have proposed to include in the law the so-called Swiss formula, which has been tested, I stress, tested in other EU Member States, on how to implement the principle of medium-term balance with the amendment. The Swiss formula provides for stricter spending at the time of economic growth, especially when economic growth is above average. It is thus necessary to save money when you have something, in order to reduce your debt. At the same time, this formula also ensures greater and faster fiscal policy response to the current situation. However, the government concept is not tested with two inequalities. Since it is untested, the questionable effects or results that this equation could bring in practice are questionable. I am asking why it is necessary to detect some warm water, but if we already have a tested formula that is essentially used by almost all EU Member States. I would now like to stop now under Article 12 or circumstances in which medium-term balance can be derogated. In the first paragraph, point 2 states that medium-term balance may be waived in the event of an unusual event which cannot be affected and has significant implications for the financial situation of the State sector. Unusual events in our view are not sufficiently defined. I already said that when I first read it, it could be a lot of things. It could be a patching of a bank hole again, it could be some organization of Olympic games, some kind of concert. So if these unusual events aren't defined enough, they could be anything. Of course, it's an excuse for every government or government in the world. An unusual event may occur immediately after the adoption of this law. The figures show that it was a deficit for the first quarter of this year of 4,7 % of GDP. And that information is, I can say, worryingly. It's important for Slovenia to get this law. But this law must have a clearly defined way, criteria and also circumstances, that we will once and for all reach these balanced public finances and a balanced budget, which we have been talking about for so long. The bill that we have before us today, however, is based on untested inequality and unconcerned circumstances, and I am therefore very afraid that the adoption of such an act will have negative consequences for public consumption, resulting in economic growth, social and, of course, the well-being of all of us citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! When I listen to this debate on this amendment by the Slovenian Democratic Party, I cannot go beyond two claims, two theses that have appeared in connection with this article either here in the National Assembly, in the debate of Members, or when support has been given to the solution proposed by the Government. My colleague Prikl said that our formula for fiscal law is too harsh. New Slovenia, however, justified its support for this law by proposing a stronger formula by government law than the Swiss formula. Given that the Minister is here, I would like to make it clear whether he holds one claim or holds another. They are both diametrically opposed to those who support the government's proposal for fiscal law. It's diametrically opposite. In view of the fact that before the next round of time-sharing, I would like to ask the Minister to explain which of the claims he holds. One was spoken by Mr Prikl and the other by Mrs Ludmila Novak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Would you like to answer? I give my word to Dr. Dusan Marble.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u84	Thank you very much. I will start with this last question, and then I will go to some other questions that have opened up in this discussion. You're both right. This difference between both formulas, one is inequality, the other is formula. The difference is that I will call it the EU-equality, because this equation or inequality that we are using here is essentially an inequality that is written down by the Stability and Growth Pact. This EU inequality allows you to have more deficits in bad times than the Swiss formula allows. So, larger fiscal stimuli. Of course, this means that Mr Prikl was right when he said that the Swiss formula was too sharp. But, of course, this has its own punishment. The penalty, however, is when the economy is overheated, and then it is necessary to save more sharply in order to bring in domestically, which is more spent in times of crisis. So you're both actually right. There is also a difference between the two approaches. Then, if I may, in speaking, answer some other questions that have been raised. We're gone, but that's what Mr. Shircelj pointed out. The first thing I would say is, in relation to this amendment, that we understand what is the difference between this so-called Swiss formula and EU inequality. We tried, I really wanted to be as broad a consensus as possible, so we tried to find a compromise with the SDS as possible on what was on the EU level and what was essentially the original rule. In fact, it is true that this EU rule has, I would say, a little less stable this equation, which is why we have introduced into this equation a change which, as Mr Horvat said, has brought the smoothness of these two equations, equations and inequalities closer in essence. We actually did that. This claim is that there is no significant difference in normal conditions and over-cycles. The difference is mainly when there is a crisis and when there is essentially a balloon situation. At that time, these two approaches differ. I keep stressing what the problem is if we go to the Swiss formula. We have European rules, European methodology. These European rules and this European methodology are what is enshrined in this inequality. It is true, you are right, Madam President, that some countries have also written the Swiss formula. We had a meeting of EU finance ministers in Riga, this is ECOFIN. And we presented the experience. They've introduced themselves. I had nothing to show for it because we haven't accepted it yet. But they have presented their experience in implementing the fiscal rule. The key problem that arose for those who did not have the EU rules in their words or in the formula was that when they calculated according to their rules, they did not comply with EU rules, but they did not comply with EU rules. And they specifically highlighted this, and they said they would have to adjust it, because it's simply a significant difference. That is why it is best, and this has also been our approach to enrolling EU rules in fiscal law. Even if they change, they automatically change the way in which the maximum expenditure is calculated. Then I would like to stress in particular. We went, Mr. Shircelj, to calculate what you said, and I'm afraid you were wrong about the calculation because we don't get 180 million, but we're going to get 9 million. And growth needs to be taken into account. And if you take that growth into account, then because this R in the formula changes, because of the higher growth, it's even less than 9 million. So, we don't know that we were wrong. I think the three of us here were watching that we didn't. But that might be a good idea to double-check. This was what you remember when you said, if economic growth increases or decreases relatively little. And then let's say from the point of view of how this effect would be 0.1% increase or decrease in growth. For example, in this transitional period, when, in fact, we have to reduce the structural deficit by 0.5% of GDP, in this period, it would essentially have an impact, if we have an increase in projected economic growth by 0.1% of the point, and in this period it would have an impact on the actual increase or reduction of the public financial deficit, that would be 0.02% of GDP. So that would be a relatively small effect. Which would not essentially affect expenditure, because the basic logic of structural deficit is to imagine long-term economic growth increasing gross domestic product, and that is what a potential product is when you swing around it, but it is a structural swing that does not affect expenditure. When you're doing well, you can't increase spending any more, that structural deficit is nothing, and when you're doing bad, you don't have to cut spending, you don't have to pay back in that period, you don't cut spending, and you're essentially just neutralizing this structural deficit. It's this so-called automatic stabilizer. This impact is also minimal on the transitional period. However, when we look at the period after 2020, there is virtually no impact in these normal situations. However, if there was a very large decline in GDP, then the question is whether we are not in exceptional circumstances. That would be my answer. If I've made a mistake, please correct me. Then the question, which opened for the first time and when we discussed it, was repeatedly mentioned whether it is now in accordance with or is such a law as is now envisaged here, in accordance with the Constitution or not. While this is not directly linked, but only indirectly to this amendment, we have received the opinion of two constitutional lawyers that this is not inconsistent with the Constitution and then all of these issues for 2015, because we follow these European regulations and the deficit falls below 3% in 2015, it is the first trigger, as they say, and we are in line with European rules and then the Constitution. Further, it is very clear in the Constitution that in this fiscal rule law we set out a timetable and a timetable for the implementation of the principle referred to in the second paragraph of this Article. And since we are in line with the fiscal rule law, and this has established a timetable and a way of adapting to this medium-term balance, the structural deficit is nothing, according to lawyers, this is now in line with the Constitution. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Would you like to discuss it? It's a replica. Here you go, Mr. Shircel.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Minister for your answer. However, we are somewhat clear on this financial impact issue. I said that in the period when the gross social product is reduced, for example by 0.5%, the real rate of growth is 0.5 and then it is reduced to 0.4, which means for 0.1% of the point that in this case, according to your formula, it is necessary to calculate or redefine the expenditure of the state budget, which is then to fall by 0.5 gross of the social product. These are the calculations we actually got. Even if it decreases by 0.2%, 0.5%. And then when it comes to 0.5, then your formula starts to work normally, that if it falls by 0.6% of the gross social product, the expenditure also decreases by 0.6%. So we have this area between 0.5% of the gross social product and 0% of the gross social product when your formula does not work or works in such a way that at that point the expenditure has to be reduced by more. And if GDP falls by 0.1%, then expenditure must fall by 0.5% of the gross social product. Gross social product is 35 billion. One percent of 35 billion is 350 million, half percent is 175 million. And that's how I talked about 180 million. This is a very simple calculation. I think everyone understands why it is. If you're going to put into your formulas and into your analysis and into your computers economic growth, that's acceptable, and the other variable is going to go on like that, look, I believe, Minister, that they will get the results you want and what variables you'll put in your computer. However, a simple calculation suggests that GDP will fall by 0.1%, and in this case expenditure will fall by 0.5% of GDP. Look, these are actually calculations that they did at the Faculty of Economics. I've already said, I'm not going to talk here about the people they made, we both know them, and it shows the lack of this formula or not, I'm sorry, inequality. When you talk about European inequalities and that this is European and so on. Look, I don't know that Europe would have simplified two inequalities, as we do. Everyone has a specificity in the formula, something special and so on. Nor do I know that Europe would prescribe some inequalities to calculate the fiscal rule. If they did, I'd be wondering where it actually exists. Each country has a slightly different state, and each country, after all, also this Treaty, which we have signed, allows countries to actually find their own way. I agree here. The second is whether this is a European rule in accordance with the Constitution. That you have asked two constitutional lawyers, me on the basis that the National Assembly has requested and the Mandate- voluntary Commission, a commission led by Mr Horvath, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u87	Mr. Shircelj [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u88	With regard to Mr Janš's mandate, six constitutional lawyers – see, I am not satisfied. [[…]] The opinion of the constitutional lawyers, as far as you have them, will have as many opinions as two. Depends on how much you pay them and what they want. So, if you'll excuse me, most constitutional lawyers might be an exception. That's the answer, my replica of what you actually said, and I thank the president for giving me a minute and 20 seconds more.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Ange Logar. Looks like this device really doesn't work.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u90	Here, it's working.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u91	Bo, great.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Now in Slovenia we have several times witnessed a policy that would not. All solutions point in some direction, but they do not have some finalisation, some conclusion that would bring what we all want. The bees are not brave enough, either intentionally let go of some segment, either instead of setting up another mathematical operation, it's bigger, it's smaller. Imagine a country that, because of, I don't know, the desire to spend too much, because of responsible policies, asks its citizens whether they are willing to accept some particularly restrictive mathematical legality so that no government will spend more than it creates in the future. And put this question to the referendum and then ask yourself how many people will support it. Say, do it in Greece. The result, I think it's more or less clear. Do it in Slovenia. I am afraid that because of some demagogic discussions, the indicator would also be more receptive to the value below 50%. Do it in Switzerland and you'll get an interesting result. The Swiss did so in 2001 at the referendum. The formula with the equation, i.e. a very specific formula, was placed on their referendum. Do you know how many Swiss have supported this reform or this constitution? Eighty-five percent! In 2003, this formula began to be used, it was enshrined in the Constitution, and has since been followed by some countries. Do you know how much Switzerland owes? Under 20% of GDP. Where's Slovenia? At more than 80 %. Slovenians would very much like to live the life of Swiss, have his salary, ski there, also probably buy a vineyard, but they would not have an exact formula in the constitution and in the implementing constitutional law or rule. Why? Because he's too tight on public finances. The case of Slovakia. In 2011, he was introduced into the Constitution. There is also a very simple matter. When public debt reaches 53% of GDP, the mechanism is automatically activated and wages are frozen. Automated. If this debt reaches 55% of GDP, public expenditure will automatically be reduced by 3%. If it exceeds 57%, the government prepares a balanced budget, spending as much as revenue. And let the radical left do so, and let another party jump to heaven. It's a flat budget. Why? So that the country has harmonised public finances. Look at their movement, after the adoption of this rule, the budget has begun to level and the public debt has been reduced. It's very easy to say, look, the US doesn't have a golden fiscal rule, so their GDP is above the pre-crisis rates. And let those who say that also read a little literature, not just what they write at some institute. The US also has a slightly different "pay-as-you-go" rule since 2010. But he does have it because of the rise in public debt, which, as we know, is pretty high. But it is true that Russia does not have this rule. But let's see what the economic situation is like in Russia. And let's see what the economic situation is like in Russia. And let's look at the countries that introduced this fiscal rule, how their debt moved. When we talk about our proposal for a Swiss formula, it is not because we would like to, I don't know, complicate or put the government ahead of an extremely difficult task. No, no, no. We want to give the government an instrument that has proved to work in countries. Why change something with a two-thirds majority, if even coalition Members call themselves, look, because I don't know exactly well, I don't know what it will be like, but I trust, if it doesn't, then I'll have to hit the table. If we have a Swiss formula that's proven to be working, and obviously needs to be, I don't know why, to invent something new, so that maybe it won't work or because in Article 12, it says when we can avoid these rules. The second paragraph, "the emergence and cessation of circumstances, which thus softens or excludes the functioning of the mechanism, shall be determined by the Government after obtaining the assessment of the fiscal world". Now go to Germany, and you will see that the procedure there is fundamentally different, that there are no two reasons as stated in this Article 12 but only speaks in the event of an unusual event which cannot be affected, and has an impact on public finances, while the government is committed to coming before the state assembly with a so-called depreciation plan and is confirmed by the State Assembly or Parliament by an absolute majority. Also some kind of mechanism that works. But no, we would, but we wouldn't, at first glance, accept some quasi Swiss formula, but we wouldn't want it to be so binding. We know if something's not binding, then we're going a little bit slower or a little faster. Let us look at the binding provisions of the Constitution when we are two or three years late. And then those who owe the country the most in one year of government preach about how to impose a formula or not. To the conclusion. Mr Prikl earlier said that this Swiss formula was too restrictive, too restrictive. Then the Minister of Finance told us that during the period of the junction, that when we have economic growth, this formula proposed by the government will in fact be restrictive. At the time of economic growth, this supplement, which the state can spend, is smaller or more restrictive. That's what the minister said. Now look, we're in the economic growth phase. We've been through a phase of crisis. And now you are adopting a law that is more restrictive during the economic growth phase. When you, Desus, have to take the words back after coordination, when the SD will have to take back the words on raising social transfers, because this restriction will be in the implementing law. However, if we collected the Swiss formula, these scissors would be larger, and this elevation could be more easily adapted to the Swiss formula. That is why I am returning to Mr Širtzl's opening contribution, and I am as convincing for the good of Slovenia, for the good of transparency and for the best possible benefit of this start of economic growth, support our amendment, the Swiss formula and the law will meet your needs, you will not have to doubt, because you have clear examples that the law works. And even that broad support will be achieved when we all support this law, even if that's why we don't get any jobs abroad, for example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Primož Hainz has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u94	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The debate went very wide, so I cannot help but make three comments myself to a debate that is not very mathematically, economically correct, but that is one of my observations. First of all, I have to say that today we all know what needs to be done and what doesn't need to be done. But one of them, when they were in power, was pushing an economic balloon, a credit balloon, and then it broke. Others then say that it is necessary to watch how money works, to spend as much as you deserve, and to be in debt for billions at that time. Thirdly, we are sent to Germany, which is a great example. I have to remember everything as a historian. In the 19th century, Germany doubled its debt, but never returned its loans. So I must say that in this debate we should be a little focused only on this specific law and case, and it would be less what we can even argue. But I am one of those, Mr Logar, who I believe to the Minister that at this moment, the reality of this moment is such that this fiscal law must be supported as it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u96	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A nice greeting to all the fellow students and colleagues in the hall, as well as to all who attend today’s session! I welcome the invitation of colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party, who in some ways are an enthusiastic advocate of a fiscal rule, with the emphasis on the Swiss formula. But I would still use it to invite you again, to decide today and to support this fiscal rule. I must say that even in our parliamentary group, in our party, we were not the most excited about this fiscal rule at first, but we are assessing simply and simply that we are probably not doing without it. Of course, we would if we followed the CAP. Every Slovenian farmer or farmer I know a little bit better, or the family of two pensioners who have an average Slovenian pension, knows easily and simply that they can spend as much as they have income. And if this formula were to be taken into account by all the government's past, we wouldn't be in trouble the way we are. This fiscal rule and this formula, which is written in marriage, would be very good in the years of fat cows. So now is the time when we're a little late with this formula. We should probably have it right after 2004, or somewhere around here. I must say, within the coalition, we have very much coordinated the fiscal rule. I'm referring here to the parliamentary group I belong to. But we also coordinated with the government. We have probably been very fluent on many occasions to the Minister and the Ministry, because we are well aware that the social situation of our citizens and citizens should not be weakened. Here we think mainly of those who are actually almost already on the social side. These are low-retirement pensioners. They're minimum wage workers. These are those who receive social transfers and some others who actually live on the edge. They must not bear the consequences of mistakes made by governments. This fiscal rule is not so much for citizens and citizens, but for the government that has big eyes when it comes to power. With these big eyes, he sees the world a little differently than ordinary citizens and citizens. I would also like to point out here that we did not support the proposal prepared by the Slovenian Democratic Party on 15 December last year, in particular because of a provision that practically prevents the establishment of a demographic reserve fund. The provision has also prevented the transfer of EUR 50 million from the PSI Fund for the coordination of pensions and has also prevented the transfer of 10% of the purchase of state property. That's why we didn't back it up. It is crucial for us that the real demographic fund is set up and guaranteed in the future for future generations of adequate pensions. We are aware, however, that we will have to, even though we have never been too many advocates of pension reforms, because today someone in the debate said that in the past, even in the party that I belong to, we did not support the pension reform that Dr. Svetlik prepared in Desus. It is true that we did not support it because, according to our assessment, it was bad, because the reform was simply somehow oriented in 20 years ahead. Now, dear colleagues, tell me who that fortune teller is, that she'll know what's going to happen in 20 years. Later came some new pension reform, which I must say, even though it was then Minister Visjak, that it was acceptable and good for us because it reached into a near future. And, of course, we have been happy to support this reform. However, we will not object if we start discussing a new pension reform in a few years, because we know what demographic indicators are. And that's how we have to look at things. Not for a long time. That's what only those who know how to dress can do. If I were to say something more concrete, what is actually written in this law. Revenue and expenditure in the country's budget must be balanced in the medium term and without debt. Or the revenue must go beyond the expenditure. This principle may only be temporarily derogated from in exceptional circumstances for the State. Why did I point that out? In particular, because the National Assembly adopts budgets each year and has to decide which matter it will actually implement and which one it will not, in some way, balance the budget. Somehow we were satisfied with this conclusion in our Group of Members, because we find that, in fact today, and even in the future, there will probably not be any group of Members who would hope to say that pensioners will not receive 10th, 11th or 12th pensions, or that they will not receive the poorest social transfers, because then the State Assembly would probably be able to watch from Šubičeva on the street and from Tomšič on this side from outside.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich. Replica, mag. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u98	Thank you. See, we meet again and again with the statement of the type of discourse that Mr Cwickel introduced in this House. It has now been said again that we should have this formula from 2004 onwards, but in practice, you know, it is. By 2008, this country had a very low level of indebtedness, moving up to 7 or 8 billion, all the time since independence, with the whole Yugoslav debt going on. Speaking of fiscal rules, this covers only public finances. And even when we talk about debt, it makes sense to talk about the debt that taxpayers owe us. So it's a public debt. Public debt, as it was said, was around 8 billion by then. After that, Mr Pahor's Transitional Left Government began its work. But what did they do? That's when the scissors broke open. When they themselves announced a reduction in income, they increased spending by almost a billion after that first rebalancing. And that's when this joyous journey started to hell with some sirtaki behind it. As they are now playing it from 2009 to today. That's why 20 billion debt has been raised. One debt then settled with another, with a third and today, there is no more room for manoeuvre, because interest is already burning that much. To stop this process, a fiscal rule must be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mag. Dushan Gerbich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u100	Thank you for your words, Madam Vice President, but the Minister is not. I'd still like to say hi. A colleague and a colleague of his, ambassadors and messengers, a very good greeting! I am aware that somehow my debate will be a demonstration of the facts already known and the words spoken on the fiscal rule. However, due to the importance of the matter itself for the Republic of Slovenia, I believe that the abolition of the current unconstitutional situation may even require this. We are facing reality in our country, that we have been in fiscal imbalances for a number of years, and this actually reveals shortcomings in the planning and implementation of public financial policy. A sentence that we have heard many times in recent years, even in recent weeks. I am convinced that the bill before us follows the substance of the rejected proposal, which was tabled well six months ago by the opposition SDS party. However, today's bill has its content adapted to today's situation in the country of the Republic of Slovenia where we are. The next, which is very important, is the commitment of any government to manage a public financial policy that will not be to the detriment of the State. And what's important and what's already been said a few times today is that it follows the point, that the state can only spend as much as it can create. For reasons of importance, I will repeat once again what I think is really the most important topic today, namely the removal of the unconstitutional state in which we are in relation to the matter. As a member of the coalition, I allow myself to address all those Members and Members, whether they are present in the Chamber or not, who are in a dilemma to support or not to support the proposed law called the Fiscal Rule Act. What is it that has not been said many times in these days and perhaps convinces such Members? First of all, the fact that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which incorporated this matter in Article 148, has changed in May 2013. I personally believe that a lot of activity was put in place at the time, knowing that the Republic of Slovenia is in urgent need of this activity. Here I would like to point out that all those Members who voted in favour of this amendment have indeed been statescapable. At the same time, the Republic of Slovenia is one of the few countries which is late for the adoption of this legislation. We have also heard this many times in the last days and today. And what does that mean? Such a matter should be settled by November 2013. Today we are in July 2015. That means we're way behind schedule. Next. The adoption of the Fiscal Rule Act has a strong message value of the National Assembly as the legislative branch of power for citizens and citizens, that the time has come for the executive branch of the Authority, says the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is beginning to manage the country's finances extremely responsible and economically. This is what has been mentioned several times: the country can spend and consume only as much as it can create. Furthermore, the adoption of this law also has a clear and unequivocal message to foreign countries; here I am thinking, in particular, of the European institutions, especially the International Monetary Fund, that the Republic of Slovenia is a credible country to regulate its finances in a way that wishes to come with public finances to a level comparable to the most responsible and financially stable countries of the European Union. I also believe that by adopting this law, it can rightly be expected that the Republic of Slovenia's credit ratings will improve and, consequently, constitute a more favourable money source for our country. I think we are very united here, that the Republic of Slovenia needs this as well. Furthermore, I believe that, as I mentioned earlier, all Members were very statesmen when they adopted an amendment to the Constitution to Article 148 in 2013. I also believe that they were aware of the importance of the fiscal rule for citizens and citizens and of the precautionary principle of pursuing budgetary discipline and, in parallel, the principle of medium-term balance. However, there was not much talk in these days, but I think it is important. The Chamber of Commerce, according to the statements of the judge, adopts and also advocates the fiscal rule law because it considers it closely linked to the provision of financial sovereignty of the State. It would also be good for Members to be aware of the voice of the economy and, in fact, to take it into account. Let me finish. Ladies and gentlemen, I refer to your state-of-the-art and that it is in the interest of citizens and citizens to adopt a fiscal rule law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u101	Thank you very much. More debate? Please sign up. Mr. Ivan Škodnik has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u102	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! Today I have been in this hall for a very long time, especially since this area is something special. I'm not going to say that finances aren't exactly my field, but in my profession, I've been through this a lot in my life. However, I would also like to tell those who may be outside listening to us outside this Chamber in some simple way, how I actually understood this when he first came to our Group of Members to explain this to us, Mr Minister. At that time, I remembered those words from childhood, I came from a peasant family, and I could say today that we sometimes also follow a logic that's very important, that's agricultural logic. You could also say some farm rule today when we're talking about all the possible formulas, or a farm formula that's unmistakable. I would explain this fiscal rule in three points. For the first time, as I've remembered, I'm kind of thinking that it's logical, like we all think that you can spend as much as you can create. And you don't owe yourself. Even less so, we owe this to future generations. Look, there's a lot of people who can take credit today. Even a loan to go to sea on vacation. But when he comes home from vacation, he's gonna start studying that he's gonna have to come back sometime. We can get very rich cars for leasing. But it's gonna have to come back sometime. I remember childhood, friends who lived in Germany visited us, it must have been 45 years ago, they lived here in Slovenia, they went abroad, they set up a company, and this gentleman, I remember, I was under 15 years old, he said to my father, "After 30 years of entrepreneurship we go to sea for the first time." I remember that very well. And I kind of put that in my memory and associate it with this fiscal law. Another time. Fiscal rule limits any government in the field of expenditure, limits political appetites after spending. Third time. The fiscal law establishes an independent institution called the Fiscal Council, which warns politicians about the trap of spending. Today, I will act in a state-of-the-art manner and vote in favour of fiscal law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u104	Thank you so much for saying that. We always have to fix, supplement or change what works abroad. And in fact, there is no solution in the National Assembly or that we get so that we don't make a little improvement, so that it doesn't work in practice. A typical example of this is what is proposed by the implementing law on fiscal rules. If at that time we agreed with a large majority of us in the National Assembly that this principle of public finances balance can be derogated from only exceptionally, meaning that exceptions must be set in a specific part and not only with the formula, the Minister proposed a formula now or the government has also adopted, a coalition for it which brings exceptions already at the starting point, and then has a special article which further deals with specific exceptional circumstances. We have this right now twice in this constitutional law. If the government, if the government coalition, if the supporters of this constitutional change are going to deal with the key problem in this country, that is to say public finances, then you have consciously decided on a diversion to public finances. Never use and never suggest anything, and it's completely what's already working somewhere, which works, but you always have to make some effort to invent something else along with it, which allows tolerance, which increases the tolerance area for what you're proposing. And such an approach in this implementing law is unsettled. If we had a responsible government, if we had responsible governments in the past, in fact we would not need this fiscal rule — not in the constitution and not in the special law, because every time the government would know, it would feel where it could go with the shifts from balanced public finances. Unfortunately, we only had one serious period when this actually happened. This was the period 2004-2008, where there was virtually a surplus in the budget in 2007. Also, 2008 would have been if the new government had not come into office, because that month and a half or two months at the end of this appetite, with the burdens of the budget, that something had gotten worse for the predecessors, and it turned out to be about a hundred million or more deficits. The government in the period 2004-2008, which was the first Janša government, has achieved these fiscal results, despite the fact that a tax reform has been carried out, which is often mentioned by all and never forget to say that this is due to the lack of billions and 200 million euros in budgets. Despite a reduction in the budget's revenue, as reliefs have been made for about 600 million in the economy and 600 million in taxes, a balanced budget has emerged. All that followed was, in the period 2008-2011, an eccentric shift from balancing public finances, a systemic approach to financing and implementing policies for which there was no coverage in the budget. Mr Borut Pahor, Mr France Križanič and their team have been doing everything in the opposite direction. The only password we heard here was that a French-German train would arrive to pull the Slovenian economy and public finances out of this deep crisis that it fell into. This wait for the French-German train cost 8 billion. So many additional tasks were carried out in three years at the time. And these 8 billion were used exclusively for public consumption in Greece. No investment, no measures for the economy. However, there have been many social deteriorations during this period with changes in laws and additional taxes, yet another 8 billion have been needed. And if I am not mistaken, something similar has happened in the mandate of the government of Alenka Bratušek, who came for the second government of Janez Janša. With only one difference – everything was only going three times faster. Here we have constantly listened, including the then representatives of the government, the finance minister, to offer these bonds in ransom. We didn't listen to anyone else back then in the National Assembly. And the same policy, this is called extra taxes, extra burdens and just public spending financing. Here in this National Assembly, the then Prime Minister has said publicly that there will be no intervention in the public sector. And the lady lectured a few hours ago about how we must act so that we do not have similar problems as Greece. However, speed went exponentially up as to its period and its indebtedness. In one year and another, look at the data, and you'll see how it went. As for the text of the Constitution, John Janša’s government prepared this. This week, the biggest opposition party in Positive Slovenia, led by Alenka Bratušek, opposed the entry of a fiscal rule into the constitution with all four until the lady became Prime Minister and came from her first visit to Brussels. Since then, politics has changed completely. That's what you have in your magnetograms, that's what you do, that's what you vote for. And the SD, which initially said something about liability for fiscal rule, look at the vote. If I am not mistaken, only Mr Borut Pahor has supported the fiscal rule and the constitutional record. So much about how you faithfully follow your ideals, loyally following what you say. And now we are witnessing some head-jumping into an empty pool, both in the Alliance, both in some others, who will insist on a new path, which is now somehow regulated and changed by the force of the situation. As regards what I asked at the outset in this procedural work of the Minister. Either the minister is deceiving or those who apologize for one or the other solution in the implementing law do not understand what this is about. How should someone who speaks as a Member who has gone further into the complementary proposal of the law on the implementation of the fiscal rule talk about not supporting our proposal because he is more acute because he is less tolerant of the implementation of public finances than a government proposal? And how at the same time with the same solution to understand someone who has joined the support that the Minister proposes a sharper solution than our proposal, which we have advocated, such as the Swiss formula. This means that those who accede to this pact to write a fiscal rule into the implementing law are only seeking excuses for how you will come to some solutions over, I don't know, projects that Mr Dobovšek says the most about, and some sacrifices of your principles and your pride. I think that in this work, if we want things to be very clear, that there will be no debate as to whether what is the right solution or not is the right solution, after this law is implemented, that every time the government will not have the right to any interpretation of what it will do, and then through the fiscal world itself, which it will appoint, it will get some legitimacy for what it does to be written in the implementing law, something that is absolutely unequivocal. And the purpose of writing down the fiscal rule into the Constitution is also that every single solution can be verified in cases also in the Constitutional Court. And what you're doing with this proposal of this law means we actually have two constitutions. One we have adopted in 2013 and one constitution you will adopt now, which is different from the one enshrined in Article 148 as regards the area of public finances regulation. The fog, the perfect fog. And the thing you're proposing is not properly arranged. If the marriage solution is not clear, if it allows 30 interpretations, 45 correct executions, then it is not a formula and it is not law. If we are unable to write into the implementation of the constitutional provision something that is unequivocal, which is clear to anyone who takes the matter into their hands, which has one solution, then something with this formula, after proposing an inequality, is not the same. Swiss formula means budget deficit, however similar. The government is proposing a smaller or equal. It's not really a formula, it's an inequality. And the inequality, as we all know, has more solutions. Inequality usually has more and more solutions. He's got the top, the bottom, and then he's got the middle, and so on. Therefore, I say that it is unacceptable for us to go to a policy, one thing in the area of public finances, which does not have a clear solution, but has built-in double exceptions. This is said to be the first in the starting point, the starting point in the formula and then the specific exception provision. It is impossible to expect that we will implement and work in public finances in such a way that things will be regulated, clean, transparent, transparent. In fact, this is the principle of the operation of all left governments so far, when only the reasons for deviations from have always been sought. And the reasons why the deficit can always be large enough. Never has there been an effort to reduce the deficit. What is still an additional problem, I think, is that we are dealing with the implementation of budgets with the final accounts with our left hand, virtually under a minimum option. The final account is a key certificate of the government's operation and, as a rule, the deficits in all final accounts are significantly higher than the plan or revenues or the draft budget itself. Because there's still a lot going on in the middle. And then it's done like this with your left hand and under the table. If a large-scale government executes a budget, the only solution is to demand a vote on a confidential one. That's the solution. As long as that is not the case, no government will carry out its tasks responsibly and all is well with what happens. But if we systematically approach planning to make more mistakes than is permissible in the end, then conceptually, I will say, the philosophical sense of the approach is completely wrong. The philosophy of this law is completely flawed and cannot for the Republic of Slovenia, for public finances, for the state budget, bring anything good, because everyone will do as they do there on the other hand, just how to spend the matter, and how much we can take to get to the limit of spending. This is the philosophy of this approach. And if we want to seriously address the situation created by irresponsible governments during this period, and two governments in this period, then this must be done. The only law, a serious law in this period that was adopted after 2008, is the law on the balance of public finances. The only serious law in force to implement this fiscal rule. Very critical, attacked by all parties who are now in the government coalition, but unable to eliminate it, they could have voted it out by one vote. However, he is the only one who has been adopted and follows the balance of public finances. And this government has not yet eliminated any privileged solution, except Sazuz, and yet another little thing that could clear up the matter and put an end to it. The pension system in this part, when hidden in thousands of unjustifiable cases, remains intact because some things have happened, etc. I suggest that if you have a good purpose and want to see that there will be balanced public finances, then it is probably necessary to adopt a formula that is very unequivocal, which no longer has solutions and which does not allow interpretation. However, this proposal for a government solution is diametrically contrary to that and is therefore the government, so the Minister and also the government coalition are extremely defending such a solution only because it does not allow interpretation and does not allow different outputs and calculations and solutions using the formula referred to in Article 3. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? We're at Article 3 and the amendment. Please sign up. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President! At the outset, I must say that the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party will be supported. I would like to point out, however, that it is very unfortunate that practically three quarters of Parliament is empty to listen to the debate that was just before me when Mr Jože Tanko spoke. I think that from the point to the point he has exposed everything that is the key difference that we want to achieve with this amendment that we are proposing and between what the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has proposed. Among other things, he made it very clear, and I will repeat it again, because it seems very important to me why we need a golden fiscal rule in Slovenia. The fact is, if all policies from the beginning of Slovenia were fair to this day and carried out their work responsibly and honestly, we would not need this rule. We wouldn't have 30 billion debt, we wouldn't have 82% of the country in debt in terms of GDP. And it wouldn't have happened to us that in three, four years we'd be in debt to the country for more than 20 billion. Can any of you imagine what this means in a small country like Slovenia? What does that mean, 20 billion? I listened here today to the debate that I was going to throw up. I'm sick. I'm sick. People who are absolutely responsible for not saying anything about not saying anything, how to express themselves, how not to personally offend someone, who are guilty of the situation, today they are talking in superlatives about what needs to be done and what needs to be done. Such people no longer have anything to look for here in the National Assembly, not to send brains here to those who are sitting here who have been through defending exactly what we are defending today. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have neither lied for a millimeter, nor thought otherwise, nor made any decisions in a different context than we have advocated today, and this has been the case since the beginning of the Slovenian Democratic Party. And this way we'll go and continue. That is why we have also proposed this amendment because we want things to be clearly set out, there is no doubt about who, what, when and why. And there will be no doubt that the next government will still have the opportunity to do such dirty and irresponsible things as the Brother's Government and the Borut Pahor government have done when the country is owed between €8 billion and €10 billion without need. No self-restraint. What is essential for the Slovenian people to know and understand? They don't care about the Swiss formula or I don't know any other formula. They are interested in how, and they are interested in, how they will live in this country in the future, whether they will be able to survive at all. That's what they're interested in. Everyone, however, should also be interested in everyone sitting here, including the Minister of Finance. But we're avoiding responsibility again. We are again looking for ways and ways to avoid some key responsibilities. We're doing it again with this story. How many times, over and over in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we warn, but the majority, which it has, and this socialist government, I must say, I hope to say this because it is nothing different, nothing better, except, I hope to say, some Members and Members within the SMC Group of Members who think honestly and responsibly, it leads this story in the same direction and on the same path. And for once in this National Assembly, I ask that we be gathered here by a majority, regardless of the political option, to strike once on the table and finish this story. Otherwise, the Slovenian people will make it out of us. And he's right. He's right! We can't keep avoiding responsibility again. We can't and we can't! That is why we are here to accept it without avoiding and seeking and adopting and proposing legislation to avoid key stories. It's irresponsible, irresponsible, unacceptable, perverse, rude, I don't know what other terms a man could use. And please, let's end this! I do not understand the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but I do not understand the coalition, I understand those individual parties who are here to prevent this government or any government from doing anything clever for the benefit of citizens and citizens. I understand that. But I do not understand the serious customers and serious groups who are somehow responsible for the coming of our beautiful Republic of Slovenia. So please, those of you who understand what we're trying to do with this, to really think about it before you press the button today. And don't let anyone who knows exactly why they're doing this manipulate you. If you look at when we talk about self-restraint, those who have minimum wage, pensioners with low pensions, those who are at the employment office, unemployed, socially threatened, are not the problem. The problem is somewhere else. You all know exactly where the problem is and where to limit the story, because this country didn't come as much as it used to. And you don't have to be a philosopher, you don't have to be smart, you don't have to have any doctorate, you just need a healthy farm of brains and a farmer's logic, and you get it. And if we walked this path, this country would be a country of everyone and everyone, a just state based on the rule of law, not on the rule of thievery, exploitation, privileged groups and so on. And let's get this over with. I ask you, colleagues and colleagues, who you are, look at that side – is this a responsibility? The United Left, SD, Desus, ZaAB or whatever it is called, but except for one gentleman who is not so in this party, I don't know if he's still in the party or not, I apologize to Mr Wilfan. I'm not talking about the government on the other side. Except for Mr. Secretary, it's a great honor for him to hold on to you. You don't have anyone here. Look at the responsibility! And such ones would like to salt the minds of the Slovenian people. They don't have anything to look for in these rooms, they can't be here anymore, they can't be. This is what I ask the Slovenian people to find out and understand once and know when the elections will be, even when it is appropriate to respond to all of this. Because it's bullshit. It's bullshit. It's bullshit. It's bullshit. And someone else telling me that I'm a demagog, that I speak demagogos! But my dear colleagues, look at the truth, look at the truth, this is the truth, this is the responsibility, and these are the people who avoid responsibility, these are the parties and the toilets that should have sailed long ago, either Mura or Drava or I don't know any other river. Seriously. I must say that I am very disappointed, on such an important issue, this question is not important, this question is of great importance if we want to ensure to our country that in the future it can function as normally as possible, that pensioners will receive paid pensions, that teachers will get paid, that doctors will get their story paid, that the judges will be the ones I have, either way, that they will be paid for it, that these people will get it. Today, there is virtually no one in Parliament from those parties who do not know how to speak explain how they are fighting for the social state, how they care about those people who have low pensions, those who are in the employment institution who are unemployed. Those who say, how are we going to pass the law now for a while to write off their debts and so on — where are those people today? Where? Please, let the Slovenian public see this once! That's all there is to it. And that must be done. Therefore, dear Members, I appeal primarily to the SMC, and I expect you to make a real decision this time on your conscience, not under any pressure, because only in this case will we cut off those hunters from the background who are trying to manipulate politics in the National Assembly. We in the Slovenian Democratic Party have been on the same path from the very beginning and we will insist and work to unite part of the Slovenian Parliament in such a way that it will follow the path that the Slovenian people deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u107	Thank you very much. I give my word to Dr. Dusan Marble, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Let me just answer some of the allegations. First of all, with regard to these inequalities, that they are not clear, uniform and so forth, they are ambiguous. In fact, these inequalities determine what the maximum amount of expenditure is. That's what they say. There can't be more than that. And that's unequivocal, clear and so forth. There can be less expenditure, then, of course, the deficit is lower or the surplus is higher. But when you have the same or the smaller one, it's said, expenses can be one or the smaller one, nothing else. And that's just a record of what's in the Stability and Growth Pact and what's in the fiscal pact. Where is the key difference now with the Swiss formula? The key difference is that this allows even more than 0.5% of the structural deficit at a time when it goes poorly. But that means that you have to have more than enough in times of good times. So there must be an inequality, which means that when things go well, you can't have that much expenditure, you can only have less. And so there must be an inequality that you can bring in what you lost at a time when you had a bigger deficit. Why do you have to have a higher deficit when you have a bad condition? We have two economic theories, one Kenyan one, one neoclassical one. And I say, no one works at all times and in all economic conditions. One works better in bad times, it's Kenyan, and one works better in good times, it's neoclassical. They both have elements when they can work in both. And then when things go bad, then you need to help the economy with additional demand, that's the Kenyan model, and that's what I've been explaining since the first reading of this law, that it's essential to help. You can help in two ways, or with a more expansive monetary policy, which is what the European Central Bank is currently doing, when this quantitative release helps the European Union economy to essentially drive what the US Central Bank has done a long time ago and the American economic growth has grown very much. Or fiscal policy or both. America did this to both of us. So she went to the deficit, helped with the additional demand of the state and also spent extra money. We do not have a monetary policy in Slovenia, so we cannot help with the extra issue of money. The policy of the European Central Bank, as I explained at that time, is more focused on the whole euro area, where it has the greatest weight of the countries that are the largest. Not looking at what Slovenia would help, but watching what helps the entire area, and the whole area is dominated by Germany, Spain, France and so on. This does not help us when we need it, and this has been the case in this crisis. So what's left for you? There's no other option than an additional fiscal incentive. And here this one is very limited. 0.5% of gross domestic product is a very small fiscal stimulus. Now in this crisis there were 3% or 4% of gross domestic product, we have 0.5, because these are the rules of this Stability and Growth Pact and we cannot go through it. But if we don't take advantage of it, then we do have a problem. Then we have nothing in our hands when there is one shock or this small 0.5%. That is why we have proposed essentially this change that this record of the Stability and Growth Pact and the Fiscal Pact has come in the form that is now enshrined in this Article 3 of our Act. That's why we have a problem with the Swiss formula, because then it's all automatic and you have nothing to answer with. And this can be very bad for the economy, because you have to help it, as it is with us right now, you have to help it to come into being and start working hard again. Then you have to take that away, and when the economy goes well, you have to save it. There's nothing here. And you have to save more than a Swiss formula. That's all logic. So please understand, this is no two-pronged solution, this is the basic logic adopted by the European Union. The European Union was aware that it could not write the Swiss formula because it has so different situations across different countries within the euro area and even more within the EU area. That is why this is essentially a record of what is now possible in EU legislation and we have taken advantage of these options here. As we have it written down, it has Germany written down, exactly the same. Germany is in a much better position than we are, because the European Central Bank is also responding to the needs of Germany, not to the needs of Slovenia. And it's also 0.5, says it can take advantage of this deficit when it's absolutely necessary. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I must admit, I was very happy to listen to you. When we proposed this amendment, we were also aware of some, we could say problems, both Kenyan theories and neoclassical ones. But it is a special feature of these post-communist societies in other relationships, in sociology, in history, it is also about changing people's mentality and so on. The fiscal rule that we even introduced into the constitution is due mainly to one side of the populist governments that can perform in Slovenia, which do not cut, who do not want to cut, who do not want to adopt certain structural reforms, because they are liked. This is a typical story we see in Greece today. It's not just the Syrians. Siriza is only the result of the summit of all populist governments. It's some story from the last 30 years. Let me explain again. Before this amendment is drafted, I still believe that the Swiss formula as such works, but also in this room with everything you have listed, Mr Minister, with an attachment to sociological views, historical views and everything else, which creates some optimal fiscal policy of a country or, ultimately, some final macroeconomic policy. With this amendment, we want to propose a more restrictive spending of the country at the time of economic growth, especially if this economic growth is something above average. What can happen to us many times, Your Honor. In our gross social product there are 70 % of exports. We're an extremely export country. I agree with you about the fact that we can't, with the Swiss maybe, not in the euro area, they can also raise inflation, they can give a bigger circulation of money and everything else, they have some extra, we can say, leverage. Your fear of why the Swiss formula was changing was therefore a water problem. Problem with the rules of bounds, I'd say if I said "domestic." We believe that this deficit can be greater when we are in crisis, especially for such a small country, which is highly export-oriented. Slovenia is not self-sufficient. With us, domestic consumption is also the biggest problem. We are highly dependent on foreign spending. We also have a problem right now. I have also explained to you many times the problem of excise duties and everything else, that they are not optimized, that excise models are not optimized according to the geostrategic position, according to everything else. Our proposal is that this law can be a fiscal rule not only unconstitutional but that it can work is to adopt this amendment. I think it is necessary that this help, this difference, when it goes worse, is so much more loose when it goes well that it is so much more restrictive. Especially if this economic growth is a few percent higher, but what can happen to us, I hope it can happen to us. For what? The first thing is that we have fallen, it has to be realized that 2.5% of economic growth means nothing. We must be aware that we have lost 100,000 jobs in five years, we do not speak 50,000 Slovenians and Slovenes and foreign citizens who have worked here in Slovenia. On the other hand, economic growth is the first year of conjuncture there minus 6, minus 4, minus 5. We have come or economic growth has fallen in recent years by about 20% or more, I think. So 2.5% is nothing at this point. But the trends that I'm looking at right now, let's say the orders for the automotive industry, which is one of the export most important, let's say the people who generate this economic growth, at this point they're increasing, certain markets are opening up, maybe China is closing, the American market is rising and so on. Nevertheless, economic growth can rise next year. Then it is the first case that this amendment, which we propose, will begin to work. We must be aware of these strict restrictive policies at the time of economic growth. And we expect slackness when we have this fall. I'm aware of what you've been explaining, at least 80%, Mr. Minister, I'll buy these theories, in my own words. The only difference is that we've looked at more of these nuances. What is the specificity of Slovenians as mentalities, how consumers decide how foreigners see us, what our economic phases are, what our exports mean and what it means when we get into crisis. It is necessary to be aware, Minister, of two factors. Greece is in crisis with 100% of GDP, with 175% of GDP in 5 years. I'd say it's a 175-odd index. Slovenia comes from 22% at the end of 2009, we have 82% in 2011. We have an index of 370. So our systems, our subsystems, our mentality doesn't work and it's catastrophic. The next entry into a serious recession as a strong export small country means for the Slovenian people Greece. It means disaster, and it means something we're not aware of here today. That's my prediction. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 3? Since no one wants to, I am closing the debate and moving on to Articles 8, 9, 10 and 15. Since the amendment of the United Left Group to Article 8 is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Articles 9, 10 and 15, we will discuss them together. I am putting to the debate Articles 8, 9, 10 and 15 and the amendments of the United Left Group. You want to discuss it. I'm asking you to sign up anyway. Mr. Miha Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u112	President, thank you very much for your word. In the United Left, we oppose the fiscal rule law as such, but we have proposed some amendments, which are some kind of social security guard in this fiscal rule that we reject. We reject this rule because rejection of the fiscal rule does not constitute bankruptcy, as we have heard intimidation today in the debates. It's not even a neutral tool, but it's very clearly embedded in a neoliberal context. It is a neoliberal political strategy to reduce public well-being and to this end to increase the share of capital in GDP. There is a real commercialisation of some social sectors that are now withdrawn from market roads. The Minister of Finance has said many things in this regard and has confessed many things. In his initial intervention, he also quoted him, the first such thing is that the fiscal rule is an economically controversial solution. Secondly, fiscal rule is particularly problematic in a country that does not run its monetary policy, even if this monetary policy is stolen from someone else's needs. In the case of the EU, of course, there are strong countries here, and we are very specific about the fact that the policies of the euro are dictated by Germany. And for the third time, the fiscal rule enshrined in the constitution and in this law is stricter than what international treaties impose on us. Again, it is a point that many today have referred to, but it does not drink very well of water. As for the claim that we are living beyond our capabilities and that fiscal rule is the one that makes this impossible, see, the state is not a household. Slovenia is also far from bankruptcy. Since 2011, Slovenian society and economy have been creating more than spent, despite all the claims that have been circulating here today and have gone in the opposite direction. In particular, last year, the surplus of the balance of payments was already EUR 2.2 billion. A lot of money in short. Come on, debt problem. Last but not least, the current Minister of Finance, with his first ministry after 2002, showed how debt can be solved when debt as a percentage of GDP fell through the larger growth and through the higher revenues generated by this growth. And despite the large external surplus, which will already exceed 6.3% of GDP in 2016, the government intends to do nothing in this direction. It does not intend to increase its revenue by taking on some fair tax reform in order to undertake some fair tax. One such case is, for example, one. a profit tax of 17 % in Slovenia, in Austria of some 25% and in Italy of 27.5%. What are we gonna do about it? Yeah, we're gonna shut down the fourth grade, which is against any logic. These truths, these fundamental truths of the economic and social society, have been ignored by the coalition, but in the United Left we want to put forward a hand, a proposal and propose the following social corrections. Our amendments cover some of the three pillars. The first is to increase the democraticity of the fiscal world. The second is that the application of the fiscal rule is slightly delayed. And the third thing is that we're putting a social security guard in the fiscal rule. Now, if I hold back on the question of democracy first. In the United Left we extend the fiscal council to five members. This would ensure that the world-wide breadth of the fiscal world is widened. We stand against the predominance of some neoliberal economic doctrine and open up the possibility and space to include heterodox economic theories and experts who are not perfect neoliberal economic practitioners in these debates and fiscal worlds. Secondly, this opens the possibility for members of the fiscal council to be proposed also by workers' representatives, according to those who are the most affected by the decisions of the world. If anyone is concerned with the fiscal rule and the fiscal world, they are working people in the Republic of Slovenia. As regards the delay in the application of the fiscal rule, we propose that the first budget be drawn up in accordance with this rule only in 2017 for the following year, so 2018. The current situation is such that it recovers economically and is a key obstacle to domestic demand. And if we delay this implementation of the fiscal rule here, we get in two precious years, which would allow a little more maneuverable space for economic recovery. And perhaps, given how the situation of forces in Europe is changing, we also expect rules to be relaxed at European Union level. The Minister has also repeatedly said that the methodology and definitions are very likely to change, and perhaps even because of countries such as France, the fiscal rule will fall completely into the water, which would generally be great. In short, this buys us time to change the constitution so that the fiscal rule goes back to history. In the United Left, we are certainly ready to support something like this when it comes to this point. Social security. In Article 12, we add a new exception to the application of the fiscal rule. The fiscal rule shall not apply if the provision of social rights resulting from Article 2 of the Slovenian Constitution is jeopardised. I think we all know damn well what this article is here. No article of the Constitution is absolute. Neither does Article 148 of the Constitution. We must always place one constitutional value on the scale here and another constitutional value, and in this case, social rights certainly have an advantage. This amendment to Article 12 thus allows the Government to make a selective exception to social expenditure without in any way violating its fiscal rule. In addition, I would like to recall Article 103 of the Charter of the United Nations, which reads as follows: "If the conflict between the obligations of Members of the United Nations under this Charter and their obligations under any other inter-community agreement prevails over their obligations under this Charter." End of quote. In summary, the country must first take care of social rights, and only then will the Stability and Growth Pact come into play. This is kind of a summary of our Socialists' position towards fiscal rule, and these are also the amendments we are proposing. We appeal to all present to support these amendments, to support them on behalf of democracy, to support them on behalf of working people, the vast majority of Slovenian citizens and citizens, and to support them also on behalf of safeguarding social stability, social security, which is of exceptional vital importance when we are talking about the constitution of a country. Why don't we finally have a country, if not for providing some social security and security network to our citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. I conclude the debate at this point and move on to Article 11. I am putting to the debate Article 11 and the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I'm moving on to Article 12. I am putting to the debate Article 12 and the amendment of the United Left Group. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 16 and the amendment of the United Left Group. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 19th item of the agenda. I'm breaking up the 12th item of the agenda. We're moving on to 13. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law implementing the customs provisions of the European Community within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary Mag. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u114	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Members! The bill before you is prepared for two reasons, first by removing administrative obstacles and deregulation of one of the professions and further by aligning with the changes in European legislation as well as domestic ones. It's a technical rule in the first place. First, on the first substantive set of changes. The proposal for a law removes the conditions for carrying out representation operations before the customs authorities. We call them forwards in a popular way, since 1 May 2016 it will no longer be necessary to carry out specific tests of knowledge. That is when the new EU Customs Code, which directly regulates representation before the customs authorities for authorised economic operators and special regulation in national legislation, is no longer necessary. However, a person who gains the status of an authorised economic operator will be able to carry out business without any restrictions in all EU Member States in accordance with the new customs code. The proposed amendment regulates the possibility of selling non-community goods at airports and ports. In this regard, provisions concerning the control of the sale of goods in frontier shops as well as the relevant criminal provisions are also being amended. The provisions of Articles 33 and 35 of the Law on the implementation of customs rules which form the basis for the issue and define the content of the rules on the implementation of the Single Administrative Charter, the electronic operation of the customs administration and other forms used in customs procedures are further amended. In this part too, it is necessary to comply with the amendments to European legislation. The next change is also part of this set. These are procedural provisions relating to the implementation of the European Regulation governing the action of customs authorities against goods suspected of violating certain intellectual property rights. These are smuggled goods or counterfeits. Since a new regulation has been adopted at EU level in 2013 and is new to this area and repealing the regulation in force, we are removing the provisions in question from the law because we will regulate them within the national regulation for the implementation of the European Regulation, such as in other countries or in other cases such regulations. We align the draft law editorially with the provisions of the Financial Administration Act and define in more detail the term 'customs authority', which we no longer have defined in other regulations by repealing the Customs Service Act. Dear Members and Members! In the light of all the above, I propose that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law implementing the customs rules of the European Community be supported in both the second and third readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to Vice-President Tiln Christmas to present the report to the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u116	The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is held at its 11th regular session. 6. In 2015, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law implementing the customs rules of the European Community, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government, was considered as the parent labour force. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the law submitted in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view and made comments. The Committee was also given an opinion by the Commission of the State Economic, Trade, Tourism and Finance Council, as well as amendments by SMC, DeSUS and SD Group Members. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. Following an introductory explanation of the draft law by the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, the Committee, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, considered and adopted amendments to the SMC, Desus and SD coalition groups. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all articles of the bill together and adopted them with 13 votes in favour and none against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Bojan Krajnc will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Law amending and supplementing the Law implementing the customs rules of the European Community follows the amendments adopted at European Union level since the last amendments to the Law in 2007 in the field of customs legislation and following amendments to national legislation in the field of customs rules. For example, the EU Regulation has entered into force the European Community Customs Code and the Financial Administration Act has been amended in its domestic legislation. The law thus includes a change in the use of the terms "customs administration, the General Customs Office and the Customs Office" and replaces them throughout the text with the terms "financial administration, the General Financial Office and the Financial Office". The law so clearly defines that the financial administration is the authority that performs the duties and obligations of the customs authority in accordance with the customs legislation of the European Union, international treaties and other legislation which refers to the customs authorities. The law repeals the obligation to carry out specific professional checks to obtain a licence for representation before the customs authorities, but that provision does not apply until 1 May 2016 when the Union Customs Code which directly regulates the business of representation for the so-called authorised economic operators enters into force. The law also regulates e-commerce with financial administration in respect of the performance of customs formalities in such a way that the conditions and rules of operation are laid down by the Minister responsible for the finance. The power to adopt such a provision shall be conferred on the Implementing Regulation of the Union Customs Code. In accordance with the provisions of this Regulation, the customs authorities shall determine the conditions and method for the exchange of data which are standardised messages agreed between Member States, thereby ensuring the interoperability of the customs information systems of the Member States of the European Union. Furthermore, the law provides for the deletion of provisions on customs measures in respect of infringements of intellectual property rights, providing in the transitional provisions for their reasonable application until the application of the national regulation implementing the EU regulation on the enforcement of intellectual property rights by customs authorities. The provisions relating to the sale of goods in cross-border shops are amended and supplemented by reflecting the actual situation after the entry of Croatia into the European Union and, at the same time, the measures of customs control of frontier shops with a view to increasing clarity, transparency and ensuring adequate control are combined in one place. The Government states in its proposal or explanation of the law that there will be no need to provide additional financial resources for the implementation of the law, as the funds for the implementation of the law are provided in the State budget under the financial plan of the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. In the SMC Group, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the implementation of the customs rules of the European Community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, chairman. Hello again! Slovenia entered a single customs area at the time of entry into the European Union, a space based on the free movement of goods, services, capital and people. The area of free movement of goods is governed by the uniform rules of the customs union, which must also be applied in Slovenia. The single common customs rules apply directly, meaning that their transposition into national law is not necessary, but that Member States have the possibility of their own arrangements for certain areas, so we have a special law in Slovenia that specifically regulates these areas. This is the law we are talking about today, the law implementing the customs rules of the European Community. The law entered into force in 2004 and was completed in 2007. This time, too, it is only a partial reform of the law, while a comprehensive reform of the law, which will be fully in line with the new customs law of the Union, can not be expected until early 2016. Among other amendments to the proposed law is that all those who have the status of authorised economic operator will be able to carry out representation operations in all EU Member States. Since Slovenia is one of the countries that requested specific professional checks for representation before the customs authorities, it must abolish this licence in accordance with European law. A number of changes in the law relate to editorial corrections relating to the change in the use of the concepts of customs authorities with the concepts of financial authorities, which are linked to the previous reorganisation of customs and tax administrations. However, most of the amendments to the proposed law relate to the sale of goods in border stores, where it is actually a matter of alignment with the real situation, which should have been amended after Croatia's entry into the European Union. Although we regret in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group that we have only minor changes to the law before us and that we do not have a law before us that fully takes account of changes at EU level. However, we agree with the proposed amendments to the law, so we will support the law implementing the customs rules of the European Community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u122	Thank you very much, President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Allow this time very briefly the position of the Desus Group on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law implementing the customs rules of the European Community. This law is truly technical in nature, so a lot of words are not to be lost, but for a short time. The law, as it is said, will be unanimously supported by our parliamentary group, following the amendments adopted in the field of customs legislation at European Union level and aligning with the changes in the environment in which it is applied. The proposed changes, inter alia, mean reducing administrative barriers and in some ways deregulation of the freight forwarder profession. In accordance with European legislation, the law stipulates that there will no longer be a need for a special examination for freight forwarders and that customs officers will have to pass the customs examination as yet. The proposal for a law contains the replacement of certain terms, such as the Customs Administration, the General Customs Office and the Customs Office, with the terms of the Financial Administration, the General Financial Office and the Financial Office, throughout the text of the law. At the same time, it also clearly defines that the financial administration is the authority that performs the tasks and obligations of the customs authority under EU customs law, international treaties and other legislation where it refers to the customs authority. Electronic business with the financial administration regarding the performance of customs formalities is regulated in the proposal by setting out the conditions and rules of operation of the Minister responsible for finance. The power to adopt such a provision shall be conferred on the Implementing Regulation of the Customs Code. In accordance with the provisions of the Implementing Regulation of the Customs Code, the customs authorities shall determine the conditions and methods for the exchange of data which are standardised communications agreed between Member States, thereby ensuring the interoperability of the information systems of the EU Member States. The provisions relating to the sale of goods in frontier shops are amended and supplemented to reflect the actual situation with regard to the entry into the EU of the Republic of Croatia. At the same time, customs controls of border stores are combined in one place with a view to increasing clarity, transparency and ensuring, in particular, adequate control over the operation of border stores. However, users will be allowed to access in the most friendly manner the information they need to carry out customs formalities before the customs authorities. As we say, in our Group of Members, we agree with the proposed amendments and additions to this Act and will therefore support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u124	Thank you for your words and your warm greeting also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, in which we will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law implementing the customs rules of the European Community as it is to comply with the text of the Financial Administration Act, which provides that the Financial Administration is a single body, and thus the customs authorities of the financial administration are responsible for the implementation and application of the customs rules of the European Union. That's what it says in this law. Despite the fact that Slovenia has been a full member of the European Union for many years, however, it is happening to us that a certain text of European legislation is literally also translated into our legal order, which of course is not allowed. This law also eliminates this weakness, and in fact, we take the text of EU legislation into account, either originally or meaningfully, and in this case it is also a matter of harmonisation with EU legislation. The removals of administrative barriers are also welcome, and we hope that they will actually come to life in practice, which is always welcome. Finally, due to Croatia's entry into the European Union, the status of shops at border crossings has changed. Thus, border merchants under this law shall remain in fact aligned with other shops, except airports and ports, from which passengers may travel outside the customs territory of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the implementation of the customs rules of the European Community, which we are considering today, is only a technical regulation which is to harmonise our internal legislation with European Union legislation. This is the legislation of the European Union which has been adopted following the last amendment of this law. Although customs Union legislation is directly applicable, Member States have the power to regulate certain matters in the field of customs legislation in domestic legislation. This opportunity has been used by us and by a special law, which has regulated the specificity of our internal arrangements in particular with regard to the competence of the authorities and the proper customs procedure. This legislation, however, needs to be aligned with the new European rules. One such novelty, which dictates changes in legislation, is the entry of the Republic of Hraška into the European Union and the associated regime for customs control of border stores in the area of road border crossings with Croatia. There is no longer a need for special regulation of this area with Croatia's entry into the EU. However, there remain frontier shops at airports and ports where goods are sold both to passengers travelling within the European Union and to passengers travelling to a third country. In order to control the goods sold to passengers of third countries, the owners or lessors of the frontier shops must keep the relevant records through a link to the account number. Due to all these changes, the criminal provisions should be properly harmonised. It is also necessary to bring the law into line with our internal rules. Last year, for example, the customs administration and the tax administration joined together into a joint financial administration. As a joint body, the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia shall have the powers of the customs authority, which must also be duly defined or harmonised in the law. Members of the New Slovenia Group will be supported by the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of Customs Regulations in the European Community for the above-mentioned reasons.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u127	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 19th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm putting an end to the 13th item of the agenda. We're moving to 17. At the end of the day, this is, on the other hand, a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Economic Companies following the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Mr Zdravko Restoršek, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u128	Honourable Presidents, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! You have before you the proposal for a new Company Act 1I, which began to be prepared by the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology in autumn 2013 and included a broad professional and interested public. The amendment of the Committee on the Economy of the National Assembly further improved the proposal for a novelty. The main solution in the proposal is the draft amendment to the Company Act 1I, which partially implements the Financial Directive 2013/34/EU in the Slovenian acquis. The main purpose of the transposition of the Directive is to harmonise accounting rules in the field of the European Union and to provide comparable and equivalent information from the company’s annual reports. The note also includes a simplified regime for micro-enterprises that will no longer be obliged to prepare an annex to the accounts. Another time. Special attention and great effort have been made in the formulation of provisions that build on the restriction on the establishment of companies. The main purpose of the provision is to try to prevent as many unfair business practices as possible related to the play of the establishment of new companies. Third time. In addition, provisions to improve corporate governance and corporate law are being built up. Criminal sanctions are also being renewed in order to ensure that the level of penalties depends on the size of the company. Fourth time. We support the amendments tabled by the coalition groups exempting the Republic of Slovenia and the companies associated with the management of its assets from restrictions of establishment. In accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that a third consideration of the proposed law be held at this meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Mark Ferruga. He's not here. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko has the floor to present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, chairman! Dear Members, honourable Members, Minister of State and Secretary of State! The Company Act is one of the more important laws for the economy and individuals who establish society. Any change in legislation in this area is particularly important that it does not interfere with the Constitution in order not to take part in a free economic initiative. On the other hand, legislation must protect businesses and individuals with fair business intentions and prevent the activities of the unfair. The proposed amendments to the Law on Business Companies bring more innovation to businesses and entrepreneurs. Partly implements the EU Directive, which focuses in particular on financial statements and changes in the thresholds for the classification of companies among micro, small, medium and large companies. It also introduces a number of other innovations, among which we find particularly important those that will at least partially limit and prevent unfair business practices related to the establishment of businesses. These are additional restrictions on the establishment of companies to those who have been fined at least twice by the Labour Inspectorate's decision to establish companies; a restriction on the establishment of those whose companies have been deleted from the Register without liquidation, although we believe it would be reasonable to lower the threshold of participation in the Shareholder's capital from 50 % to 25 %; a restriction on the chain with the restriction of the establishment of only one company for personal liability for a period of three months. The difficulty of setting up companies in stock makes sense if, with exceptions, those who have fair business purposes are excluded so as not to limit the free economic initiative. Regrettably, there are individuals today who already have a number of open-ended enterprises where there are no employees, and we would like you to be included. This is why we have also proposed an amendment to our Group of Members, which will be discussed below. We also think it makes sense to make the proposed amendment to prevent interference with the company's core capital, which will certainly make it difficult to cheat on the establishment and reselling of businesses, as we have seen in the past. We also support the extension of the limitation deadlines for companies which are majority owned by the State or local community. The insurance of the responsibility of the authorities of management and control is positive, but in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group we believe that the deductible franchise or amount to be covered by the responsible persons should be longer and the deadlines for the limitation of claims should be longer. With regard to the recast of criminal provisions, where the amount of fines depends on the size of society, we must point out that the amount of fines, in particular for micro and small companies, is excessive and, above all, disproportionately high in relation to the proposed fines for medium and large societies. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have proposed many amendments to the law on the home working body, which were unfortunately not adopted. However, I believe that at least some of these amendments have also touched you, because as a coalition on the committee you have tabled quite a few amendments with similar content, only slightly milder changes. We've tabled several amendments this time, and we're counting on your support. Since the law generally brings a number of positive news, we will support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u131	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u132	Thank you, President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for amendments to the Company Act gives rise to certain prohibitions or restrictions on the establishment of companies, which have led to different reactions, including some doubts whether the amendment does not limit the excessive development of entrepreneurship in Slovenia. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the novelty will not bring too much regulation. It is right to increase control and proportionately also to adapt penalties for those responsible. According to the new rules, penalties will depend on the size of the company, which we believe is fair. There have been enough unfair business practices and just such cases are those that have destroyed an encouraging business environment. The upgrading of control mechanisms is more than welcome in this case. There is no need for concern for all those who work in accordance with legal provisions. More concerned, however, may be those who are still engaged in black and chaining businesses to create a greater profit or may not be able to take responsibility for the obligations of a company operating in difficulty. Actions such as non-payment of employee contributions are mostly used to achieve personal benefit. In the DeSUS Group, we estimate that such problems need to be resolved as soon as possible, as a result they put in an unequal position all those who work honestly and try to positively influence the entire economy in Slovenia. We believe that we need to deal more with successful businesses, usually small innovative companies that succeed without any State aid. All too often, however, we focus on companies that are in difficulty because of irresponsibility. Tax money is mainly intended to cover failed attempts to restore the performance of such companies, rather than ending up in the hands of creators of excellent ideas in the form of incentives. The novelty also brings new criteria for the classification of companies. From now on, a number of companies will fall into the category of medium-sized enterprises, and the latter also means more reporting and auditing obligations and thus the possibility of more effective supervision. Despite the magnitude of the novelty in the DeSUS Group, we welcome all the provisions that will certainly contribute to clearer and more effective regulation in the area of the establishment of companies. After proper transformation with the amendments of the coalition on the parent working body, the content of the novel is appropriate and therefore will be supported by the DeSUS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u133	Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u134	Mr President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Company Act follows the important principle of ensuring a secure, efficient and business-friendly environment in the Republic of Slovenia, which is of course supported by the Social Democrats. It is particularly important that this novelty makes business easier in some way and that additional mechanisms for protecting creditors, employees and preventing any unfair practices may be introduced, which could reduce the sense of security and stability of the Slovenian economic space. It is also very important for us that the novelty, in some way through the measures proposed, also increases the level of employees and prevents abuses in the payment of contributions and taxes. What is crucial is that the Law on Economic Companies in its nature or its novelty strengthens the values of honesty and social responsibility and necessarily links it with the primary objective of making profits. The key solutions, which are highlighted in addition to the transposition of the European Directive into the legal order, are related to restricting the establishment of companies for those who have been identified as non-payers of contributions, non-payers of employees and those who are 50 % owners of limited liability companies that have been erased without liquidation and that the chaining and avoidance of liability also adequately limits the chain of undertakings which have largely allowed unfair practices, either in relation to employees or in relation to creditors who are often without a fair payment for the work done. What we see as particularly important is that the reform of the penal provisions in the amendment of the law in part of the offences introduce fines that are different in size, and we also support coalition amendments that adequately reduce the minimum penalty at certain points and thus increase the range to avoid possible disproportionate measures and overly penalising micro-enterprises, i.e. small entrepreneurs who, as we know, are the foundation of the Slovenian economy. Social Democrats will support the amendment of the law and welcome the solutions it brings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u135	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for which Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u136	Thank you for your word, chairman. A respected choir! In the United Left, we are inclined to change to prevent companies from becoming involved, to set up straw companies and all other forms of abuse, to abuse legislation and, above all, the illegal exploitation of workers and workers. Unfortunately, this time the amendments to the law will not achieve this to the extent possible. Why? The proposal does not address problems at the right end, as abuses and exploitation will not be prevented until we reverse the corporate governance paradigm and introduce economic democracy and labour management. By the way, it's both in the coalition contract of your coalition. The proposal is inconceivable; it does not introduce into our legal order all the good practices we know abroad. It sets too short and too few clear limits that undermine the stated purpose of the law. In the United Left, we are prepared to support the law, but we are conditional on the adoption of our amendment, which addresses the key shortcomings of the proposal. With the amendment, we extend the period of banning the establishment of businesses to owners who have gravely violated labour rights from one to three years. This proposal is also supported by trade unions, by the way. The changes will not sufficiently prevent criminal business models that harm workers and workers, other entrepreneurs and, ultimately, the country. What's going on in practice? Companies have blocked accounts for months, sometimes even years, but still operate, pay wages, hire new workers, send workers to work abroad, which is a clear signal that peripheral transactions are taking place, if I say so, only net salaries are paid, without social contributions. Transactions take place in cash or through alternative accounts. Companies used by violators for such abuses and for the severe exploitation of workers and workers shall be sold immediately before they are included in the list of non-payers or the list of non-proposers of accounts. Or there may be an extract of the responsible persons from the registers and records. Immediately thereafter, the seller sets up a new company and continues to exploit and play legislation. Over the past year, employers have not paid their contributions for 15 000 600 employees, which represents 2.2% of all employees in Slovenia, but we are underestimating the situation. From field witnessing, we can conclude that the situation is much worse. The proposed amendments to the law will not prevent the practice described. Authorized entrepreneurs will look for circuits, engage strawed associates and responsible persons. Similarly, Article 70, which tries to limit the increase in fixed capital of EUR 7 000 500, makes it impossible to resell businesses that can be purchased online for some 100 euros today. The provisions in the paper try to limit the transfer of these funds to certain persons, but the problems are not solved again. There will be new straw companies that do not reach the limits. Where's the solution? We need systemic changes, of course, only to prevent companies from operating for months, years, systematically violating labour, tax, criminal and other legislation. The expression modern-day slavery is saddened for workers trapped in such practices, totally justified. This time the changes are insufficient, although the ways to fix the situation are known. We know what legislative solutions are elsewhere, for example in Austria. We know that we have inadmissible controls and sanctions, which certainly shows a lack of political will. You probably know that we have only 80 working inspectors and inspectors, but we have almost 200,000 business entities, in fact around 190,000. The main condition for reducing infringements of labour rights is the end to the mercy and apathy of left-over workers and workers to administrations and owners. The democratic participation of employees in the management of businesses is essential. How we're going to vote is what I've already said. We link this to our amendment. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u137	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats, for which it is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u138	The objective of each company is for sure to generate profits. Nobody works consciously with loss. Of course, the category of profits cannot and must not be the sole purpose of the business. A successful and healthy company is one that not only gives priority to business interests at the expense of consumers and employees, but also fulfils all its obligations to the country, to employees. Slovenian practice in this area is not glamorous. There are many examples of the play of laws through fictitious establishment of businesses and other unfair business practices. Therefore, the proposal for a new Law on Economic Companies is welcome, as it represents one step more towards upgrading so far rather ineffective restrictions on the establishment of companies for those who use unfair practices. Let's take a closer look. The founder, partner and entrepreneur cannot become a person who, in the last three years, has been caught at least twice by a decision of the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for work or by the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for irregularities related to black work. It is also prohibited to establish companies for persons who were more than 50 % involved in the capital of a limited liability company. The new proposed restriction should thus further strengthen the conditions for who is the founder, partner or entrepreneur. The fact is that, despite the restrictions in force, there are still frequent cases of unfair business practices in the absence of payment from work and abuse in relation to the establishment of companies. Since these are the biggest violators of this title, we are convinced that a longer period should be established when the founder or the associate cannot set up a company. In the New Slovenia Group, we are confident that the purpose of the amendment of the law in this part will only be achieved if this period is long enough, sufficiently severe enough for people to simply give up these inappropriate practices. The new law also introduces a new restriction to prevent shareholders or business founders from becoming again persons directly involved in the capital of a limited liability company, which was deleted from the Court Register without liquidation. It is therefore for persons who have failed to exercise due diligence in their business. Only one year from the date of the removal of such a company from the register of justice, according to the New Slovenia Group, is it still too short for such a person to be able to establish a new society despite the serious violations after one year. However, the limitation over a period of three years would help prevent such business practices and increase the responsibility of the founders. It is right that the economic initiative is not too limited and that freedom of decision is allowed, and on the other hand it must also take account of the public benefits and rights of others. Christian Democrats, of course, advocate a free economic initiative. We advocate the freedom and initiative of individuals and the stability of changes that ensure a stable business environment. As long as entrepreneurs play the market game according to the rules laid down by the State, there is no justification for the active interference of the State with the business environment. However, if these frameworks are exceeded, the country is the first one to be obliged to fall into this unfair business practice. In Novi Slovenije we are advocates of a clear, responsible and socio-market-based business economic environment. A good and fair business environment also ensures respect for legal standards. If the applicants take our amendments into account and most of them accept them, the New Slovenia MEPs will support the amendment of the law, otherwise we will abstain.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u139	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Andreja Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u140	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues! We have before us the amendment to the Law on Economic Companies, which began to be prepared in autumn 2013. At that time, with a public call, interested in the amendment proposals, which were later taken into account in the amendment. A broad public debate was held between August and December 2014. A number of institutions participated in the preparations, from Apes, Furs, the Ministry of Public Administration, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of the Interior, the Police and many others. Special attention has been paid to curb unfair business practices related to the creation of new companies that have grown significantly in the domestic economic area in recent years. Some companies specialize in activities that bring nothing to society and distort the image of a successful entrepreneur and an economist. Whether bad practices should be sought in our country's youth and democracy, I'm afraid I don't know. However, I know that with a view to the future, we can prevent all those practices in companies that do not bring our economic space other than a bunch of played and exploited natural persons and economic operators, not least the country. The purpose of economic law is to set the framework for the creation of companies whose aim is to generate profits. At the same time, it is a statutory economic law in the service of protection of the common public interest. This is reflected in the creation and protection of quality jobs and values that give a positive signal to all those who want an entrepreneurial path. That is why we have made sure that the novel brings the necessary changes and gives a clear signal that we are serious about combating unfair business practices in the Republic of Slovenia. We want to limit the possibility of setting up a company to those whose companies have been erased from the Court Registry in the past without liquidation or have been employed in black and have violated the rules on payment for work. With the law before us, we also want to prevent the chaining of businesses. The founders of limited liability companies or the shareholders will not be able to continuously establish new companies unless at least one person is employed in these companies. If an entrepreneur can also create new jobs with profits obtained through the chain of undertakings, the law does not prevent him from doing so. In the SMC Group, we advocate a balance between an intervention in a free economic initiative and a restriction on the prohibition of the establishment of businesses. Therefore, in some cases, we have also proposed extending the deadlines which on the one hand relate to the prohibition of the establishment of enterprises and on the other, to the duration of the compensation responsibility of the management and control authorities in state-owned enterprises. All this with the desire to build a modern economic environment and business culture, which will thus be comparable to best foreign practices. Finally, I would like to point out that the purpose of the proposed changes is not to punish people entering the entrepreneurial environment and economic space, but, above all, to create a fair business environment. In the SMC Group, we support the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u141	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 10 July. Seven. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the four amendments of the SDS Group, the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD, the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the United Left Group. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u142	Thank you for your word, President. We have a very important law ahead of us. Among the laws belonging to the Ministry of Economy, I believe that this is the most important law, which most likely also shows that it has been preparing and coordinating for so long. There is always a dilemma to find the right balance in the way that we do not limit the free economic initiative and of course to get all those who abuse legislation, which uses thousands and one way to circumvent legislation in different ways; for example, like, I don't know, setting up companies in stock, reselling businesses. We know that at least a little while ago there were websites where you could buy a company for small money, different chains of companies and so on. This law before us has many good solutions. I'm sure it's a law that goes in the right direction. However, in some ways, I am assessing that certain articles could make them a little more stringent. If I refer to this most important Article 2, where there were the most and most specific additions that actually relate to restricting the establishment of companies. It makes sense, though we know that years ago there was a debate about this, to consider how to actually stop and punish those who deliberately bankrupt the company. We know that the initiatives were in this direction, that the matter did not go through the legislative process, because then it fell in the Constitutional Court, but, however, there are still unfair practices in this way, so that perhaps in the future we could think more in this direction. We also know that we have said that we will punish those who set up companies in stock, and we will punish those who have inactive companies. In order for these companies to be active, they are essentially four points. One is that they must have an open transaction account, absolutely so that they have not been made public in the last 12 months on the list of non-proposers of accounts, that they do not have outstanding obligations to the Financial Administration and that they have an employee or an insured participant for at least half of their time. Our proposal for an amendment is going in the direction of one person. It is true that this shows some activity, we have had a debate on it on the committee, but anyway, I see no reason why it would not be a full-time job here. The second thing, however, seems extremely important to me that in some way also those who already have more businesses opened up, more inactive companies and do not employ people. Even if someone has 10 inactive companies already open today, they will still be able to open an additional company. We do not include these here, and therefore we have actually proposed that not only those who opened the company three months ago should be taken into account, but that these conditions would apply to all their companies owned by them. The SDS Group's amendment is actually going in this direction. because we want to limit those who already have open inactive companies. I believe and might also ask for information if you have it, how many such cases there are in Slovenia. But I know they exist. Now in general, however, as I have said before, I feel that marriage is not bad, that it is going in the right direction. As far as the criminal provisions themselves are concerned, despite the fact that the penalties on the committee have been slightly reduced, I still estimate that they are too high for small and medium-sized enterprises. Maybe we should think about it this way. In some ways we do not want to restrict ourselves, we actually want more entrepreneurs, we want a lot of unemployed decisions to be made, we want to start a business and we want to start a business. In a way, maybe we're scaring them. Maybe there's some further explanation, why, or if there's a chance we could step in here a little bit more together. In this regard, I would really like to ask for an explanation why we should not sharpen even for those who already have more inactive companies and how many such companies there are. If you may have this information. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u143	Mrs. Andrej Potočnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u144	Thank you for your word. I think that we can agree today that we are united that this law is moving forward against unfair business practices, against the abuse of the establishment of societies. We're all on the same shore here. However, when we listen to additional requirements or additional conditions, but if you do not accept this amendment, then we will be detained if you do not accept this amendment, then we will be against, and I think that is actually denying this first statement you had at the outset in your position. I am not speaking for all the parliamentary groups now, in general. This does not seem fair to me to those honest entrepreneurs who are doing well today and who are hiring and today pay all the contributions and today pay all the wages. Above all, this law is designed for these honest people, honest entrepreneurs. However, we want to limit, of course, unfair business practices. And on several occasions, we discussed on the committee the free economic initiative itself. Legal and regulatory services have told us, if we are to restrict, we must be extremely careful that we must show public interest. I think that the public interest is fully expressed here in this restriction. As I said at the outset, so that those who work honestly today can believe in legislation, believe in the country, that it is worth it and that it is not worth being dishonest. As far as certain specific amendments are concerned, I would like to make a concrete proposal to lower the percentage of ownership from 50 % to 25%, because you can actually manage the company by 50 % or more. With 25% in certain of these, even mathematical functions, you actually have no influence and you can't control and you can't be completely responsible. But it's true that in some mathematical functions, when you calculate it, you have an influence, but in some, you don't. As far as sanctions or fines are concerned, we also agreed in the Group of Members that they are too high and we have already reduced them on the Committee itself, but if we reduce them too much, the actual sanction does not get its purpose, is not effective enough or is not dissuasive. The penalty is designed to discourage him from breaking the law. Because what could happen? We are adopting legislation here today, but we are adopting too many sanctions, and in the end, an entrepreneur will be able to calculate that it is worth breaking the law because the sanction is so kind. We also need to pay attention to this part because sanctions have a purpose, and this is dissuasiveness that the entrepreneur will not be paid to break the law. The amendment also refers to the fact that he must be fully employed in order not to be half-employed. I'd like to give you an example. I'm opening a store d.o.o. At first, of course, we have problems, there is no traffic. For example, I'm going to be full-time, but I need more help because I can't be in the store after 12 hours or 16 hours, and I don't have enough money to pay full. And I think that I already have a big enough intention to not want to violate the employee's rights, but I want to hire someone for four hours, so I have to pay all the contributions, I have to report it to all the offices, I have a lot of administrative obstacles, but because I intend to, of course, apply it and pay it. But when this company is making me enough income if I'm satisfied with my employee, then I can also hire him full. It's true. We don't write marriage for one case. It's just for the feeling. Personally, I think that the administrative barrier is large enough if it is already employed for half-time. So much at the beginning, if I have to keep calling.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u145	Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u146	Thank you for your word, Madam President! I also assess and support this amendment of the Law on Economic Companies, because I believe that the changes are prepared in the very direction that has made us the most grieved lately. It also seems important to me that this change is also going in the direction of eliminating unfair business practices, which, unfortunately, is still very present, especially when we think about black work, non-payment of personal income, payment of personal income per hand and so on. I therefore believe that this new restriction on the establishment of economic operators, namely that the founder, the partner and the entrepreneur cannot become a person who has been sentenced at least twice in the last three years by a decision of the inspector for a misdemeanour in respect of work or work on a black basis. It is the right provision, but I do not think that it is enough will in our country to really get these people who are in violation of the legislation in this area – if I simplify the matter this way. It is indeed a modern-day slavery, as Mr Trček has found in his presentation of the position of the Group of Members, and I think so too. Look, the lack of inspectors shouldn't be the reason why we don't eliminate this severe anomaly that's been happening with us. In Maribor, for example, in large shops, where then inside various small entrepreneurs also came to the locals – and that is where exactly what I used to say is happening. I think it would be necessary to hire new inspectors. See, these inspectors would not charge the budget, but they could be paid from income that would come into the state budget with fines that they would give to these privates or those entrepreneurs who are in breach of the legislation and who are demeaning – sorry, this is about humiliating our citizens, who, for the first time, do not have years of retirement, are not insured and so on, and they receive a miserablely humiliating salary at hand. I really don't think we should be allowed in our country, and it's about time we stepped on it. And like I said, the inspectors will pay for the fines they'll pass. Then I also believe that this provision that the establishment is limited to persons who are more than 50% involved in the capital of a limited liability company which has been deleted from the Court Registry without liquidation This case I think is going in the right direction, but 50% – perhaps this could be reduced further in order to make it more effective. [[…]] The next point I would like to comment on is that the amendment of the law of ZGD makes the chain of companies more difficult. A general restriction on the establishment of a limited liability company – a person will be able to establish a new company for a period of three months. This too seems to me to be a short period of time, and it might be necessary, at least after my assessment, to extend that period. So much so far, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u147	Mr. Franz Ly has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u148	Mr President, thank you for the floor, Minister of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! We have a very demanding and extensive law ahead of us, which can mean a lot of things. This means that it regulates the environment, and this business environment, where added value is created, where everything that is needed for one normal functioning of society and the country is created. This means that there is also a source of power for the state budget, so it is important how this environment is regulated. The changes in this law certainly make this environment a little safer. Far from being abused in the future. Any changes we make in this law will be insufficient if the action of the competent services is too late or not at all. I believe that this is very important in today's era when we live somewhere in the age of electronic commerce. We know that any company can be under the supervision of both the APIS, tax administrations and other institutions at any moment. Here I see exactly how much the speech was about whether these penalties, which are specifically in this amendment of the law, mean the abandonment of certain acts, this means that these are not crimes committed, as was also said to be intentional non-payment of workers, contributions and so on, and so on, I do not know how it can happen that there are such large accumulated debts to the Tax Administration and to all other institutions or to duties that employers should carry out when I say from practice that after one week, after the end of one week, no report has been submitted, they immediately called on the phone, followed by a warning and punishment. [[…]] That means there's a lot of canceling around here. To return immediately to these specific changes. As I said, here in this case, when the so-called capital company is established, here I am thinking mainly of d. o. o., and it was in such societies that the biggest abuses occurred because this capital that had to be paid, secured and paid was EUR 7 000 500. I say so; serious business purposes for a capital company do not start and cannot be sufficient at EUR 7 000 500. This does not mean any restriction on entrepreneurial freedom. As in different countries, for example, Austria even knows this privileged d.o.o. institution means something completely different. This is a major step forward. However, these changes, which are currently being introduced, are still a considerable step in this direction, that in some ways the business environment is also being regulated in this direction, that there is less potential for abuse. I would also like to add that our legal system does not only know capital companies, but it also knows private companies, it is called d.o.o., companies with unlimited liability, and a command society, and also the so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called, and those who do not have sufficient capital as a starter, but have fair business intentions and objectives, at any time via the VEM point which is an extremely quality acquisition, can register a personal society. Of course, if we look in the register, why aren't there any more registered companies like this? Because the possibility of abuse is much less there. Why? Because in that case, the associates respond with all their assets. This is a significant difference between one option and another. That this change will contribute to reducing the possibility of chaining – it will certainly do. We cannot say this and this is also a pretty big gain, so in the complex, the changes that are now ahead of us are welcome and I support them, because I know that this is a step forward towards a better, safer business environment. But this isn't the end of the story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u149	Do you still want to discuss it? So I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u150	Dear President, Honourable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I am generally in favour of the company law itself, because most of this law is and is supposed to be a support to the economy. In our parliamentary group, we have supplemented the law with amendments because there are actual abuses in practice. Here, on Article 2, the proposal is to reduce participation in capital to 25% in the establishment of companies of entrepreneurs, which I find very reasonable. Then, where the proposed amendment seeks to make the establishment of new companies more difficult, as well as the chain of companies for entrepreneurs, because we know that there was no such restriction earlier, it is now possible for a new company to be established every three months. And I think maybe that's not enough, because the number in this is unlimited. But I am speaking from a real practical case, which is really an excess in Slovenia, where one person has a thousand 700 companies set up. I would say, indeed, this is an example of how transparency is monitored because we know that there was no transparency or control or suspicion in this very large number of companies, because we know that this has been done exclusively for the purposes of abuse. Of course, in the future we no longer want such cases of abuse. I also propose that we accept these restrictions with our amendments in order to prevent these abuses, because the success of an economy requires two segments; that is to say, after one segment to give support or to say where added value is further strengthened or some development, at the same time, if I say domestically, to cover up holes where abuses are taking place and actually there is a very large amount of money that is causing great economic and social damage to our country. I therefore propose that these amendments tabled by our Group of Members be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u151	The word has magic. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u152	In the economy, it is the responsibility of the State to ensure compliance with the rules of the game or if I speak in a parable, then I would say that the state must play the same role in the economy as the referee at the football field: be careful that all the rules are respected and that every player has the same opportunities and that the criterion is the same to all. The law that's being treated today is talking about it. In the economic system and companies, I would separate two mistakes, one by two different works; one by administrative errors, and one by conceivable crimes, if I may say so. So it is clear that every entrepreneur, every economist, can do something wrong in his work, perhaps even recklessly, unintentionally, poorly, so that there are certain penalties under which they are punished in this law. The second part, which seems much more problematic to me, is how we punish those who do certain things on purpose. For these, I think that the economy itself is the most dangerous and the economic system is the most destructive. Fair and good entrepreneurs will work with their company for years and years, and any errors will also be corrected, fines will be paid honestly. However, you have individuals who know perfectly all the holes in the law, who can excellently chain businesses and at the expense of loopholes in marriage and perhaps at the expense of inefficient countries even to forge profits. It is to this group that we must focus most intensively on the adoption of today's law and should not be a minus for this group. I think it is necessary to take the sharpest action here, even though, as I have already said today, I am for economic initiative and freedom, but there must be no mercy in these premeditated crimes and the most severe penalties must be imposed. What am I talking about specifically or very specifically? If you look at Article 2 of this Law, which is before us, it also speaks of which entrepreneurs should no longer establish a business. It states in Article 2(2), paragraph 4, that the establishment of the company should not be made by the one who received twice in three years from the Labour Inspectorate or the Financial Administration that he had been doing the wrong thing. So one particular entrepreneur had to have the Financial Administration or the Inspectorate twice – I will use the expression with my hand in marmalade – to start running the limit so that he can no longer set up a business. Moreover, this restriction was first proposed for six months and then extended to one year on the Committee. For us in New Slovenia, this is certainly a capital punishment, an absolute capital punishment, that if someone gets twice that he has a restriction on the establishment of new businesses for only one year, it is too small. Then there's another part that says that there is a limit – I'll simplify it, I'll say – that they got in criminal activity and they just shut down the company. These are also subject to a limit of one year. It's too low a sentence again. In our starting points, we have proposed that for those who intentionally commit crimes, they cheat, bring state and all honest entrepreneurs around them, punish the prohibition of setting up businesses for at least five years so that they should no longer operate on the market or in the economic system for five years. Okay, well, the department officials convinced us that it's hard to keep records for those reasons and other reasons, but maybe three years. According to common sense, we said, well, if you can't see in five years whether someone has done inappropriate things or not, then in three years we can, and then let's extend the sentence from one year, as now proposed by the coalition, the government, to three years. I think that we are not forcing anything special here, nor are we fundamentally restricting economic freedom, but in some ways we are harshly punishing those who are consciously violating the rules of the game. I emphasize, consciously. I hope this is where the coalition will go against us, and this amendment of ours will also support us. This will not penalise any honest entrepreneur, nor will anyone who works honestly be deprived; even those who have failed because of the economic crisis or other unfortunate circumstances that have worked entirely according to the rules of the game have been the economic circumstances such that the simple enterprise has failed. We also have the prescribed procedures under the law as to how the company will be shut down in accordance with the rules if it gets in trouble. For these honest people, our punishment is practically irrelevant. But this proposal of ours is going to hit the fingers, especially those who are consciously doing wrong. I would strongly like your support, because we do not have every day at our disposal to change such an important law and today we have this opportunity and this opportunity. I don't know when this law will be reopened, now it's open by the coalition, and now we have a one-time chance to step on the non-competition. Because I don't want to – I'm going to caricine again and then I'm going to finish – you know, but then we have some confrontation on the third parliamentary channel and then someone's saying it, because we've done everything we can, and some still find themselves. Then I'll remind you that maybe you didn't do everything. But I believe that today's constructive debate will still help you to find out and see that it will not be the end of the world for honest people, but that we will have an important door to all the bastards.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u153	Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u154	Thank you for your word, chairman. I had to come by again, and somehow I have to respond to this dictatorship, so that the low penalties cause the entrepreneur not to be honest. I think that's completely wrong and inappropriate logic. Personally, however, I think that entrepreneurs will be much more honest if they do something general on the basis of taxes, both with regard to taxes – and this does not fall under the Ministry of the Economy’s department on wages – but also with regard to other taxes. Secondly, what I would like to explain in some way is that Mrs Potočnik is, not least, our new president of the Committee on the Economy. After that, we have a general restriction in the new law on the establishment of societies, which means we can set up a society for three months. This does not mean for medium and large companies and this does not mean for individuals whose companies meet the conditions of having an open transaction account, what I have already stated. And one of these conditions is this job for half a month. As you yourself mentioned the case, you still, if you want to open the company, you can open it and you simply have no employees, there is no problem, problems would arise if you wanted to reopen the company in two days. That's how I understand this law. It is still possible to have a d. o. o. without an employee, but you cannot have a new d. o. o. at a shorter time than three months without having one person employed for half a month in the last three months since the establishment of that. Now, this is where our amendment is headed. For the first time, I'm going to say if someone wants to speculate, but this cost of one month's work isn't so great that they still don't play it. I kind of believe that some activity is showing this, but in this case, for full-time employment, I don't think it would be any great damage, but somehow it would exacerbate the condition. However, it is once more than what you are proposing here in this law, so we have also proposed an amendment in this direction. Secondly, to take account not only of the companies established in the last three months, but of all the companies that this person also has. In this direction, basically, two key amendments to this article, which we have proposed, and somehow I would like to call on you to think about it, are actually good amendments that will only improve this law. However, we did not make our amendments conditional on anything in our parliamentary group, and we have already said at the outset that we support the law because the law is going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u155	Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u156	Thank you, Mr. President. In the United Left, we have tabled an amendment extending the period of banning the establishment of enterprises to those who have gravely violated workers' rights, from one year to three years. This will probably be rare or one of the rare cases where we agree with our NSI colleagues. I propose this in particular because, first of all, there are some grave violations, and secondly, as we have stated in the amendment itself, the criminal convictions for the crime of working conditions and social security are extremely rare. In short, where wages or social contributions are not paid to workers on the one hand and, of course, there is a clear and serious breach of labour law, we can at least partially regulate this period in this law. I do not think that this is any blackmail, as has been said before, or just that some law, which is still quite weak and is unlikely to achieve the objectives it wants to achieve, can at least be corrected. The law, which will partially correct workers' rights or ensure that this exploitation occurs to a lesser extent, will be supported; of course, if the amendment is adopted. Besides, we don't think this marriage is good enough to save what it wants to save. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u157	Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u158	Yes, thank you for your word, Madam President! Dear Minister, distinguished Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Part of my debate will continue somehow where I ended up on the Committee on the Economy. Let me say at the outset that the law has some solutions that respond to some business practice, which are a particular feature or fashion in the Republic of Slovenia, and point out that the authors of the basic company law, namely some basic law of economic status law from the Maribor Faculty of Law, have somehow prepared the law that they have implemented from the German system so that they may have made a mistake. They were not mistaken as experts, they may have taken little account of some human history, sociology and all the other aspects of how people understand the laws that are, we can say, weak business practices in the establishment of societies, the management of societies, that is, the weak history of the Slovenian entrepreneurial spirit, the free economic initiative and so on. Also, how we understand all this, this entrepreneurship, and I must admit that it is some oscillation in a society that usually occurs in some first stage of some serious capitalism. That's why I have to lay down my weapon myself, I'd say. Admitting that laws in countries where I worked alone for several years do not work in Slovenia. It's a mentality of people, even though, believe that there are abuses in foreign countries, we can't close our eyes here, but the answer to the amendment of the law is the answer, I say, in two ways. The first is the answer to some general fashion, general practice, general bad practices, the abuse of creditors, workers, as some have explained. On the other hand, the law is in my opinion the answer that certain systems and subsystems of this country do not work. The first such system is the judicial system. Now I'm not going to talk about violations in criminal matters. It is the detection of offenders, specialised or specific offences by economic law, the ignorance of this economic law, the lack of knowledge of the abuse of economic law, the economic status law in the Slovenian judiciary, both in the prosecutorial work and in the judicial work. And unfortunately, because these systems don't work, because those perpetrators who are in charge of companies that sometimes leave creditors behind can be said without everything, as well as workers and other entities that are with them in any way in some business relationship, we need to change the law today. This is one practice in Slovenia that all systems and subsystems of this country, when they do not work, turn back to Parliament: change our law. You know, when he was without an amendment, when the basic law came into the procedure alone, I have to admit, I was one of those people who had to sleep because I said, look, I'm not going to change the law. There's no need for those lazy people who don't work, who don't have the knowledge that they should be replaced, I wouldn't change the law. You know, the economic initiative, respected colleagues and colleagues, the biggest business ideas that later proved to be in global economic operators, in global economic or trade brands that today have billions of money flows or billions of profits – it turns out that someone two-, three-times failed, for the fourth time because he insisted, managed to put that entrepreneurial idea on the market somehow and also commercially successfully through various economic status forms. In Slovenia, I see a trend that is unusual. Austria, Germany, we have a lot of economic operators, what a colleague is before – I think. that from SMC – mentioned, it is not known d.o.o., it is a company of command. There are very few of these entities, where in the company of command, one of the shareholders naturally responds with all his assets, where you do not need some kind of institutional capital, and d.o.b., where you also answer fully, with all your assets, about as in the case of S.p., by making the difference of being a legal person, being a natural person and everything else. It is interesting, Slovenian space, to present companies, how, in what kind of status societies operate, because I observe that these two companies are not known or are deliberately avoided. In the outside world, when you see one such society, you look, you can check on two, three portals, and in fact there's some risk you have, what kind of sphere you're going to work with it, in what kind of business relationship you might say, it falls, it kind of opens up to you, you have some trust. It is also interesting which segments of the economy have been most exploited — for example, if we go to chaining. We are now looking at trade services, mostly the hiring of labour, the sale of so-called leasing companies that lend them workers. At least it's in some serious manufacturing companies, companies where they produce where they work, even though it happened here. So it's mostly about service companies, etc. I will support the law myself because I have despaired that some serious reform in the field of justice will take place. Colleagues spoke of our amendments, a colleague who had previously mentioned that although we are not one of the parties who would, on the basis of making an amendment that may be unacceptable for most, at least on your own scale, reject a law that is welcome. This law is welcome; it is welcome because the answer to the fact that – here I said at the beginning, systems, subsystems, law enforcement in Slovenia do not work, they work very late, when these people do more economic damage when they land the whole species, mostly subcontractors, etc. We've had these practices, and this is capitalism that I don't want. This is this first phase of capitalism in a society that didn't have this system and that came into this system. This is one oscillation coming up. This system will calm down, people will slowly realize that running on long routes is the best one, the one that gives the greatest social security as well, and there will always be more of these, I say, stable economic systems that will not be dealing with some services tomorrow, but constantly more with some production, with some industry, with some fair trade. That's why we have to be patient, I call it. I think that the law is still an answer to what's been going on, which is why we need to support it, even though we may have some concerns about sanctioning people, whether it's six months, whether it's one year, or it's three years. It's not that important. It is important that we establish some economic status, including legal certainty. Legal security is one of those aspects where Slovenia is very weak. Because legal certainty is the first foundation in Slovenia that gives in addition to all other policies a truly stable economic environment. This means that people will start coming to Slovenia who think they are investing their capital from outside – we ourselves know that we have very little of our own capital and that Slovenia needs to open up. Before it opens, legislation must also be prepared, institutions must be aware that we are all working together and helping those who are working honestly, which are many in Slovenia, which are also international players, could also say from which international multinational companies from Slovenia will once be created. This is what I want, so let's be on the side of honest, good people, but let's not punish too many who may have failed at the first step; not because they want to cheat, but maybe their idea, their invention didn't come to the end of some innovation and maybe for the first time they didn't. They need to be encouraged, they need to be told that some have succeeded twice, for the third time. This is some response to some truly free economic initiative, as well as somehow, respected colleagues, always and everywhere I understand it. As I said at the outset, despite some shortcomings, some of my concerns, which my colleagues have already explained today, I will support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u159	Mr. Marko Ferruga has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u160	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the Minister and Secretary of State. First of all, I must apologize to the President of the National Assembly, my superior and all my colleagues and colleagues that I have not done what I should have done, that I have not read the Committee's presentation report. That's mea culpa, that's what I had to say, because I'm not usually that irresponsible, but I'm late, so I'm sorry. Now let me get back to the law we're talking about. It is a fundamental system law in the field of status law society. Here is a very important conclusion that we have already heard from all other colleagues that these solutions, which have already been said today, have helped improve the business environment in Slovenia. Why am I saying this? In the past, all my predecessors have said that all the specifics that we have in Slovenia, from those Balkan customs and all the other practices that are not in line with some real business practice, we cannot get them into law and we cannot regulate them all and regulate them in some of the paragraphs. It is, however, the fact that with these procedures that we have now taken, or with these steps that the government has so far shown by this law on companies or additions, we have the elements on which we can build and correct this unfair business practice and the wrong behaviour of certain people – not all of them – so let this be clear. It's a few specific elements that I'd like to list so that we don't forget all the other basics. This is a simplification for micro-enterprises, it makes it difficult to chain companies, a person can set up one d. o. o. over a period of three months, the basic capital of EUR 7 000 500 must be permanently available, and here it is impossible to lend to the next company and chain, then this element of employee is for half-time, which is wrong for someone, but I think it is that minimum rule. Anyone who wants to hire someone for a full-time job has that opportunity, but that's the minimum. So that's how I see it, that's the minimum that makes it possible. Clearly, then, one of the essential elements of this point of VEM, which facilitates access – what Mr Laj has already mentioned. What is also important is the new classification criteria in these companies and these single documents for better legislation and the business environment that facilitate this operation. Finally, the Institute of Internal Audit is also here, which improves some efficiency of the work of these supervisory councils, but also the newly defined offences and fines, which should be defined in some way and effectively in this law. As regards restrictions on business, one way or another can be debated. If we look from the point of view of an honest entrepreneur, from the point of view of an entrepreneur who is a beginner, it is wrong, or from the point of view of one entrepreneur who is comfortable with some other, negative, negative levers. If we also say that these criteria, which make the framework for the operation of companies, are somehow rounded, then I can imagine this as one step towards that both the government and I think we all want some active and responsible owners. It is most important that in Slovenia we somehow manage to get this responsibility and someone, I will say, an interest that companies operate in some healthy environments. By supporting this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u161	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. They'll both get the word. First, Mr. Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u162	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! This time I will be very brief, my colleague Marjana Porotatova has already said everything, from what they specifically bring the novelties of the regulation, of course, to the fact that our parliamentary group will fully support the law itself. I would like to warn you, but once again, explicitly, it seems unacceptable to me that such things are happening. This was also a novelty for me, before a fellow opposition said that someone had set up a thousand 700s and some companies, that was something amazing. In any case, there is something back here, because it seems to me that so many companies can be set up, and I see no reason why so many companies should be there as well as one reason for being able to manipulate them: not to pay a little, but to transfer the new company, workers and so on. Of course, it is essential that there is no irregularity in the area of payment: for the first time wages, for the second time also contributions, and that people then find out after so many years and so many years of work that during a period, shorter or longer, their contributions have not been paid and simply cannot go to the pension or it is only so low. That's one thing. Second, this mass chain, for which I see no other motive than to somehow fool the country and do machinations. Of course, I would also like to have strict supervision of the competent authorities or inspections and to work in accordance with the rules and to punish those where there is a clear intention to harm such a country and, more importantly, I think, controversially or unacceptablely, an individual and that individuals who are not being paid contributions and salaries are making abnormal profits and are doing harm to people. We will support this marriage in any way. We wish there would be as few violations as possible in the future, working in black, yet zero tolerance for this, with the desire that we do not reach out here into some free entrepreneurial environment and allow entrepreneurial ideas to free their way and thus good business results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u163	The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u164	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister! I will personally support this bill, I certainly see that this change of law is going in the right direction and that it will somehow improve this entrepreneurial culture in Slovenia, which is urgently needed. However, I personally see that the problem of the Slovenian economy, of Slovenian entrepreneurship, is mainly small, micro- and medium-sized enterprises elsewhere. That is why I appeal to the Minister of Economy and the Coalition to begin to amend the Law on Financial Affairs, the Law on Insolvency Procedures and Forced Cessation. Look, I personally believe that this law is a cancer of the Slovenian economy, this law has almost 500 members, which is absolutely too much. Simplify these procedures, make the matter more transparent, because only with this amendment to the Company Act, I don't think you can do what you set yourself. Indeed, Minister, I ask that you, as an experienced, come from the economy, be involved in the amendment of this law, without leaving this to the Minister of Justice alone, for there is red tape and red tape that has never done well for the economy. If you want this law, which you are now proposing, the Act on Economic Companies, which is important, to achieve that goal that you have set yourself, start working on correcting the Law on Financial Operations, the Law on Insolvency Procedures and Forced Cessation.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u165	Now I do not think anyone wants to discuss at this point, so I give the floor to the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravek Počvalšk.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u166	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! I must say, I have listened with attention to the weighty assessment of the problem, which is very difficult. I must say that we support the amendments tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups, which are to limit the establishment in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and the companies associated with the management of its assets. We do not support the extension of the deadline to limit the establishment of a company in the event of the removal of a company without the liquidation or legal conviction of the Inspectorate for work from six months or one year to three years, since the constitutionally guaranteed freedom of an enterprise initiative requires proportionate measures. The proposal for a three-year limitation is not a proportionate measure and is excessive. It is necessary to distinguish between offences and offences in this regard. Infringements have now been introduced into the new law for the first time. However, the five-year limit applies to offences since February 2014, it is said that we already have it. We do not support the reduction in ownership percentage from 50 % to 25%, which would also make it impossible for owners to establish companies with this share. This is an extremely sensitive intervention in the limited liability of a legal person who can significantly restrict the freedom of economic initiative to a passive owner of a minority shareholding due to the irresponsible part of the company's management. We do not support the fact that insurance companies would be subject to restrictions on their establishment, since insurance, like banks and DUTB, high-ranking activities and such restrictions can only make their business more difficult. We do not support the amendment of Article 10a, paragraph 5, because the proposal would not make it difficult, but rather facilitate the abuse in the area of establishment, as five shareholders with 20% ownership can be found and are not subject to the restriction of one company for three months. We do not support full-time employment conditions. We believe that the requirement for half-time employment is a sufficient administrative obstacle. We are talking about micro-enterprises at the beginning of business, so the full-time job requirement is excessive. Deliberately bankrupt. If the company goes bankrupt on purpose, it is a criminal offence which, after a legal conviction, will be limited to five years because it is a criminal offence. The establishment limit shall apply for three months unless the company is active. We don't want to limit that. We don't have the data I asked earlier on the number of straw companies that exist. But we're going to try to get this by some criteria. The law cannot cut into existing legal relations and established companies, but we have included a requirement to adjust the requirement for minimum capital. In the case of a chained company, it is said that the share capital would be drawn from the first to the second and the next. I'll talk about it later. Restricting the establishment is not the only measure against non-payments of workers for work on a non-black basis, and therefore proportionality is also needed in the case of such drastic interventions into the economic initiative we first introduce. If today one person, as Ambassador Žnidar mentions, can also set up a thousand 800 companies, which are mostly not active, it will only be possible under the new law to be one every three months. This comparison already indicates proportionality. All these companies, and these thousands of 800 will have to adapt capital in one year. So I believe that out of these thousands, 800 large majority will not be able to do business after one year. And I believe that after the adoption of this law of mass chains, there will be no more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u167	We have thus concluded the debate on this Article and the amendments that have been tabled. That is why I am putting to the debate Article 23 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss it. No, no, no. I shall then conclude the debate on this Article. And I am putting to the debate Article 43 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk about it? Not at all. Then I conclude the debate. And I am putting to the debate Article 93 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Andrej Potočnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u168	Thank you. 93rd Article of the SDS Amendment is that what we have already discussed is a reduction in the fine. As already mentioned, we agreed on the committee itself in the parliamentary group or coalition parties to ease the fines a little bit. I must say that the fines are from – to, which means that the inspection itself has the option, a discretionary right to decide, in view of the gravity of the offence, what fine it will give. Last but not least, if the sanctions themselves are too low, they are not dissuasive enough to be effective, then they lose their purpose. Therefore, we do not agree with the further reduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u169	Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u170	Thank you for your word, chairman. See, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, despite the fact that we have already reduced our sentences on the Committee, we still believe that the penalties for small and small enterprises are too high and that they could actually affect the very existence of these companies. If we look at the reduction that was adopted on the Committee, it is true that the lowest penalty has been reduced while the highest was still at the same level as before. For example, in the original bill we had fines for small businesses between 5,000 and 15,000, after the change it fell to 2.5 and 15 thousand. Our proposal is, and what is truly proportionate somehow to the proposals and penalties applicable to large and medium-sized enterprises to reduce penalties from thousands to 5,000. While for micro-enterprises our proposal is 300 to 2 000, while the existing proposal is between thousands and 6,000, which we think is absolutely too high, we are kind of expecting here and we would really like your support as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u171	Anybody else want to discuss this? Yeah. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u172	Thank you so much for saying that. Here I would just say that the point of criminal policy is that measures and penalties are educational, that they are proportionate to the gravity of the offences, but not that we have, or are illegal, penalties that are destructive to, say, small entrepreneurs and those who employ. In short, all we want to say with this proposal is that it is necessary to do so and also to prescribe penalties so that they are proportionate. In this case, you have almost as much penalties as for the worst tax evasions, which amount to EUR 5 or 10 million. Now, if this is proportionality, and you have it in the Tax Procedure Act, and if this penalty you have foreseen is proportionate, then something with perception, by assessing proportionality, by assessing the dimension of the penalty is seriously wrong. I propose that this amendment also be supported by the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u173	Mr Zdravko Restoršek, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u174	Dear Members! With the amendment of the Committee on the Economy, fines for micro-enterprises have already been reduced by almost half, in the same way as the Member State said. Now I must say that we think that we have followed this direction, but I must say that the penalties are all divided into easier and more difficult, and in this context, I hope that this will follow the principle of proportionality in spite of everything.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u175	Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Jože Tanko, do you have any more time? Yes, you do. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u176	Look, I think Fran Milkinski Ježek already said that punishment must be brought up. I suggest that you consider what is 40, 50, or more years old when it comes to your work. I think that's the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u177	Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding the debate on this Article and this amendment. I am putting to the debate Article 95 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Anyone who has time can argue. So I conclude the debate on this article and put to discussion Article 104 and the amendments of the SMC, Desus and SD. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 19th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. Agenda item – First of all, this is a proposal for a system-wide system-wide project investigation of state-of-the-art names. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this proposal, the Group of 21 Members and Members of Parliament, with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank, requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Justice Mag. Goran Klemenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u178	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The concept and the proposal of the law before you did come to the government by the Ministry of Justice, but it was created as a joint project by the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Infrastructure, the General Secretariat of the Government, the Ministry of Justice and the Government Services. The proposal for a law before you is, without being dramatic, the first attempt in the history of independent Slovenia in order, following the successful example of Iceland, which is also in the National Assembly, or Ireland, to establish a legal basis for the investigation of a bank hole for systematic investigations or audits of irregularities in the implementation of major investment projects financed by taxpayers. Practically all such projects in the past have left behind a bad taste, followed by them, were the result of criminal investigations, the Court of Auditors' audit, the activities of political or parliamentary investigative commissions. The draft law provides such a legal basis for the establishment of specific investigative or audit committees to conduct focused systematic investigations of all stages of planning and the implementation of projects of national interest in which the Republic of Slovenia is directly or indirectly involved. The Commissions will be composed of representatives of the key supervisory institutions of the State, with the responsibility of participating all those involved in the project under investigation in any way and their findings will be presented to the public as soon as possible in the form of a report. It is also worth noting that the law does not provide for the establishment of a new State authority, nor does it constitute competition for existing supervisory and investigative authorities or the institution of parliamentary investigation, but extends and maximizes the use of existing control mechanisms. In other words, this law fills the gap created by other institutional mechanisms. We all know that we have a search for criminal responsibility, that we have the Court of Auditors' audits, that we have the functioning of parliamentary investigative commissions, which we are missing, and that sometimes in large projects, which are "too big to fail", if you allow the use of this to focus on the actual situation, the actual situation that would enable the decision-making of each government to take further decisions to protect public interest. The Commissions of Inquiry, under the proposed law, shall no longer constitute and must not constitute a search for on-call offenders or a determination of criminal liability, although it may also be used under legal conditions for the purpose of determining compensation and criminal liability, of course, when the competent authorities are already in operation. Their operation, the functioning of these committees, is primarily aimed at strengthening existing control mechanisms to identify and remedy systemic deficiencies or at least limit negative effects, as proposed by law. However, the publication of the findings will ensure transparency of their operation and adequate awareness of the general public, which indirectly or directly financed these projects. That's why the law, for example, sets the maximum time for such an investigation to take place for 15 months. The purpose of the bill is to provide, through systematic investigations, quality data on the reasons, causes and backgrounds for cost inefficiencies or cost inefficiencies in the use of public funds in large infrastructure projects or projects of State importance. These are the projects proposed by law whose total value or financial burden the State exceeds 1 per cent of the budget in force of the Republic of Slovenia. Finally, let me stress that the adoption of the law under consideration is another part of the mosaic of more effective prosecutions of corruption and economic crime, which I believe we are all committed here. It's a new concept. It's a new tool. Its use will depend on people who get it in their hands and will be entrusted to them. But I would point out that if they don't get this tool, then there won't be any. There are many questions about what the concept of this law should be, and we welcome this public debate after all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u179	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u180	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice President, Minister-in-chief, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! At the end of 2013, the Anti-Corruption Commission pointed out that, due to legal restrictions, none of the authorities involved in the investigation of the Sixth Block project in TES could fully address the issues and provide a key answer, why this happened, who did something and what needs to be done in order to prevent this from happening again. We have committed coalition partners in the coalition contract to ensure an independent audit of the TES 6 project and the economy of future operations. Thus, in November 2014, the government set up a working group to prepare a draft law to carry out an independent investigation into the construction and revision of business in the construction of the Sixth TEC Block or to set up a legislative proposal to carry out independent controls on the implementation of major state, strategic and infrastructure projects in the future. The bill under consideration should allow for the rapid and comprehensive implementation of the investigation, preparation and implementation of major projects. The proposal thus lays the legal basis for the establishment of an investigative commission which will allow for a rapid and effective systemic investigation and provide the Government and the National Assembly with information on the decision to continue implementing and financing projects or to assume the obligations of the State. It is envisaged that the Government will set up an investigative commission for each case, which will carry out a system-wide investigation within a maximum of 15 months. The Commission's findings will also be presented to the public in the form of a report. It is important that the law does not provide for the establishment of a new state authority. The Special Commission of Inquiry will therefore not compete with existing procedures, but is expanding and maximising the use of existing control mechanisms. As Members and Members of the Desus Group are aware of the dimension of the issue related to the project to build the sixth block of the Termoelectrica Šostanj, we also decided at the beginning of the year to co-sign the requirement to determine the parliamentary inquiry to determine the political responsibility of the public function holders in this project. It is important to finally establish a political responsibility to investigate all irregularities and then to properly sanction them. So far, we have witnessed the rebuttal of media reports of suspected illegal behaviours investigated by various authorities, but we have not yet received a comprehensive picture of the causes, factors and reasons for these irregularities. We hope that an effective and systematic investigation will take place under this law, which will lead to epilogue as soon as possible in existing procedures. With the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia in favour of an early and effective investigation not only of the project TEŠ 6 and of the bank hole, but also of other similar projects, we will of course support the proposal of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word, Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! After a few hours of deliberation on the proposal for a fiscal rule law, we have before us the proposal for a law on systematic investigations of projects of national importance. The applicant notes that the ownership, management and control structure in the Slovenian economic area is intertwined. Effective, efficient and responsible management of capital investments, other public funds and assets requires the implementation of rules on cost-effective, careful and responsible spending. What will be today's debate? More reserved or more focused on asking questions to yourself and to the proposer? What can we expect from this law? Will he bring the expected results? The bill is the first attempt in the history of Slovenia to establish, in Iceland's successful example, a legal basis for systematic investigations into state investments in larger projects. The proposed law is the legal basis for the establishment of specific investigative committees focusing on the investigation in all the investment phases of the larger state project, i.e. in the planning of the project itself. It is indicated when and on whose initiative the Commission is established. It is determined which of the former distinguished legal, economic, audit or other experts will be elected by the President of the Commission. There are also twelve indents, of which individuals are appointed to the Commission. The Commission shall consist of at least two members in addition to the President, and the maximum number of members of the committee shall not be specified. In fact, it is possible to invite external experts to cooperate if the Commission considers that it needs experts with a certain knowledge that members do not have for a successful investigation. The Commission shall carry out a system-wide investigation in several stages and may also relate to a particular part of the project. It must complete its task within 15 months of its establishment. If the report is not prepared within this period, it may be extended by a maximum of three months. What else does this law provide? How information and documents should be obtained as to how persons are invited to interview, how to cooperate with other national authorities, how to cooperate and exchange data with foreign authorities, how to inform competent authorities and the public, how to limit conflicts of interest, how to protect classified and confidential data, and how to store data and documented material and, last but not least, criminal provisions in the event of non-compliance with the law. Respectable, the proposal for a law is, if measured by the number of articles, short in terms of objectives and objectives, very demanding. Today we will decide that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. The Social Democrats will also confirm this proposal or decision because we supported the 15 points of the Commission to prevent corruption when the members of the Senate opted for a collective protest retreat. We have signed a coalition treaty in which we commit ourselves to investigating a bank hole and to establish liability. Our efforts must go urgently towards restoring confidence in financial institutions as well as in supervisory institutions. We believe that it is necessary to carry out an independent audit of the construction of TES6 because in the document under consideration today, the greatest words are intended for this particular project, a billion and 500 million euros. However, it should be noted that the last rehabilitation of banks and the TEŠ6 project are unfortunately not the only projects that have swallowed millions of euros for citizens and citizens. Before that, there were irregularities, but people were more satisfied with their situation at the time. They had a job and a paycheck. Unfortunately, this people's satisfaction broke out at a time when we began to face the dimension of the economic and financial crisis. Because of the crisis, irregularities that have taken place in companies and banks have been on the surface. Dear ones, we like to imitate others, tell others many times how they do and do things. This bill also compares with other countries, including Iceland. In comparison with Iceland, I would like to draw attention to a recent visit by Mrs Eve Joly, a consultant to the Icelandic government to investigate the collapse of the banking system and the fight against corruption in Slovenia. She said that economic crime is difficult to investigate. Bank investigations are not completed overnight, it is necessary to be precise in reviewing credit cards and only then can you get the right result. We understood that in solving known irregularities, you must be firm, determined, and that you must be persistent and immune to threats, pressures, and other ways of influencing the decision - making of investigators. That is why, in the event of the adoption and enforcement of this law, the Social Democrats expect two in particular. First time. The final content of the law should be such as to provide the investigators, on the one hand, with an adequate legal basis for an effective but constitutionally consistent investigation work and, on the other hand, not to distort the rights of those whose actions will be investigated. This means that the rules of investigation will be clear, that there will be no doubt about the powers of those investigating and that the legal situation, rights and obligations of investigators will be clearly defined. Secondly, in the event of a clear legal regime, the work of the investigators will be carried out in a committed, objective and consistent manner with the principles of integrity. If both conditions are met, then the law will achieve its fundamental purpose, otherwise only a dead letter could remain on paper, which I believe no one wants.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u184	Mr. Vice President, hello to everyone! We have before us a law that we expect from at least 2013. One of the 15 requirements presented by Goran Klemenčič and his colleagues at the time of the resignation of the Commission's anti-corruption committee was a request under the Law on Systematic Investigations of State-level Projects, and the Government included them in the government's anti-corruption action programme in 2014. The somewhat unusual Minister of Justice, with the proposal we are considering today, meets his own request. The projects of state importance, which are the cause of the law before us, are the so-called bank hole and the TES 6 which have already been discussed in this mandate. A parliamentary investigation has also been established on both sides. In both cases, police and judicial investigations, which deal with both cases, have clearly shown that they were more than obvious as to the suspicious and unacceptable practices of those involved. We've been waiting for the results for too long. We must therefore point out here that the audit carried out by the Special Investigation Commission should also investigate and find those responsible for these crimes. The view that all major projects in Slovenia have been carried out in practice, at least partly for suspicious practices, is that we already have enough. This is pointed out by virtually all the bodies we already have, from the KPK to the Court of Auditors. If the Special Investigation Commission only finds that everything was not as it should have been, we will not achieve anything with it. In the United Left, we therefore demand that the law be drawn up in such a way that the report of the Commission will also assign a name and surname to each suspect and finding, irrespective of the function and regardless of any political option. If I also refer to the projects of national interest, which were the reason for this law. With regard to the bank hole, I would first like to mention some facts that are worth repeating over and over again. The banking crisis in Slovenia did not come out of the blue, but it was the result of the world capitalist crisis, the largest since World War II. This crisis has been deeper and longer with us and across southern Europe than it could have been, and this is due to the functioning of the euro area, which benefits the centre's countries at the expense of the periphery. The crisis could not have been avoided by Slovenia, but it could have been mitigated if the government had implemented anti-cyclical measures before the crisis and if the government that ruled during the crisis had recapitalised banks in due time. You can read more about this in the Bank of Slovenia report on the causes of the capital deficit. I'm mentioning all this because we need to be aware of what this investigation can and will not reveal. The structural causes of the crisis are a matter of scientific analysis, while the investigation can only show whether individuals who have made political and business decisions have made economic and legal decisions. In short, we do not expect much from searching through credit maps, which the government obviously relies on, but we are particularly interested in the decisions of the Government and Benke Slovenije in autumn and winter 2013 regarding bank rehabilitation. This recovery has been suspicious since the beginning. Let's take a look at some data. Firstly, the difference in the assessment of the bank's capital deficit following the two assessment methods used was about 45%. For comparison in Spain, where similar stress tests were carried out in 2012, there was virtually no difference, which is normal because the method from below serves only to check and calibration or repair the method from above. Of course, 45% is no calibration, but a sign that there is something very wrong with the assessment. The methodology of the asset quality review, which showed negative capital in NLB and NKBM, although a few months earlier the review in accordance with accounting standards showed positive capital, was also never explained. On this basis, small shareholders have been disbanded. Both stress tests in 2013 and 2014 used extremely strict assumptions about economic trends in Slovenia, although newer, more encouraging data and so-called dynamic method were available. So far, all these procedures have been investigated and assessed only by the Government and Banka Slovenije, which is why the audit is necessary. I think there was something wrong here, because it's getting worse. Today our banks are too capitalized. NLB had 22.7% capital adequacy and NKBM had 25.8%. By comparison, Raiffeisen International from Austria promises to absorb capital adequacy from 10% to 12% by 2017. Therefore, in the United Left, we expect the investigation that will be carried out under this law to find the culprits for these decisions, whether it be business or political. We expect the same in the case of TEŠ 6. Political responsibility is already recognised by the parliamentary investigative commission requested in the United Left. In doing so, we expect that the findings to be made by the Commission of Inquiry, together with the conclusions to be reached by the special investigative group of the Government, will provide a clear overview of all involved, and that it will be clear at last who, when and where, through political ties and pressures, has reached the end of the project and that the cost of its implementation from the initially estimated 600 million euros has increased to astronomical 1.4 billion euros. That we urgently need a legal basis that will allow for an independent forensic investigation, we have been alerted in the United Left since day one. We therefore welcome the response of the Government, which established the working group last November, and the draft law prepared by this working group is being discussed today. The working group was composed of representatives of the Cabinet of the President of the Government, the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Government's Law Service, and the Government's decision was also open to the participation of external experts, representatives of the Court of Auditors, the KPK and other state bodies. Given that the proposed law also aims to ensure transparency in investigative projects, we are interested here in who these external experts were and in which representatives of the Court of Auditors and the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption or other bodies participated in the drafting of the law. But we also have some problems with just the content of the bill. The biggest and very obvious problem that law enforcement authorities have been alerting since the start of these projects investigations is that banks and others do not want to cooperate and do not wish to provide them with the required documentation, which makes it impossible for them to carry out investigations effectively. We therefore wonder how the Government intends to force these same banks to provide documentation that they do not wish to provide to the National Investigation Office to this special government commission. We also wonder whether it is appropriate to propose a very narrow circle of people for the President of the Commission: former Constitutional Judges, former Supreme Judges, former Members of the Court of Auditors, former members of the Bank of Slovenia Council, former members of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. This circle is so narrow that we can count potential candidates almost to the fingers of one hand, even if we take into account the legal restrictions on membership. At this point, I could point out that this article could contain names and surnames, but it would be no longer. Nor do the provisions that define when a project of national importance is at all appropriate to us. They should be determined so that they can investigate all the projects at issue and not only those whose value exceeds 1% of the national budget. We believe that the Special Commission could also deal with projects that did not exceed these poor €90 million, and it is also clear that there are suspicions of corruption. You don't have to have a lot of imagination to find out that this is what I'm aiming at, say, at what kind of public health invitation. There was a lot of talk in such projects, and no result. In our view, therefore, the Commission set up under this law must not be only a commission to determine political responsibility and cannot be a commission that is almost identical to the parliamentary inquiry as to its powers and modalities. Further consideration of the law will also need to consider appropriate solutions for the establishment of a commission. If we want all the projects in question to be really investigated, it is necessary to ensure that the establishment of such a commission does not fall within the exclusive competence of the Government. As a result of such a provision, something fast can happen to us that the government will launch a project that will be brought to an end within four years so far that it will no longer be paid to stop it. We've seen this before, and we've heard this phrase several times, even in the case of TER 6. We are therefore proposing that it be clearly determined that the Government should establish a special group if, for example, one third of Members so require. There is a lack of a safeguard that prevents the government from setting up a commission for those projects in which it is naturally involved. This is just a few of the concerns and considerations about the law before us, which, of course, is being corrected in the next phase of the legislative process and can also be improved. We certainly do not want to adopt a law to investigate all projects that are complicated by suspicions of corruption and illegality, and then the findings of this special commission would be similar to those of all the Commission's major reports on anti-corruption in cases where important representatives of the political options involved, as well as the judgments of the courts. We do not, therefore, want to see the calvaries already seen, the endless trials, the perceptions of political motivation and the perceptions of the impartiality of those involved in such commissions. In the United Left, we will support the proposal for a law on systematic investigations of projects of State importance in the first reading. We expect the government and the coalition to take further account of our proposals and comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u185	The New Slovenia Group of Members - Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u186	Dear President, Honourable Minister, colleague and colleague! The reason for the drafting of this new law is, according to the Government's explanation, the Commission's proposal to prevent corruption in order to take measures to prevent systemic corruption. The Commission has proposed the establishment of legal and factual grounds for carrying out investigations into projects of national interest. As an example of such projects, TEŠ 6 and a bank hole are listed, where numerous irregularities and illegalities are expected to occur. The purpose of the investigation is to identify the causes of irregularities, identify key players, identify persons against whom action can be taken in both civil and criminal proceedings and identify measures to prevent similar acts in the future. So, look for irregularities and injustices for the past and prepare improvements to legislation for the future. The final result of the investigations cannot and must not only be the preparation of proposals to improve legislation but also concrete activities to identify past acts and injustices. Therefore, specific complaints against specific persons for specific acts, and also the finding of a specific level of injury by an individual if the injury has no sign of a crime. Therefore, the specific basis for a civil action which the State will be able to impose on individuals by virtue of its legal representatives. In our opinion, however, a more acceptable solution would be to investigate projects of State importance than those of countries with continental law, including Austria. This is the establishment of a Commission for an individual project with every decision of the Government. In such cases, the Government shall set out on a case-by-case basis the specific tasks of the Commission, appropriate to the content to be investigated by the Commission. With regard to the content of the proposal under consideration today, they would first point to the shortcomings in the definition of the objectives and purposes of this Act in Articles 2 and 3. These include the identification of stakeholders and the background for incorrect, reckless and ineffective planning and implementation of the project. However, it is essential, and these are the abuses and illegalities that have undoubtedly been found in such projects and will be identified by the Commission in its work. The added value of such systematic investigations would be for the Commission to inform the investigation and prosecution authorities of such findings and thus assist the authorities in pursuing a comprehensive investigation of offences in carrying out a separate project of national importance. In addition, such a commission would fully and in one place collect data on the damage to public resources in a particular project and thus offer assistance in collecting data and evidence for the submission of relevant civil actions against the individuals involved. As far as the appointment of the Commission is concerned, we Christian Democrats are convinced that there is no way that a former official from any institution can act as President. We know that Slovenia is a small space, that individual officials have mainly cycled through several functions in the past period and that our space is intertwined with related and friendly relationships. This may be a reason for biased work on the committee. Such work can only be entrusted to an official, we think to an active official who is unburdened with the past or with a concrete project. It is also important that the law explicitly defines the responsibility of each individual member of the commission for its work, both criminal and civil liability. Members of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats The proposal for a law on systematic investigations of projects of State importance in the form and content, as is now included in the parliamentary procedure, will not be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u187	The text is given by the Alliance of Allies of Alenka Bratušek, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u188	Your Honor! In fact, we have before us the proposal for a law on systematic investigations on a project of State importance, which already speaks in the title of one matter which, in fact, no Member can afford in this reference to say that you really would not want to do something like that. Oh, yeah. But when you read the bill, in fact, at least I personally and in our parliamentary group started to pinch and ask ourselves what is actually in front of us. And if you will be very precise and careful – given that I listened to the marks on the right yesterday, that some Members who do not read the texts and the laws and of course all the documents and that we do not understand, of course today's debate is very important, especially since it is already in the opening presentations that it is more or less clear that government representatives are the right Members who represent the coalition are said to be the government, more or less just welcoming and saying that such a law must be supported, because it is absolutely necessary to get results. On the other hand, they did not say and specifically point out some very serious inconsistencies, and last but not least, I shudder that this is a big slap in the ass to the whole system, both to the judicial, repressive and not least to the other so-called independent authorities, who are in charge of carrying out certain tasks under law. I am afraid that even if such a law is indeed going to be changed in all three readings, probably a little bit, in the end, we will also have a serious problem, because, as the KPK has happened, we have all the earlier things that we really wanted at the KPK, and we will eventually get an organ that no one will really even hope to propose to end, because then it will be understood that we are against the search for all the illegal things that we actually believe to be and so on. Now let's get to the point. Indeed, in the previous term, it was in fact, as we have heard today, that this government has committed itself to carrying out an investigation into certain important state projects, it has been very clear that it will be a so-called forensic investigation that will have to be carried out both on TEM 6 and on the banking system itself, which was more or less clear that it is problematic, and that it is necessary to find out who is responsible and so on. What people really want is what is expected at some point in time. It is true that we are all disappointed that these procedures are all going too slowly, but at the same time, especially the legal profession, the following sentence is very clear. You can't explain at the time of the investigation what you're doing, because you have to do an investigation first to get the results, and only in the end, when you have findings, can you tell me what you're doing. In this empty time or in this vacuum, only the media can in some way imagine what is really happening in the background. What's the real problem? One who has truly read this law will be able to see that we have a problem because there are some things in conflict. If you look, we have passed the law on SDH and in this law in Chapter 6, including practically even Chapter 6 entitled Measures to strengthen integrity and accountability and to limit the risks of corruption, conflicts of interest and misuse of internal information in managing the investment of the country, very clearly defined what is really and who is doing what. [[…]] Who was then the writer of this paragraph and this chapter? Today's Minister, Mr. Klemenčič. Since he had already assessed and proposed that these things should be very clearly defined, which means that he also gave very clear instruments in order to be able to carry out certain investigations. More. This Article, which provides for the supervision of the Court of Auditors with the power to carry out audits in companies where SDH has a direct or indirect majority of voting rights. Thus, we have made it very clear that this will be the Court of Auditors, which will actually do all this. Finally, we have law enforcement agencies, the police, the prosecution, and, last but not least, the judiciary, who really know what they really need to do by law and stop. We also have in particular within the NPU police, which is actually established to do or investigate special difficult cases or blah blah blah, that I do not say everything you already know. More. We have established even the KPK in this country, which will ensure that all the officials involved in certain projects, and so on, are under constant control on the one hand as regards assets, and, of course, this KPK will later be transferred from the classic KPK, which is just, I will say, preventive action, has already taken over the control function and has already taken over the last finding of irregularities by issuing decisions and so on. More importantly, it appears today that certain procedures due to indiscretion, speed and great intrusion after the search for injustices have been so badly written that in fact today some proceedings fall one by one in a court of law. I'm afraid this desire and enthusiasm with this law is so written that those who really read this law will see that there are huge holes here. Let us go in line, and first, let us go to Article 5, the third section, where you will be able to see very clearly who can actually make up this commission. And you'll see that one very interesting information: it always says "former" in front of every line. Not the present, the former! Do you know what that means? That means that if you're president of the Court of Auditors today, you're not good enough to investigate a certain matter, but if you're former, you're qualified for it. I'm afraid there's something here that's not going to work out. I've given the Court of Auditors a case, but you have all the possible suggestions on who can make up everything. There's also something important that's interesting about the whole thing. I've been listening all this morning from you, some of my colleagues, when I asked you if you were serious about supporting such a marriage. Of course, I asked mostly more representatives of the coalition than the opposition. Everyone answered me more or less, yes, of course, because that's a good law. I said, "Did you read it?" You know what it says in there? No, what, because this has to be investigated, this has to be done and the point is, of course, because they have it in Ireland. [[…]] I hope that you have read what they had in Ireland, how they drew up the matter and, above all, how the matter worked. Comparatively, if you will see and if you compare only what is written today and in the very explanation already referred to in the law by the authors of this text, you will see that there is more or less clear that, for the first time, they have done this because they are small, because there are little hope that you know how many inhabitants in Ireland; 330,000 per round, that is about as much as Ljubljana, and it is very likely that everyone or very much knows each other – at least those who circle and reigned for years and years and made up a story. [[…]] This is, you know, how much, this is 16% of the Republic of Slovenia. And now what is important is that in the end this commission has reported to Parliament in Ireland. I'm sorry, Parliament! And not to the government. The government has executive power. The government is the one with the whole machine and, last but not least, inside this apparatus are all those who have contributed and botched all the wrong projects. Now the government will investigate itself and its apparatus and report to itself and finally even propose, I will say certain measures. It's just that these two don't go together. It's not working! What is still important in the whole matter is that if we look very carefully, it is determined who can propose the subject matter. It can practically be done by all, even the State Council, which is housed in this house, only parliament cannot do so. It's just not Parliament. Why? By reason of the fact that Parliament has its own investigative commission. You will not believe this, but the rules of procedure of the investigative commission, which is very short, in the National Assembly very precisely and significantly define all tasks more clearly than this whole law for this commission. Don't joke! What is even more important than that is that we are actually establishing a parallel investigative system within the country, because in fact they find that in some ways some do not want to cooperate. What's interesting about this is that you don't even know who's investigating who. This commission will be able to call someone in for questioning, but the person who's called in for questioning will never know if he's an investigator, whether he's a witness or even a suspect by default. No status. And finally, who is the appellate body when this decision or whatever else is to be issued at the end of this investigation? KPK. KPK! No court, no, no, you don't have anything to go to court. You have to go to KPK. And first, you have to even put the procedure through there and then maybe sometimes you come into the court system, which is legitimate today. We have a serious problem because we're dealing with things the wrong way. I'm afraid we're going to make this law so complicated that we won't even get to the door of what we're going to investigate. This is not about reading to the minister today, because someone would like to — and we are likely to hear it today that someone does not want to investigate. That someone doesn't want an investigation because they must be involved. Look, I haven't even been in the T.E.S. yet, let alone have something to do with who! For a bank hole, excuse me, I am also very serious about who is involved in the story, because, last but not least in the final phase, also from our money, Members sitting in here, money goes out and from all taxpayers to understand each other. And we may be interested in the final stage of what happened. We must be interested! Frankly, at first, I thought, when I first heard of such a committee, that it was really a committee that the government needed for strategic projects, so that it would be easier to make decisions and in some way need such a blitz commission that would go somewhere and quickly review and somehow prepare all the arguments and analyses – what we always had in the National Assembly when the minister said: yes, okay, but now I have to order the study, but you know, to see what was going on and so on, and then we waited 4, 5, 6 months, then the government fell in between, and then, of course, we had a new government and then, of course, we didn't even know whether it was finished or not, but the fact that this minister was not doing it at all and then we were still there, where we were half a year ago. I thought we needed this committee to do that. No! No! Only when I read it did I realize that we're actually working a parallel judicial system. We're going to be someone, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the time we have a new election, maybe they'll turn out. In the meantime, only this committee will deal with this. And now, watch out! The government that will use this as a political tool – I fear, as an opposition, I have every right to doubt this and doubt that this is meant to do so. And in the end, the KPK, which we do know how they end their business. Whether it's a fine or you're in the end where everyone ends up. Independence is the purpose of this commission, they tell me in this document. Independence, remember. How could this commission, if appointed by the government, give clear instructions on what to do, give conditions, money and everything else, direct it, and eventually the government will also get this report on the table — not parliament! Parliament is excluded from this procedure. In the end, it can be informative, because you know, I've come by the minister, the minister, depending on what investigation is going to take place, and that will be the result of that. In short, I apologize, this document is not ripe for further discussion. I'm sorry, but you're gonna have to take the coalition seriously today. I have heard from these benches at the beginning of the mandate that this mandate will be special after the legislative authority is the legislative authority and the executive power. And a hand on my heart, I sat there and smiled a little, because I said whether it was really so naive or it was really meant and it would be done that way. The legislature, first of all, and the coalition, must supervise its own. Excuse me, this document leads to the government overseeing us.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u189	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, for her mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u190	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We have a law before us that regulates the matter that is new to our legal system. This is a new, different approach and a way to detect and prevent corruption in the political and economic sphere and represents one of the extremely important measures and counter-action processes of corruption, including the so-called entanglement of a country by which certain businesses with types of manipulation and illegal actions have an impact on the policy to create normative frameworks that create certain benefits and competitive advantage for these companies over others. What does this law bring, and why is it needed? This law lays down the legal basis for enabling mutual cooperation to date more or less between isolated existing supervisory and investigative authorities, which are limited in their procedures to powers and tasks, and in practice for certain state investment projects, such as the construction of the TES 6 block or the bank hole, have proved to be flawed and incomplete in the comprehensive disclosure of suspected irregularities and non-economics and the identification of the causes and factors for them, which have also been resounded by the media. It is a matter of making it possible to carry out a systematic investigation and audit of major state projects in a comprehensive manner and to assess, within one year or no later than 15 months plus 3, both in terms of the cost-effectiveness and regularity of the planning, decision-making and implementation of the project as well as the prevention of negative consequences for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The subject matter of the investigation is large state-of-the-art projects where there is serious doubt as to the regularity, economy, whether the initial or further investment of the project is appropriate. The investigation or audit will be carried out by an investigative commission whose members will be from supervisory authorities or other public sector entities, as well as other private sector experts. It is important that membership is voluntary, meaning that public authorities such as Banka Slovenije may refuse membership if they consider that cooperation would affect impartiality, the independence of their original tasks or would prejudice the interests of the primary procedure. The Commission will not identify individual criminal liability, but in the event that infringements are detected during the course of the investigation, it will respond appropriately and give incentives to the competent institutions to carry out their procedures. The Commission will be able to cooperate with other national supervisory authorities, financial investigation bodies, for taxes, to prevent money laundering, and will be able to obtain data and documentation which the Authority may also reject for reasons of reason. The Commission may invite and conduct interviews with individuals who do not have the status of the examiner or the interrogator, but witnesses, which means that they may reject the answers to certain questions and the interview must be answered. Since the Commission is established by the Government, the question of the political motivation and interrelationship of this Commission is rightly raised, but by law the Commission is independent, independent and not bound by guidelines, guidance from the Government or other bodies, and the Government does not have the power to resolve an investigation into a particular matter, since it would interfere with the independence and independence of the Commission. It is therefore a matter of creating an autonomous and independent expert commission, and how effective it will be, it will show time. A very important factor in following the rule of law and limiting corruption is also the transparency of the work of the commission of inquiry, which is ensured through the permanent publication of the report on the government's website. The question is whether existing supervisory institutions are not effective enough to adopt this law and if they are not, why should we not change the competence of existing institutions? Where, then, is the added value brought about by this law? When it comes to large investment state projects that exceed one percent of GDP in Slovenia, which may affect the stability and efficiency of the financial system of the country, and there is a suspicion of the correctness and cost-effectiveness of spending this money, at any stage of the project, it is right that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as a good and prudent owner, is watching over these projects and in such cases activates the ad hoc investigative commission. So a group of experts from different fields and with a wide range of knowledge that can be fully integrated in one place with the exchange of mutual knowledge and the common objective of a much more extensive and efficient investigation and revision of business than can be carried out to a limited extent by individual institutions. For example, the Court of Auditors may carry out an audit by law only for the users of public funds or for the auditor himself, but it does not apply to other stakeholders who have had a significant impact on the decision to build the TES6 block. These are private companies and individuals who have participated in all stages of the preparation and implementation of the project. Moreover, it does not have the power to carry out inquiries and to obtain notices and documentation from other persons who have cooperated after this project and individuals who are not employed in the audited companies at the time of the audit. Nor can they interview and request information from persons who are not responsible at the time of the audit, but in the case of TEM 6, many decisions were taken outside TES and HSE on the basis of non-disclosure, unlawful influences in corporate authorities, enforcement and legislative bodies. It is therefore not possible to expect from this limited audit of the Court of Auditors that their findings will allow for the full disclosure of the reasons for the state of the project and the reasons for the ineffective and unsuccessful corporate and ownership control of the implementation of the TEM 6 block project. The adoption of this law establishes an interdisciplinary team composed of experts from different fields, and together they work together to resolve the common problem of specific expertise. This will make it easier to explore and identify a comprehensive picture of the actual situation, assess procedural irregularities, cost inefficiencies of the project, fail to control the financing of the company and identify backgrounds, and the reasons for failing to control the financing and management of projects, e.g. As mentioned, in the case of the construction of the TES 6 block, and exceptional non-economic incentives to the taxpayers. The law will strengthen the supervisory mechanism, which will also act preventively and in future it will be easier to prevent the occurrence of such cases as TEM 6: for example. The second railway track, third development axis, electronic tolling, investments in health etc.The legal basis is to find proposals for a system to improve the implementation of a specific project, but can also propose legislative changes and measures to prevent systemic, procedural and cost irregularities of future major projects. [[…]] In identifying bad business practices and finding solutions to eliminate harmful methods of political-economic interplay and interference, it is of paramount importance that the joint action of experts of different disciplines can, in a preventive sense, become a transdisciplinary team that together exceeds the conceptual and methodological limits of its disciplines and find new solutions to problems beyond existing ones. This is a process that poses a major challenge and, comparatively, with the countries of Ireland, Iceland, Great Britain, Austria, we can see that the responsible executive branches of authorities are somehow deciding on such steps. The proposed law provides the basis for us to build on Iceland and Ireland's existing system, to establish control mechanisms to deal with suspicious and non-economic major state projects, to identify and identify key actors, and not least to prevent the causes or patterns of network operations that, from political-clientistic or private interests, with the non-economic use of public money to the detriment of taxpayers, take advantage of opportunities to gain private profits and benefits. If we fail to uncover the way in which TES 6 works and identify the lobby they have led, there is a major recurring danger. The bill represents a major step towards preventing systemic corruption, characterised by the corruption of political officials and the impact of economic enterprises on political decisions, resulting in adjusted legislation, the capture of public money flows and public sectors of the economy. The functioning of the administrative and political apparatus becomes dependent on political authorities, which also control key segments of the economic system. As a response to increasing systemic corruption, there is in practice a clear lack of tools to reduce or even prevent it, and in view of the existing political-economic intertwined mechanisms of informal networks. By adopting the proposed law, the legal basis for greater preventive action and accession to systemic corruption will be established, the establishment of an investigative commission will strengthen the country's supervisory functions and will also improve the relationship of authorities with supervisory authorities. However, the SMC has already committed itself to the objective of comprehensive investigation and prevention of the corruption system in the pre-election period. That is why the bill has our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u191	The text is given by the SDS Group of Members, for which Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u192	Thank you very much. This law evidently aroused different feelings when we received it. The leader of the ZaAB Group said they were pinching. I could congratulate some on reading the badge because they read the government’s explanation, but we found it a little different. Let's see. If Jože Tanko had given me this law. 4. 2015, of course, I would reject him and tell him that his first April joke failed. Now that I've looked at this law, but this law was not the 1st of April, it was signed by the Minister, the Secretary-General of the Government, a whole bunch of these officials, and then you see that it's really about the law you have to deal with, and you don't know where to start. I've had about that kind of feeling. The review of the first chapter or chapter on the price of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the law reminds me of the time of 2002, 2003, about that period. At that time, there were middle - aged boys in the vicinity of Metalka who did not make any smart police careers and decided that it would be wise and good to set up an organ. And then they set up a KPK in that original image with abnormal powers, because no one has the same powers as our KPK. This time is obviously repeated in some way, 2015 is an obvious time when some are actually preparing for extra earnings or for a time when they will not meet these jobs or when they will be retired. In fact, they sent us a law that provides for, so the Law on Systemic Investigations of Projects of State Interest – officially. And what this law entails — you will not believe — a new commission of inquiry! Commissions of inquiry that will have no powers. What will these investigative commissions be able to do? So they'll be their own purpose. If we are talking about projects of state importance that need to be investigated, and if anything is wrong in that country, we have 8,000 police officers, 200 prosecutors, 950 judges and thousands of judges in this country. Then we have investigative commissions in this National Assembly that we can establish an unlimited number. Then we have, in comparison, something has to be said that Ireland has closed everything for five years after the first bank holes. [[…]] They've done everything I've done now, the police, the judiciary, the D.A., everything in prison is already there, of course we don't have it. We still have inspection services, we have KPK, we have the Court of Auditors, we have the Audit Commission, the Bank of Slovenia world, the State Attorney's Office, the Financial Administration, you know what they are there, more than armies. We still have the Anti-Money Laundering Office, the Budget Authority and dozens of other bodies, so why do we still need government investigative commissions? [[…]] Government investigative committees, you'll finally see that they don't have any authority. Look what's particularly interesting. The law specifies exactly who the chairman of such a government commission can be. Look at these gentlemen: former Constitutional Judges, former Supreme Judges, former Supreme Prosecutors, former accounting judges, former members of the Bank of Slovenia world, former members of the KPK and former members of the State Audit Commission. So, all those who today have all the powers to solve the problems of this country and to solve whatever would be wrong with this kind of state investment; but, they are all exes. So it's about time they retire or they won't do it anymore. So they made a marriage to serve, and what else? See, the law still accurately stipulates who may be members of such committees; this is an interesting matter at all. Let us list them: the members of the Court of Auditors — those who will then be present; now they are members; they were former; and now they are present. Members of the KPK may then, of course, be members of the Bank of Slovenia, of the Bank of Slovenia, of course, current members of the State Audit Commission, state prosecutors, lawyers, criminals may be inside, members of the Financial Administration may, then may be members of the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, a member of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Control of Budget and others. Yeah, they're all paid for it! They are paid to go to work and solve all the problems that this marriage is supposed to solve! So they're saving whatever would be wrong with state-owned big investments. They go to chess for that reason and have all the powers. Now we're going to put them on some government committee, especially paying them to mix the luft – let's do it at home. The Commission shall establish a government. That's great. Parliament, what do you care? Nothing. Didn't you say in the SMC that you would strictly separate what Jani was talking about? But be careful, the commission decides as a college body. Damn, that reminds me. Eight-year-old without a rudder once said that. Isn't that what we said? They decide as a college body. You can imagine them sitting there at a large table, just like they did down here in the Tomšič Round Hall, and they're going to raise their hand in college — whether they don't. Yeah, that's what the law says. The government provides funding for them and the law will not have financial effects. You've got to be a great artist so you can do it! The Commission is using ZUP in its work, this is called the Administrative Procedure Act. I don't know if this submission will then be to the Administrative Court – Judge, you will know if that means it. I don't know if it means anything. I don't think it matters any of this. They shall not be able to participate in the commission of a convicted person. Bravo! That's good. But those who have violated the Constitution, the law and human rights can. But we're not good? We're good! Contractual engagement of external associates is envisaged. Read: friends, acquaintances and those who need money. The deadline for completion of their work is 15 months. They can be extended by three months. And in 18 months, they have to end it. Article 10, point 6 provides for a cash prize for their work after the end of work. Those who are retired and those who are outside are likely to make money. But those who are in a regular working relationship will be paid twice. That's great! The country needs to be milked. That's right, that's how you do it! The final report will be published in the Official Journal and then will happen — what? Nothing. Whatever these gentlemen write in the final report, what will be the result? Nothing! We'll read it in the Official Journal. What kind of sanctions? Where the hell did you get that? It's not gonna work. Who and how does he provide the data? That's even interesting. All state authorities must provide all data. Didn't you squeeze SMC here a few months ago that Banka Slovenije didn't? Was it like that? Why do you now propose: all state authorities have all the data? The police must also provide all the data, only those obtained by wiretaps and so on can explain in writing why they will not give it. This is the same for the prosecution, which is a state authority, which must give all the data, including those obtained by the police, to listen so further, but can explain in writing that it will not give them. I wonder if the police will give you a hearing?Oh, my God! Is anyone crazy or what you'd say? Either someone doesn't know the constitution or something — the one we should do the most. They should also give confidential information. They should also provide personal information. Can you imagine? They should also provide personal information. The banks have to give all the information, too, it says. But last time you pressed the button, you didn't have to. What is it now? Exceptions are data that would be classified under European banking rules. Doctors, psychologists and lawyers are exceptions. There you can deposit a crime, if necessary, with a lawyer. The authorities may reject, i.e. these authorities, including the police, the prosecution, may refuse the transmission of data whose transmission would significantly make it difficult for them to carry out their tasks. What, though, has made the performance of the tasks significantly more difficult? Who's gonna judge? If the chief of police says so, I'm not going to give you any information about it, because it would significantly jeopardize the effective functioning of the police. Then what? What happens next? Nothing's gonna happen. The same could be done by the D.A. And what's gonna happen? Nothing's gonna happen. Let's move on. The commission's work. Those invited before the committee have witness status. The Lord in front of me, Mr Verbich, said: therefore I will not have to speak. Nice. A witness who doesn't speak can be called a cactus. Maybe it's a chrysanthemum. You can, can't you? What are you gonna do with a witness if he doesn't talk! The purpose of conversations with individuals is not to determine their personal responsibility. Then why did they come there? Yeah, well, what did they come for before this committee if it wasn't a determination of responsibility? And interestingly enough, all of these members, ten, fifteen, will also be able to act alone. Witnesses and everyone else will also be invited to an individual conversation in private. That'll be possible, too. That's what the law says. KPK is a criminal organ. Well, that's, okay. [[Incomprehensible]] What crimes can you commit if you're a witness? You don't have to talk, you come over there and you look at that investigator, and you laugh at him a little bit, and then you go home. Then what are you gonna do there? Penal provisions. Non-transfer of data to the Commission – €10 000 for the responsible person. Up to ten thousand euros to be exact, so you won't say I'm doing too much. I wonder how Fisher's gonna pay for this or Funk when he says he won't listen. Is he gonna pay the fine or what? Or any other information. Well, let us now put together, to conclude, one imaginary commission that will operate at the end of 2016 under this law. See, Prime Minister Lev Mesečnik will appoint a commission to determine the liability of the third bank hole and recapitalisation in 2017. The President of the Commission will be lawyer Goran Klemenčič, who has all the references of an expert, led the KPK, was a minister, was not legally convicted, but was not a condition for appointment. The first deputy, his assistant, will be the retired Attorney General, the former, Zvonko Fischer, who has all the references, was a constitutional judge, he was a general prosecutor, he was not legally convicted, that he violated human rights, the constitution and the laws, and there is no condition for such appointment. Second Vice-President, retired President of the Supreme Court Branko Maslesha – he has all the references, he was a supreme judge, he was President of the Supreme Court, he is not legally convicted of violating human rights, the Constitution and the laws, but he is not a condition for appointment to this group. Members of the group could then be Dr Igor Soltes, he has all the references, even the pedigree is good for back, he is a doctor of science, he was a European Member. Another member, Rok Praprotnik, has all the references, was a member of the KPK, but today the rag hides bank holes in the Ljubljana Bank, but has references, he was a member of the KPK. Drago Kos, he has all the references, he's doing something like Rock Protector for big money already today. Barbara Zląbec, a lawyer, has all the conditions, she was a senior state's attorney. Andrej Frlinc, retired, has all the conditions, was the Attorney General. Bojan Potočnik, retired, has all the conditions, he was the Director General of the Police. All those mentioned and others therefore had all the official powers, ladies and gentlemen, to carry out these tasks, which they were supposed to perform under this law. What are they gonna do now? I don't know. Well, let's take a look at this group's final report. Such a group with the signature of Mr Klemenčič's head of inquiry could write as follows: This was a matter of subjective and objective circumstances of recapitalisation of the banking system which led to the bank hole in 2017. They were strong negative financial factors; they were poor readiness of our banks; control mechanisms did not respond in time; reservations were not sufficient; management was not qualified enough; the owner, that is, the country, did not know all the risks that were coming in time. We recommend amendments to the legislation, recommend that the police, the prosecution and the judiciary carry out their tasks as soon as possible. End of report. The report sent to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on 200 pages has 500 attachments. An amount of EUR 0.8 million has been paid to the President, the Vice-President and the members of the Commission. Yeah, you gotta pay the experts, damn it! What did you think they were gonna do for free? And then what happens? You think someone in the government would read this report? Then what's in it for you? It wouldn't make any difference. There would be a time for the appointment of a new commission. Ladies and gentlemen, don't mess with this country. We won't support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u193	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members, followed by a general debate between Members and Members. Mr Mag has the floor to propose. Goran Klemenčič. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u194	Thank you very much. I listened with interest to the debaters or to a presentation of the opinions of the groups. As I have frankly said there at the outset, it is a sincere attempt to move forward and we have welcomed even the SDS proposal from the College of Presidents that there is a general debate, that before the law goes before the committees, we also hear the opinion of this assembly and we will review these matters. Because the law that was in existence opened up a number of questions for us. I will answer those that you have touched in the debate. I will not respond to Mr Gorenak's ridiculous performance, but I must comment on him. Mr Gorenak told the day before yesterday at the meeting of the Justice Committee when we were considering a report from the specialised state prosecutor's office that he was not asking questions, but he wanted to say something because he wanted this to be recorded, he heard that when someone later studied the history of parliamentaryism, it would be possible to see who had a position. Mr. Gorenak, I hope this magnetogram of your performance today will be part of this history. Why? Because you are talking about an extremely serious matter in a way that is under-appreciative to the proposer, in the final stage also to your colleagues and colleagues. Why do I say that? I'm sure the bill isn't perfect. Far from it, because it's, as it were, something new. In this national assembly, not to talk about the media and not to talk about the profession, it has been said so many times how they have it in Iceland. The day before yesterday, you stood there, and you said that, and then you quoted Joly. Then we try to do something like that, talk to people from Iceland, try to adjust their law to our system and put it on the table. We are not just looking at the Icelanders, we are looking at all those countries that have done similar audit investigations in recent years; Ireland, Austria. The representative of NSI said that we would support the law or that we would prefer to follow the Austrian model, where it is established by a government decision. So do we, but we do not have these options, but at the same time we have examined a report from the Austrian Commission, which itself said that it sees the fact that it has no legal basis as one of the key shortcomings and has proposed the adoption of such a law. Not in the key elements, of course, I don't know exactly what they had in mind, but still. You know, then I'm gonna go after the individual articles of the law. In part, the debate and position of the SDS reminds me of the debate that took place in 2009, when someone else chaired the Committee on Justice, which was when a SDS member led it. [[advertising from the hall]] No, no, it was Dr. Vinko Gorenak. Oh, for internal affairs, I apologize. Yes, for internal affairs. And you know what came as a government proposal back then? Establishment of the National Investigation Office. Honey, God knows what we had on this committee. Because Dr. Gorenak had a very similar performance to what he did today. That it's out of the question, because we have criminals. We used to go to the Odessa together, where we argued about it because you opposed it. Not to say a few months later, when Zalar — you know we're probably not the biggest friends — he brought the idea of a specialized state prosecutor. What the hell was that going on? What are you doing? So you're setting up some lame stuff. They don't have those institutions that are basically a disaster. [[…]] Today these are reference institutions for you. Not to mention that at the time of the SDS, I did not see one bill, but one bill that would strengthen the fight against banking crime, which would strengthen the functioning of the state prosecutor's office or other institutions. Okay, so much for that. I wouldn't go into this if it wasn't for a show like this. Now, first, the United Left. That's it, why is there such a commission? It's a matter of debate again. We have put forward in the Interdepartmental Group a proposal, rather former, former, former and so on, following the example of good foreign arrangements. Perhaps Slovenia is in a specific environment, but this indicates an extremely high level of cynicism and despair of where we are. If, in another country, a former supreme judge, a former state prosecutor, a former member of the Bank of Slovenia runs a commission, this is usually a sign of trust in such a commission. They also have such regulations abroad. But I'd add that the list isn't closed. This last paragraph says "... another individual or individual who is a respected expert in the field under systematic investigation may also be a foreigner". These things will also need to be reviewed in the committees and further the procedure for the adoption of legislation if they are to receive a green light today. However, I would also like to touch on the performance by Member Möderndorfer, Alliance. That is all I want to say, Mr Möderndorfer, there is no way that Parliament does not hold that Parliament is completely excluded, on the contrary. You have repeatedly said that you have read the law, so I would tell you that the sixth paragraph of Article 6 states that the final report is submitted by the Commission to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. But it's true that it depends on how you have your print, and that's up there, and it's easy to overlook. Okay, I'll pick up some specifics later. I want to say one more thing. You can believe in well-intentionedness or inadvertentness. This is not a commission that could solve a number of problems, but we think it solves those problems that have been solved by similar tools in countries that we so often consider to be examples. Establish a tool with which no one can be discredited or killed because it is not decided on individuals, but on the subject of an investigation, on problems, on systemic irregularities. Just like the good-looking Member Verbič said what this interdisciplinary should mean, from which some of you later made a fool of yourself, when these people are at work to do this and that and that. So it's a tool. Can this tool live in the Republic of Slovenia? Are we already so cynical that such prominent individuals, who would be appointed by the government, who should guarantee by their name that within 15 months something is done to be involved with them by high officials and experts from other authorities, whether we are already so cynical that we are saying that it will either be a toothless tiger or it will be a new KPC or it will be a new KPC or it will be, in the same breath we are saying how great the Icelandics know it, how great the Irish know it, how great the Austrians know it with such tools that we don't even give them – that's a big problem! The last thing that is said many times is why the government in all these systems, which I mentioned and followed, the government proposes to set up such a commission, even though it is once again a matter of parliamentary investigation, whether it would spread; the government because it is also its responsibility because it is responsible for these big projects because it has to take decisions on these projects. [[…]] And the government, whether left or right, even in the Republic of Slovenia, often does not hide from decisions, but postpones them by saying that we must wait for what this court will say, we must wait for what the police will say, we must wait for what the parliamentary commission of inquiry will say. Until then, we will not make a decision; however, it is often necessary to decide on guarantees, new investments and so on. Today, if such a law were passed, you will also be able to say in Parliament that the government has another instrument there. Find out what the real situation is and decide. As it is said, I would like to, although I think it will be very difficult to have a really constructive debate about this, because I believe that such a law is needed because such a law in environments that are also comparable to us, I am not just talking about Iceland, it has produced good results. Since this is something new, it would be good to have a serious discussion about it, not a discussion as we have heard it. Havela beautiful.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u195	You can have the replica when you discuss it. First the debate, then the replica, I'm sorry. Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mrs Anja Bah.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u196	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! Of course, I welcome the law, which should allow for systematic investigations into projects of national importance, but at the outset I am also asked a question, this commission, which will carry out this exercise, will have sufficient legal powers to be able to carry out its work successfully, because in obtaining data it is stipulated that authorities in both state and self-government local communities, holders of public powers, persons of public and private law and thus forward all data further, irrespective of the provisions of other laws. I don't know if such a provision is strong enough to say that the Commission will get the data. On this occasion, I would also like to highlight the area of banking. Indeed, we are talking here about the Bank of Slovenia enabling the exchange of information in accordance with European Union law and the protection of professional secrecy and so on. What if it turns out that even the European Central Bank is involved in any of these procedures and how does this data actually come about? We are the system of the European Union, the country as such is included in the European Union, and it is likely that such cases should also be foreseen across the borders of Slovenia. However, I fear that we will not go further with banks than that this will be a bank secret and that European legislation does not allow it, and that we will probably not be able to resolve the key problems in Slovenia with this committee if the law is drawn up in this form, as it is or is adopted in this form, as it is proposed. I think that, too, at least somehow I do not feel that this law would also have jurisdiction to review the transfer of bank claims to bad banks. We know there are very speculative estimates involved. I can't find this in this law, and I can't even manage the property. We are talking about recapitalisation – what about the property sale process. We know that somehow once again Telekom is one of those companies that is supposed to be back on the sales table under these changed circumstances in Macedonia, but here it is found that the procedure was not transparent, but I do not find that the sale process would be included in this law. And not least, it's an extraordinary asset, but we have 11 billion. Okay, we're going to be able to monitor the recapitalisation, just selling portfolio investments that we have so defined, not really. That is how I think that, of course, if this law does not contain it, the content should also be extended to these areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Madam President. In this response by the Minister to the views of the parliamentary groups, we can find that Minister Goran Klemenčič has responded very little to some of the presentations, which were very plastic and also reasoned. I would expect you to intervene there and to request the Minister to argue, or to state, with the arguments, the inaccuracies expressed in the position of the SDS Group. None of the statements made by the Parliamentary Group have been denied by the Minister! He didn't tell her. He didn't say it was wrong that he didn't. As regards the investigators of the bank hole, Mr Gorenak said that the President of this investigative commission could be a former member of the Bank of Slovenia Council, meaning one of the former governors or vice-governors. Dr Fabian was not given a mandate yesterday for the operation of the banking system, and by this definition this gentleman could be an investigator of the bank hole. This applies to Dr. Kranjec, who was governor, the same thing and so on. That was said. Madam, you did not intervene adequately because Mr Minister did not deny that this was wrong, wrong claim, and allow the Minister to settle with the SDS with incorrect data. What colleague Gorenak was going to say in the replica was related to the Minister's incorrect claims, to the Minister's incorrect claims. Following this practice, which is enshrined in Article 5, he may be the main investigator of this bank hole, which is appointed by the government, Minister Goran Klemenčič, because it is not excluded that he cannot be an active official, but he is a former KPK official. This is exactly what comes out, and by this definition Mr Klemenčič has written a law for himself. Madam, I propose that you continue to hold the meeting in such a way that the Minister responds to the allegations, not to slander and open up topics that are not the point of the agenda. We have a sovereign position, we will always say it and they have been told in our position by statements that certainly hold because they are quotes from the law. But the Ministry comes up here with something, I don't know. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u199	Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the procedure, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Members usually say: I expect you to warn the Minister and so on, but I cannot, Vice-President, ask you to do so because you were not here in 2009. So I ask you, if you'll allow me to give the Minister a document procedurally, but this is a document from 2009, when we discussed the establishment of the National Investigation Office, and the Minister lied before, you know. He said we went to the Odessa and we opposed the NPU. The magnetogram of that day reads: "I must tell you very clearly that in the SDS Group, we do not oppose and support any other form of creation that would be more effective in the pursuit of organised crime, financial crime or other crime. In short," says the magnetogram, "the establishment of every form, including the National Investigation Office, we support." That's what I'd procedurally hand over to the minister so he wouldn't lie to see what the truth is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u201	I'll allow you to give him the document on a case-by-case basis. The word was wanted by the Minister of Mag. Goran Klemenčič, followed by Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u202	Thank you very much. For a little while. Mr. Tanko, now I apologize for obviously upsetting you. Right on that part you pointed out, about five. Articles and constitutions, and so on, I corresponded to Mr Gorenak and the United Left. I said why such an arrangement was given, I said that such arrangements in most foreign countries where they are less cynical have fewer problems with previous officials and so on. And that's it. And I said that this is still a matter of debate and that the circle is not closed. That's it. Otherwise, look, you can't expect me to argue back on something, you have to admit that it was just a funny performance because he wanted to do it, Dr. Gorenak. Yeah, that's no offense if you told you I mean, 'cause you're nodding me now. [[…]] In the end, you just wanted to show an absurdity that was offensive to some people, because you know that, but you can't expect me to answer that. And that's interesting to me; you're more fun, then Mr. Tanko's angry, but that's it. But not having me and SDS here now, because I really don't think that's appropriate. I'm still telling you the same thing that I used to say. Because, no, because you know how many of these things were. I know you're in the end, 'cause which No, no, wait, which one? [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u203	Let's face it, well, let's keep going. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u204	This is not the subject of this debate, but [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u205	Let's focus on the marriage, please. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u206	Let's focus on that. [[…]] Yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u207	Thank you very much. The word has Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, please. Get Mr. Matjaž Hanžek ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u208	Madam President, thank you so much for your words. First of all, I must say that I was somewhat surprised by the position of the United Left, which supports this law. I hope, at least, that the President of the Commission of Inquiry in this National Assembly on TES 6, Mr Hanžek, will at least protest, given that he has been mistrusted. Well, not just that! All other Members of Parliament who have signed under the appointment of this commission of inquiry, because, after all, this is a parallel. Read the law, read the commission of inquiry, and you will see that there are two parallel cases. The only difference is that Members do this within their working time and other special experts will be paid well for it. How well paid, we have the greatest experience right with a SMC client, where there are some real tycoons about various contracts at the expense of taxpayers' money. The minister said that the law was not perfect and that it had a flaw, but he had a lot of references to similar marriages abroad. Dear Minister, if I were you, I'd make as few references as possible to abroad, because if I were abroad, you wouldn't be the minister today. Those who violate the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and those who violate the Constitution elsewhere certainly do not occupy such a function, not in the countries you have highlighted. Something really bothers me about this appointment or not naming. In what way a person may not be a member of a commission if only the accused is brought against him. It is said that there may be a member who has violated a law that has violated the Constitution, someone else, but for whom only an indictment can be filed, which we somehow know very well in our country, cannot be a member. Then I'm going to go get some more articles of this law, and you're talking about that this is supposed to be some sort of investigation for the knowledge of about one billion. Your Honor, when? At the start of the project, between the project or at the end of the project? What am I saying? It clearly states that the value of the project or the financial burden of the State exceeds the percentage of the budget in force of the Republic of Slovenia. We're talking about about about a billion. And now tell us when: at the beginning of the project, during the project or at the end of the project, given that the investigation can take place in between. On the one hand, you have previously read to your fellow Member – and many times I cannot agree with him, even when he regrets – that the National Assembly is mentioned. Mr. Minister, look at the way it's mentioned. The Commission will read this here – and what can we do? Let's sit down. We will not get to know each other, we will not accept this report. Tell me what the National Assembly will do with this report, or why you will end up assigning it some responsibility that will not have any responsibility at all. Perhaps because it can be anticipated at the end of the day, because the law on financial consequences does not indicate what high indemnity claims, you will end up saying that the National Assembly was informed of this report. It's stupid not to be a couple! At least tell me what's gonna happen to the National Assembly. Secondly, we have a commission in the framework of the National Assembly, which has clear instructions, clear definitions, competences, and this committee must be appointed by the National Assembly. But this commission has far less powers than this commission will have, which will be called by the government, but it can be from one of the ministers. And that, Mr. Minister, in one part you speak the competent ministry, but in the law you speak one of the ministers. Consider how and what it is. You're talking about relatively small financial implications. I think they can make you very big. According to how our system works, there can be more than a large number of compensation lawsuits. On the one hand, you will not treat or seek personal responsibility; the law is supposed to have a preventive nature. Yeah, then why do we even need him? Might it not be that money you will spend because you will, after all, be redistributing the staff — the one who read this law — means that there will be a shortage of work there at this time. It will be for you to determine some prevention, and on the other hand you give yourself, forgive the expression, but really huge powers, from personal data, to data. [[…]] But of course you won't be looking for personal responsibility, of course not. In what way, though, you should seek personal responsibility if the investigators, on the other hand, are actually responsible for the situation. Will the chairman of the commission conclude that he is to blame for the situation himself? Yes, of course not! That is why, of course, we do not expect personal responsibility. Dear Mr Klemenčič, given that you often talk about the rule of law, about what you really care about and what you want to do in this country, this time I really call you: move such nonsense away because this law is really stupid. And so many, so many, I'll say the opposite is in it, it's funny. You know, in this national council, we often hear that the SDS can't make a law. You use all the machinery to prepare this. See what it says in there, and you'll have something to laugh about. I hope one day we will be in one of the countries you mentioned. But of course, I told you this once before, and then we won't talk because you won't be the minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u209	Mr. Tanko, procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u210	Thank you so much for saying that. Madam President, I would like to make one request to you if you would ask the Minister to respond as well. In fact, in accordance with Article 5, I have previously raised a clear question as to whether the provision of Article 5 can be understood in such a way as to enable the President of the Investigative Commission for the Banking System to become the former Governor of Dr Marjan Kranjc and Deputy Governor of Dr Janez Fabian, who are the most responsible for the creation of the Bank Hole, and whether after this law can become the President of the Investigative Commission for the Banking Hole, Minister Goran Klemenčič, in his capacity as Minister. I would like to ask for an answer because it is still up to this practical debate in this part, because, as is understood in Article 5, for some who have not done their job properly, it is the appointment of these people to lead this commission in essence as a reward for unfulfilled work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u211	Thank you for the procedural proposal. The Minister shall apply for the debate whenever he wishes. Now I ask you or the Minister, do you want to answer? Then go ahead. Mag. Goran Klemenčič, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u212	Thank you. As regards the question: Goran Klemenčič as Minister cannot become a member of such a commission because it is a conflict of interest which is prohibited by other laws and incompatible functions. That's the first thing. Well, you're in ZInt, but you have ZIntPK, and you have a marriage. Like Dr. Gorenak, he cannot become, for example, as an ex, not as a current Member, for example, yes, but as a minister, and the Secretary of State cannot be, because this is prohibited by the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption as a System Law. [[…]] It's, it's yeah, it's [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u213	Now the minister's talking. The Minister has the floor. And time is running out.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u214	There's another law that rules out. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Hanžek has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Mag. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u216	Thank you, Vice President. I'd take advantage of it first, and my colleague, Anja Bah Žibert, responded. No, I don't feel any resentment or anything, because another committee is going to be investigating TES 6 as well, as the police probably don't feel offended, because the National Assembly has set up a committee to investigate TES 6, because the powers are different and the results are different. I don't know about the other members of the committee. I'm just talking about myself. On the contrary, I am glad if the same thing from different angles is analysed from different perspectives, because then the result is certainly better. Well, I'm not going to talk about the shortcomings or the quality of the law. I've seen quite a few flaws, and I believe they'll move on. The United Left has offered its "yes" as well as many other times simply because an idea does not stop, but that it has the opportunity to develop, to improve this bill. So here too, and let us hope that in the coming time, in the coming months, or in whatever way, this law will go forward, many things will happen, because we have to admit that many things are still inconvenient, are being corrected. Of course, if that's not the case, we won't back it up later. I myself have little doubt whether another commission is needed or not. I was not convinced either by my opponents or by my advocates, so let us let others convince me of one another later on. However, as with the minister, we know how difficult it is to investigate things, so I don't envy anyone, and I don't think it would hurt anyone else to do anything. But I do have something to say that I'm going to be the devil's lawyer for my own visions. [[…]] Almost reminds me that the government will oversee itself. Although I'm not the confidenceless one who would have seen some connections in advance and so forth, but I would still like to have a somewhat more firm commitment, professional independence. Not because of this, but because of all the governments in general. As far as I can tell, I don't really know if any government has suffered from any professional autonomy. We both know that, and I am also afraid that governments will continue to do so in this scenario. That's why it's a little questionable here. Secondly, what I find most problematic, or what I would like to see most, is that this commission of inquiry would be focused on preventing similar frauds that have taken place now. The current government could have started quite quickly. I will count a number of projects that show that the new TES 6 or worse will be, and the government can prevent them, but so far it has not shown any particular desire to prevent them from doing so with the commission or not with the commission. For example, NEK 2. This is a project, one that sees how TES 6 — SOME 2 goes after the same story. Up to now, 20 million have been spent on public procurement, even though they should. I've already asked the minister twice here. There's no smart answer. The following is the third development axis, the north. We know that the government has now re-elected the most expensive option, the most agricultural land is destroyed and so on; which has already been rejected not many times by the professional public, but is always in it. If we wait for this to end, we will first throw a billion and destroy 150 hectares of land, then let the government do it! [[…]] Let me finish. Half a billion when selling NKBM, for future sales of Telekom and possibly for results [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u217	Mr. Magg has the word. Ange Logar, prepare Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u218	Thank you, Madam President. Previously, Minister Klemenčič said that the other countries that carried out some investigations are less cynical than we are here in the National Assembly. I assure you that, as long as and when the government comes with a good marriage proposal, there is no cynicism in this Chamber, but a quality substantive debate. But when a law that limits absurdity comes into this room, then a little creativity should be allowed to Members, especially because this creativity is well-intentioned. In fact, not every marriage proposal that is put into Parliament in a legal procedure is such that it can be effectively corrected, and perhaps sometimes it is better to withdraw a proposal. We therefore have before us a proposal for a law drawn up by someone who, in his previous function, has all the reports or most reports falling down in court as per the current tape. Now the former KPK president, the current minister, has made his own KPK in the government. So, ad hoc KPK for government needs, with powers that are not similar to any other arrangement in other countries, with the possibility that if someone does not want to say something, it may refer to secrecy or the possibility of harming the process, while at the same time, if he wishes to report something, again a very good and convenient Inquisition commission. That Mr. Klemenčič is the author of this law, the spirit of the law is already translated. Look, earlier, Mr Klemenčič said that the proposal for this law was proposed here in good faith. When the Constitutional Court repealed or the Supreme Court annulled the property situation of one of the politicians in Slovenia, on TV Slovenia was Mr Klemenčič's defense, we worked carefully, in the best faith. Even then. Earlier, colleague Gorenak pointed out that this decision was a college decision in Article 6 See what Mr Klemenčič replied to the same observation as he had decided on Mr Janša's property situation: the answer was, the decisions were collective Good, college, collectively the same. [[…]] [[…]] Further, there is no police, there is no judge, nor do I know who would not make any decisions in this country that would be illegal or unconstitutional. Now with such a pedigree, someone is preparing a law that is supposed to solve these problems of bad practices in the country. But I would still believe and buy this good intent if I didn't know and monitor Mr Klemenčič's work in the past. When Mr Gorenak brings him written proof that the position of the SDS at that parliamentary committee meeting was different from that previously represented by Mr Klemenčič, Mr Klemenčič replied that he still claims the same. That's how it's gonna be with this committee. The excuse that this is a copy or transfer of Iceland’s good practice to Slovenia is not true. In Iceland, this committee is parliamentary. I have here a report from this Icelandic commission, here. In it you will read a number of revelations about the Prime Minister, the work of the government, about individual ministers. I doubt that the commission set up by Mr Klemenčič will adopt a position and a final report, which will speak critically about Mr Cerar, I do not know about Mr Koprivnik or anyone else. However, I believe that when this law is established, confirmed, it is difficult to defend it, so it is easier to take those positions in support, but when this law is confirmed, if it does, I believe that the government will set up a government investigative commission on the granting of loans between 2004 and 2008. That's what I believe. But do you think, Mr. Klemenčič, that this will make a substantial contribution to identifying those responsible? Especially since you write in this law that it is not the purpose of this law to determine responsibility. So what? Only the government's political weapon? And the answer is that Parliament has its own investigative commission, which, say, the opposition can set up. Once the opposition has established an investigative commission in the National Assembly, the government will set up its counter commission in the government. Only with one purpose to relativize this work. I'm sorry, if the marriage proposal is bad, I think it's the duty of Members to say that this proposal is bad. And Mr Klemenčič, it was not just the SDS that warned on the sidelines of this bill, so I do not know why you spend most of your time on SDS, unless you agree with the arguments that we are establishing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u220	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I was wondering if I should check out too, because quite a lot of the applicants have canceled the debate, but I still think I will give my opinion, my position on the establishment of this commission of inquiry. I believe that this law provides a legal basis for the establishment of this special commission, so says the first article of the law, the commission of inquiry, and I believe that this will provide legal basis for a rapid and systematic investigation, and that information will be provided to the national assembly and the government for a decision on how to proceed in this area. As you can see, the problems that, especially when we talk about bank holes, are very, I would say, problematic – in Christian terms it is called in the sky of sobbing problems – and I think we will set up any commission and whatever we do in this area, we will take a step forward to investigate these things. I think it is right to investigate, to find out who the citizens of this country were who gave these loans, who treated the money in banks so wastefully, and that we have the right to do so. We have committed coalition partners in the coalition contract to ensure an independent audit of the TES 6 project and the economy of the future operation of the Šostanj Termoelectrica. Of course, there will be a lot of effort here, and I think that there is nothing wrong with this parliamentary commission being appointed by this Commission, which is otherwise called by the government, because I say that whatever will be done in the study, this will be a step forward. Citizens who expect answers to what has happened, too, I think they will get a message that we don't care in the National Assembly and that both the government and the Members are trying to do something and that data, what and how it was. As I said, it is important that political responsibility be finally established, that all irregularities be investigated and then that those involved in these irregular transactions, if so called, be made public, and that they are also subject to appropriate sanctions for their misdemeanour or illegal conduct and actions. So far, we have been able to monitor in the media the resounding reports of suspected illegal practices investigated by various authorities, but comprehensive information, comprehensive images of the causes, actions and reasons for these irregularities so far. I am confident that an effective and systematic investigation will take place on the basis of this law, which will lead to an epilogue of these matters as soon as possible in existing procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u221	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grims, get Dr. Bojan Dobovšek ready. Here you go, Mr Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u222	Thank you for your word! Good-bye to all of you! To this day I have lived in the conviction that Justice has eyes bound to weigh down the arguments of one and the other things as neutral as possible, but after what has come to Parliament today and what is happening here, I am increasingly convinced that in Slovenia he has poor Justice because he cannot watch this "poflo" brought into Parliament. What exactly is this law that is before us today? If we let go of big words, you know what Murphy's marriage says, don't you? The lowest interests are hidden behind the most highly eloquent words. After we reflect these words — what remains? In fact, this law is a chronic proof that the government is completely incompetent and developmentally impotent, because otherwise it would not be able to deal with such things. What is the task of the government, ladies and gentlemen? It's a matter of the law. The task of the government is to establish a situation in which all state social systems, from education, health care, justice to law enforcement authorities, operate and, of course, to establish a situation within which quality and good entrepreneurship is developing, which is the foundation of all prosperity. This is the task of the government, ladies and gentlemen! What does this government offer by this law? Instead of this bread and games, because she doesn't know how to run the country, then she'll go cowboys and Indians, and she'll be politically persecuted by some investigator there who doesn't like it, and she'll be blacking them out in the media, so that no one will happen to notice how she's not capable of doing anything good herself. That's what's before us today. The government doesn't have any investigators to set up, that's total bullshit by definition in our legal system. This, if it is already the case, is a matter for Parliament. Even in Parliament, this should be based on a great deal of cooperation, to a great extent of consensus, because it is sad again now, it is usually just a means of political accounting and then it emerges, like that investigator in the previous term who persecuted in a country where left-wing extremists killed 100,000 people, and then they investigate only the right-wing extremists for so long that Branko Masleša did not want to sign the wiretap orders anymore because they exaggerated across all possible borders. By the way. And that's how it really happens with us. Now imagine that this was still in Parliament. What will be left only in the government, which is a unilateral one, which represents exactly one part of the political space; the one in power. Talking about it being neutral and professional, but I don't know what – I'm sorry, I'd be laughing by tomorrow, but we don't have that much time, so... If he thinks about how much it's going to cost taxpayers, it's going to cost him! Such a theatre, which conceals the developmental incompetence or the government's incompetence, costs, ladies and gentlemen! And it's going to cost a lot of money to put a finger on someone's god, and other things to make sure that no one notices how this government does nothing. So I would kindly ask, Minister, to allow the Justice to breathe with full lungs, and pick up this legal ostrich and take her back to where she came from – back to the government. And just so that with similar things, please don't go to Parliament anymore. The government should come to Parliament with projects, with proposals for acts to be put in place; it should establish a European functioning justice system that will be effective and will be judged in accordance with European legal practice, European standards and European values. So that the Constitutional Court does not, for some ten years, end its victory by not actually meeting the minimum standards, without regard to the action, which, of course, goes to the prosecution, regardless of the judgment and not all that has been going on in the process. That's a start. And it's your area, Mr. Secretary. It should then be possible for this government to come to Parliament once with proposals for laws other than tax, and then, in the area of banking and all others, to create conditions that will be at least as favourable for entrepreneurship as they are in neighbouring Austria, so that Slovenian entrepreneurship will cease to flow across the border. I don't know how much you're feeling here, but I do know that in Gorenjska there is no more entrepreneur who's successful, and that he wouldn't have at least an account from Austria if he doesn't already have a head office there and he's probably still preparing to move his entire production and his family there, to that side of Caravank. This is the task of the government, ladies and gentlemen! It's not like she's going to go cowboys and Indians, but she's going to explain who's responsible for something and who's not. It's none of her business. This can be done by Parliament, and once again, this should also be the result of some reasonable agreement by Parliament, and the government must establish the conditions under which law enforcement authorities and state institutions are responsible for this purpose. This is the task of the government, ladies and gentlemen! So once again, and with this I will not be too long, please take this, take this out and give this opportunity to Mrs Justice to breathe once again here, in this Slovenia, that she will no longer have to hold that bandage over her eyes, so that she will not see what comes from your side here to Parliament. This is not your task, it is not the task of this government and it is also not in accordance with the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. Investigators, as well as some other powers, have the basis in the constitution. What you have brought, of course, has no basis anywhere, but apparently there is a desire that, as with some act of the KPK, which, by the way, has experienced its infamous epilogue in the Constitutional Court, and then where else, perhaps again, some government here and there who may not like it or will not be able to prevent anyone who is more successful than the present – which means almost anyone – from coming into power. That's the problem we're facing. The only thing that this government has been doing was with electoral legislation, with this law, and with what, I can list in the last period, is that we are dealing with projects that are obviously designed if we release big words again, just to prevent some serious, capable, European-oriented alternative from coming back to power. Those who have already proved that they can lead successfully, at the same time, Slovenia and the whole European Union. These must be stopped by all means and this law is also intended, but forgive me, ladies and gentlemen, this has nothing more to do with the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia, nor does democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Dr Bojan Dobovšek has the word to prepare Mr Marko Ferluga. Dr. Dobovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u224	Thank you. All those who follow this debate! We are talking about systemic corruption, which Slovenia has recognised as one of the first to have and that we will approach its abolition. I see this as one step towards the elimination of systemic corruption, which is broader, which would specifically highlight the legislative takeover of the country. This body could come to life if we set the right course and together with some strength, taking into account human rights, of course. What do we have in this area now? In the criminal area, the police and the D.A. They reveal these big projects what crimes are. Financial responsibility, financial institutions, the Ministry of Finance and other ministries, which have competences with various inspections and others. And then, of course, the political responsibility that is revealed on the one hand by investigative journalists, NGOs and the parliamentary commission itself, which we have set up for these purposes. The common denominator of all of this is so-called Belarusian crime, good experts in financial and other areas that somehow paralyze state institutions. Where do I see these problems? The answer is in a strong country, not a number of large but professionally subordinated institutions. The biggest issue I see is the cooperation of many institutions. For many years, I have found that these institutions have cooperated very badly with each other, and I have repeatedly suggested that the country needs a body that will allow for greater cooperation. The second problem is reregulation. The laws are inconsistent, the powers are cut several times, and they are unclear. And the last problem is that these actions are complex and that is why we need to provide such answers. For example, in this area we have already established many institutions, for the NPU I was the only one who warned that there would be some mistakes, and at that time I stood up for a very strong criminal service, as we once had. We also have specialised investigative groups, which are intended to cooperate on a proposal from the Prosecutor's Office and also by the European institutions, are that the weakest member of us is the prosecution, which should lead these groups. So we're still weak here. After we know that these major projects are mostly supported by the institutions of the European Union or that foreign persons will be involved in these major projects, we have investigative groups that we are creating with the foreign countries of Joint Investigation Teams, and this is also one of the institutions that helps to better detect such acts. Forensic accounting and the role of forensics in these procedures have already been mentioned, which means that, once such organised crime has moved to a higher level, the authorities are also being prosecuted to a higher level. This is the kind of forensics that could help, but we do have questions about how to use this evidence in court proceedings. If I see this new institution as the influence of other countries – I was in Iceland then after that crisis – of course these examples from Iceland are good, but the environment was slightly different there. If we look at the comparison of what is now happening with Greece, they went the other way in Iceland. They rejected the proposal by the Banks of England to repay the loans to English investors and to be in crisis for one year, but they had tremendous support from NGOs and people to go into this project. And more than that, they had the terrible support of people to start uncovering a bank hole. If we follow this Icelandic model – what do we need? We need Icelandic thinking, Scandinavian thinking, which is resistant to corruption, we need the right person to lead this institution. Of course, we have to follow the financial flows and, like not always inventing new and new institutions, let's [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] into our environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Mr. Marko has a word, please? Mr. Tanko, please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u226	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. My colleague Grims and colleague Logar pointed out some dilemmas, including the constitutional position of this commission proposed by the Government, including some other matters, and he would expect the Minister, who, on behalf of the Government here, to comment on the claims made to him in the debate by some Members. If the coalition does not speak, this is another question, but my colleagues are certainly referring the right questions to the bill-maker, to the one representing the government, and at least what it is, we expect to get, given that it is a person who is a person who is a rightful person to write laws, the determination of responsibility, that it would also be prompt to respond to these claims that appear from Members, because there is no point in drawing forward the unanswered questions, and the other repeats this same thing, which is not even answered, let alone being clarified. I propose, Mr President, that you ask the Minister to at least try to respond to what his colleagues have said if he fails to explain in detail the purpose, objectives and other matters of the law at this point. Of course, there is also a normative part, a constitutional part, which has also been challenged in this work.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u227	Thank you very much. The Minister will, of course, assess when, because he always has the right to call. So it is his that the bill leads to results. Thank you very much. Mr. Marko Ferruga, please prepare Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u228	Thank you for your word. First of all, I would join my friend Bojan in his thinking and I feel the same way that this is actually one of the first steps or one of the steps and as one of the help for the work of those big projects that we have screwed up so far, and I hope that we will not continue to do so. First of all, I would also like to point out that this is a bill, which is now the first debate on this issue, and it is clear that this bill is not ideal and that it can be debated, complemented and corrected in certain segments, as the Minister has already said. The next thing is that I understand this as some basic tool or if you want an instrument of government in really these decisions, damning decisions, such as for some major infrastructure projects in advance. This should be understood as some signal that we want to have as much commission as they do and as they know it abroad, and that has some optimal and very good effects for the country and not least for their citizens. Now be negative and unconstructive to criticize everything together, and just so, I think the damage and time and understanding of this subject could lead us to the fact that it is a common issue that we are really trying to help the government in these matters, where there is a lot of money in the game, to make it easier to decide. That I will not be too long to conclude; I hope that this law or this commission, which is supposed to be in the future, will also carry out this comprehensive control of the second track, for example. In that positive way, of course. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Mr Joseph Horvat has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Matthew Tonin. Here you go, Mr. Horvath. Excuse me, procedurally, please, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u230	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I ask you very much to ask the Minister once again to respond to all these dilemmas, concerns, warnings given by Members in addressing this government proposal. For if the Minister does not respond, if the Minister does not defend his proposal here with arguments, he does not even try to defend him, then it is more than obvious that the arguments of fellow Members from our parliamentary group hold. All concerns stand. I expect you to ask the representative of the Government to make an effort to respond to what he has done to the signs and records in these discussions. Please, serve this gesture.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Mag. Goran Klemenčič [[…]] Mr. Zorčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u232	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. I have a procedural proposal. Article 68, paragraph 69 of the Rules of Procedure, states as follows: An MEP who wishes to speak on the use of the Rules of Procedure, that the President shall speak as soon as requested. Today we have heard three, four, if not ten attempts by our colleague Tank, who, as a matter of procedure, suggests that the minister answer something. He does not have this right under the rules of procedure, neither the President nor the other Members have this right. Everyone answers when they want to, according to the time they have. And these experiments are clearly a sign of countering this law, which will investigate the major systemic problems that resulted in the bank hole in TES 6. Apparently, such maneuvers show that even those in them may be recognized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Dr. Dragan Matić, please, procedurally. Don't you? Thank you. Mag. Goran Klemenčič, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Besides, I was taught at home that if someone asks you for something three times, then you have to respond, but I'll ask you another one. Why I don’t respond — because in the beginning I explained once again what the goals and purposes of the marriage are. Even with regard to those things that you have specifically highlighted, I have responded, then we have had another brief debate on the level of debate All that has been exposed to you later on, by the Member of Parliament, the Member of Parliament, Mr Mag. The logar, which is now gone, was mostly the problem of the author of the law, not me. [[…]] [[…]] The law was created as a matter of an interdepartmental group in which State secretaries of various ministries participated, and of course I support the law. But then we had a debate on your part, I think on the side of all three Members, if not all three, I apologize to you for sure whether I am suitable for a minister and so on to establish a small KPK. There was no discussion of a repealed decision on the property situation, there was no mention that it was reissued and confirmed in the same substantive environment of the talk was about human rights violations on my part – all that we have heard and therefore I really do not know why it would respond in the context of this debate on this law. [[…]] However, I may also begin to ask whether you voted in favour of the ZUJF, which has massively violated man's spiders and has been repeatedly abolished by the Constitutional Court, but I do not think that this is meant to be discussed in this law. However, if you raise any specific questions, if you raise any specific questions about the law, I will be happy to answer you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u236	Havela beautiful. Mr President, I suggest you tell the Minister because he has apparently forgotten that this ZUJF has also proposed his government and he voted in favour of it in the legislative process and the coalition Members have accepted it. So you talk about things and you read them to others, it's your habit obviously and also to many others, but you've accepted exactly the same ZUJF. Part of your package of financial laws in the budget is ZUJF. You, as a government, voted for it, you were probably also at a government meeting, and here you were sitting when you proposed a package of financial measures with the budget, with the ZUJF. So much for credibility. What Mr Gorenak has given you also stands at this point to say things you do and read to others. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u237	Thank you very much. No, this is not a debate on the law, I would not like to continue at this point. Please. I give the word "magic." Baby Verbich, here you go. [[…]] Excuse me, Mr. Joseph Horvath, excuse me, you have the floor. But get ready for Dr. Dusan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u238	Thank you so much for saying that. I will start with positive thinking and try to believe that the purposes are good, honest with this law. Because those who have no good, honest intentions are a diversion; a diversion of this country and have nothing to look for in this house and should be given a persona non gratis label. Dr. Bojan Dobovšek is a specialist in this area that we are talking about, and he said, I apologize, if I don't quote exactly, we need a real man, we need an Icelandic thinker. Why such an introduction? When I was preparing for this debate, I also found one project assignment done by High School, namely students, the sociological aspects of TES 6. Very interesting. Especially for the members of the Board of Inquiry. I'm not gonna read all 18 pages because I don't have that much time. To conclude, the students wrote this – because they are very critical – and conclude this way "and this will go on until the entire national elite changes and what is absolutely necessary today..." [[…]] – and the last sentence – "But unlikely". So it's a human factor, and we can still have such a good marriage, but if people don't work in the spirit of marriage, frankly, in the interest of the state, then everything is worthless, even so well-written. And I continue to trust that if someone has a state project, because there is talk about state projects, he trusts that he is leading it, then if he abuses that trust, then he must no longer have such confidence in life. It's the other way around. Now that I am reading the title of the law: the Law on Systemic Investigations of Projects of State Interest – I am a technician and, of course, I am also wondering whether there will also be technical, technological investigations. Because if yes, then this commission is interdisciplinary, everything is nice and right, it has no idea – I would not like to offend them in advance – it has no idea about certain technical specifications and specifications. For example, we'll get along better. If Telekom stays in state hands, because we don't want someone else's, we don't have an old iron, and if you're reading Telekom's business report, it takes about a billion to become a real player. Of course, one billion is more than one percent of the current budget and therefore is a state project. One percent of the state budget is under the assumption that the budget is 10 billion, is 100 million. Therefore, 100 million projects will be reviewed by this Commission. And what will she watch when she has no idea when a computer is being bought, some kind of severe technological equipment for the upgrades of Telekom Slovenije, and these will be specialists in some other areas? I may be wrong, but I'm going on with my informational thinking. I, Mr. Minister, have repeatedly publicly commended you for the creation of the Supervisor app in your time. Here it comes to me — considering the human factor that often fails with us — I am asked a question. Assuming that we have in the world, not only in Slovenia, there are very good applications in the world, very good software solutions for project management, or we might not go, if already, into some software solution that would search and throw itself out, as they say, some irregularities. I draw the analogy by means of audit houses, which, from the firm or the company they are auditing, get raw data and find out for themselves, this software will determine which stock is unattractive, non-seasonal and so on and so on. Which claims are more than that and so many days and so on. So I say that maybe Slovenia would be one special country here to make a software solution, because the human factor doesn't work for us to catch a thief. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Here you are, Minister Goran Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Just for a little while. The use of external experts is provided for by law because external execution is necessary. That's the thing you said in the end, and I wish it were. [[...]] I think it's possible to do that. So, computer systems to search for anomalies within the mass of data. By the way, the Institute of Joseph Stefan is supreme in this field, on a global scale, and I advise a wide range of foreign companies and foreign countries, and in Slovenia, for example, it is less present. Just 14 days ago, I think it was, we signed a Memorandum of Cooperation on the use of the Institute's skills in this area in opening or presenting the judgments of all courts in Slovenia, and I hope that the end of the year will also be realized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u241	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dusan Verbic, prepare Mr Jani Möderndorfer. Mag. Verbich, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u242	Thank you very much, Vice President. Colleagues and fellow Members, good-bye! Before I address the content that I intended to discuss today, I am obliged to use a few words for my own, say, forewords, but in particular, I have in mind the honourable Member of Dr Gorenjak. I conclude from his presentation that you do not want to face systemic corruption. In spite of the laughter. Excuse me, I wasn't laughing at you either, even though you had a very serious story. I think that's how much dignity you're contributing to. If I keep going. When you read your imaginary story with names and surnames, you have only proved that you simply do not tolerate the person you quoted, but also from this place I must say something. That's your problem. That's the problem with SDS. This is not a problem for the Modern Center Party. For if I am serious about the subject of content itself, when it comes to talking about the former, if I may also call it the Attorney General, I myself had in mind when this story took place on your part, although it is not my intention to go back, but I also had in mind the distinguished Attorney General Drobnič, also Mrs Brezigar, and I wonder whether these two persons are not competent enough. Next. Regarding the presentation of the SMC's position, which you stated was the material presented and prepared by the government. Here I must strongly tell you, both for myself and for my colleagues, that we represent our views in the Group of Members. From your statement, however, I can conclude that you may have had this practice at the time of the SDS government. So much for that. I'd touch another thing. Mr Dobovšek, Commissioner, presented the theoretical and practical aspect of the approach to systemic corruption. And if memory doesn't deceive me, a few days ago, when he was at an MVK meeting or working committee, you said that Dr. Dobovšek was not a normal Member, you even said that you should follow him almost as a rule in the National Assembly and that he would teach at more than ten external colleges. That's right. You were right, but obviously this was only true for the appointment of potential candidates for the SDH Supervisory Board. That's where he's supposed to be followed as an extraordinary expert. How's it going today? Today I have personally observed that his position is not being followed and that it is not recommended that we follow him as an exceptional expert in so-called systemic corruption. So much for that. But he would have gone over to my content himself. Preparation of measures by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prevent corruption for 2015 and 2016 with subtitles Zero tolerance for corruption. I must also refer here to the following document: The preparation and implementation of national anti-corruption measures is also one of the recommendations of the Council of Europe. In 2014, the Republic of Slovenia, in line with the Council's recommendation, will continue with the measures put in place and will start with additional - I stress additional - effective measures to combat corruption, all with a view to promoting transparency and accountability when introducing external evaluation and implementation and monitoring. I believe that it is very clear from this title what the Government of the Republic of Slovenia intends to do about the fight against corruption. For the Republic of Slovenia, I can say that in recent years it has become a society – I stress from the Coalition Treaty that it will not be misunderstood again in any way – that the Republic of Slovenia has become a society in which man is no longer a goal and a value, but often only a means of those who are driven primarily by power and money. Because of this, it is perfectly understandable that there is an increasing number of disappointments and apathy. If I specify what the project is of national importance for this investigation. The direct answer is as follows. I personally welcome all the forms of activity and organisation set up to prevent the abuse of taxpayer money. There is nothing wrong in this case if, on the part of the opposition Members and Members, any comments are heard and concerns will be completely legitimate and I do not object to any different thinking, but all such hints must be made clear that the fight against corruption and various abuses needs different forms and captures. However, according to the old Slovenian custom, which also applies to political parties, especially if they are in opposition, there are any approaches that can help to prevent possible distortions of abuse, in personal interest, which means damaging the public benefit, marked as a misappropriation of the public or even somehow were the words, "the construction that is extremely bad and better to withdraw it". I'm going to touch another thing that hasn't even been spoken about today, and I have to admit, I've been expecting it. I speak for the executive branch of the authorities and here I am referring to a narrower state administration and it is particularly unfair for employees of public servants, especially officials in positions of office, because there are sometimes difficulties, including in the public eye, that everyone is corrupt and they do not care what happens in the process of pursuing activities for the so-called public interest. It must be acknowledged that individuals who take advantage of the opportunity happen everywhere, in view of the place they occupy and, in the first place, abuse it for their own personal benefit. In the final stage, this means to the detriment of citizens and citizens. As far as I know the system of government, for the vast majority of civil servants, talking about their corruption is insulting and that is the reality. Indeed, what I have mentioned is that there are individual cases and that is why there is also this approach proposed by the government. This has given a strong message to those who think that it is still possible to gain deceptive personal benefits through various government projects. Personally, I see in this law somehow great value in the seriousness of the aim of combating corruption both in the larger and wider public administration. Of course, everything in terms of the goal against zero corruption. But it's true that I realize it's not that simple. Especially in areas we know about and are almost known to be the most corrupt. That is why I am so much more in the position that Members, not only are there a lot of talk, but we are aware that there are also different approaches to this. I am in the position that this law is one of the tools of the fight against corruption, and I think it will help all public servants, especially those in the cities, as I have mentioned, officials in positions, and so far they have merely observed the sidelines of the implementation of individual state-owned projects – I apologize, it is important. I believe that they will now have the opportunity to actively engage in the processes of preventing possible abuses through the appointment system and also to demonstrate to citizens and citizens that there are unjustified labels on the corruption of the entire public administration. And I see this in this marriage also this opportunity. Let us not be naive, so to speak, for Members and Members of Parliament, let us not blind ourselves to the fact that under every government there have been no cases of corruption by individuals, on projects which have been set up solely for the purpose of the so-called public interest. It has happened and will continue to happen to individuals who are trusted in good faith and called to a responsible place to turn themselves into a person whose primary interest is personal benefit. And this is also, I think, the purpose of the proposal for this Law on Systemic Investigations of Projects of State Interest, in particular with a view to combating decisively all forms of irregularity in the implementation of State projects in a timely manner. That is why I certainly support this law in my first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u244	I'll be very brief. Thank you very much. Look, Mr Verbic, we're not talking about corruption here, and I don't know what kind of projects we're talking about over 100 million projects. This is one thing — not about corruption. Cops and criminals are chasing corruption. These officers and these gentlemen will have no authority. No powers. There are no powers in the law that they would have. Their product will be a free file that will not be directed at anything. The police and the D.A. must investigate corruption. As for – I will – because I have promised, President, that I will be brief – as far as Mrs Brezigareva is concerned and the first Attorney General is concerned, he is so old that I believe he will not deal with it. As for Mrs. Brezigareva, I know her, and I know she wouldn't mix the fog. She'd work, and there'd be fog mixing here, and she wouldn't swear to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor. Get Mr. Jože Tanko ready. Here you go, Mr. Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u246	Thank you very much. In fact, we all have very little time, and in fact, I will be generally defined only to the point. Today's debate has really shown, and what is also my personal biggest offense is this: Minister, you said the following sentence: "We have a good purpose, so we decided to go to the general debate." If there is a regular procedure, there is always a general debate, because we do not have much to decide here. But there is another problem when you go with such an important law, which is a new novelty that is not actually tested practically anywhere, you should actually have a really wide public debate before we come to the National Assembly at all. And to check first how this works, what the section says about what they say in the judicial branch of power, given that we're interfering with theirs, I'll say, jurisdiction and so on and so forth. This seems very important to me because, on the one hand, we are introducing something new, then I would expect that certain things should be stopped or taken over, or redirected or anything else – but it is simply not such a simple question. Now look, on page 20 you have a key paragraph, which you write yourself: "essential opinions and comments that have not been taken into account, as well as reasons for non-compliance: Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, Office of the State Prosecutor of the Republic of Slovenia, Bank of Slovenia, Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, Police" In short, they all had comments, I mentioned at the outset, and I very clearly say because you are interfering with their competence, when, where in any way. [[…]] In short, I think there'll be more options when we can talk more freely, as far as time goes. The next thing that I think is very important to me is that, if not the other, the state has always respected that the local community is autonomous. For the first time in this investigation, for no reason do we intervene very directly at the local level by saying that we are investigating state projects. Now I don't understand anything. I have a serious problem here, and if so, then it is necessary to define very clearly when and in which cases and so on, because otherwise I will have the feeling that it is only a political party, the mayor and the government will be second, it will be a virtual impression that it is really political pressure. How do we avoid that? And far from implying that this is how it's going to be. The next thing that still seems important to me is in fact that we will have to decide very clearly whether in the National Assembly we will actually allow the executive power to have an instrument that does exactly the opposite of what the National Assembly does. I have a serious problem here. That's why I suggest, Minister, because if you say that you truly believe and that you intend to make this project work, then let us hear it at some point. Believe me, I don't believe in a project like this today. Not because it's you, not because it would be because I happen to be the opposition, but simply because the thing, as it says here today, does not drink water. And you will have to – if, according to other projects and cases, we demand responsibility from the profession to tell us clearly whether it holds or not, even in this case come before the National Assembly and let the profession tell whether this story drinks water from a legal point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u248	The government owns two of the largest banks, 100 percent. If these banks do not want to report to the investigating authorities, the government is a congregation, it can resolve the supervisory board and this bank administration and do what is the problem. Secondly, the president or the minister knows the grey eminence of a bank hole because he was investigating a bank hole when he was a KPK. Why didn't he ever want to reveal it and tell us his names? Now the same man, who refused to do so, proposes to set up a government investigative commission. This is a political project, because the government will take care of the human resources structure of this commission, financially, and will set out the objectives of the investigation. This means only this, and it will happen the same as with the previous KPK, when a political target has been set and everything is focused on making it impossible for someone to perform their functions and so on. There won't be any more.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Now he's got the word "magic." Goran Klemenčič, Minister of Justice, as last.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u250	Thank you very much. The law has been a long time, Mr Möderndorfer, in intersectoral and professional coordination. It is one of the rare laws that has arisen, so that the government, first when it set up the commission, precisely because the matter is difficult, was prepared and I think it has been five months since it was prepared, hung on the website, including the government. The public was told that the proposal was outside. There have been several cycles with different professional institutions and concerns; there are absolute concerns. This has also led to some improvement and changes in the law, and I believe that further discussion will also help. Therefore, as it is said, I have closely followed all the criticisms, including yours, and I am pleased to listen to them. It's only nice if they're based on something, on some substrate – but okay. I look forward to your support for the law, because it is in the midst of an entire summer in which it will be possible to work on it and we will see ourselves through the committees on this law in September, which will be possible in a slightly different form from today's debate. But we can't take our eyes off the ball because of this, which I think is positive in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u251	Thank you very much. You've got your word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. If he wants to discuss the government's representative, please do so by raising his hand. I'm asking you to sign up. Three minutes 27 each. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u252	Thank you very much. For a little while. Before that, I forgot to tell Mr. Verbich the following. I did not see anything disputed in Mr Dobovsk's performance. He talked about too many organs, not coordination, and so on. Even if I did not agree with him, it does not mean that anything is wrong. Otherwise, if we're going to proceed with a quick procedure, according to time. Minister, look, it's disturbing, it's very disturbing that you're shooting donkeys. By the way, the cameras are recording us. You said before that we opposed the NPU, and I proved to you in writing that it wasn't true. We objected that you set up the NPU and that it was responsible to the Minister and not to the Chief of Police. Where did you see that? Yes, of course, but now we have to go out. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] Yeah, I can see that. The same thing happened with the D.A.'s office. We have opposed the decentralisation of the prosecution as such and irresponsible in the prosecution's organisation, which today has consequences. Let's move on. There was a talk earlier about the Irish. In Ireland, no commissions, no parliamentary, no less government, but police and prosecutors have brought them to prison. Ladies and gentlemen, don't brag about Ireland now! Otherwise, what are still questions for the minister is, of course, the following. First of all, what rewards they'll get. All it says here is that they will be rewarded. How much will that be? One salary, two wages, five wages, I don't know what it's gonna be. And the key question tonight – what about the product to be called the final report? What's going to happen to this product? What's going to happen to this product? But they will cut him open, put him in Paloma — probably after two years — because nothing can be in the report that would have consequences. The consequences may be a criminal charge, a police officer who knocks on the door that brings you to court and then takes you to prison, these are consequences, not some report that has no value. I'm also asking the minister what's going to happen to the data. Do you have any idea that the police are going to give the information to this committee? Are you funny?Oh, my God! That's gonna fall in the Constitutional Court. Do you think Mr. Fisher will give the information to this committee? This has to fall in the Constitutional Court. It can't be different. Again, the important question – if I repeat it briefly – is that they are witnesses, they have witness status and no responsibility is determined against them. So why are they going to the hearing of this committee? To show off, to watch, to paint? What? What's that gonna be? There will be no need to speak to them, and responsibility will not be established against them. Look, funny, the law is really funny and other than simply saying, Minister, take this matter away, never bring it in that form again, never embarrass yourself in that way. But coalition MPs, I'm just gonna say, look, by pressing the button for such a law, you're embarrassing yourself. Everyone embarrasses themselves by pressing the "for" button. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] That we showed you in these shows, that it was all nonsense and nothing else. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u254	Thank you for your word. Sometimes one expects one to understand at least the importance of speaking and listening in politics. In fact, when he successfully read his long written contribution to the SMC, I wondered if he listened — or whoever wrote to him — to what I had said before or not. He was talking about a strong fight against everything, against serious crime and the like, but I can only say good morning, ladies and gentlemen, because if you don't understand the legal order of this country in the coalition, we can't help you. The rule of law of this country states that with its ministries the government is responsible for the functioning of the systems, everyone in the country and each minister is responsible for his area, and the Prime Minister is responsible for coordination and general policy direction. This is how the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia determines. The government, of course, has within its ministries, investigative, repressive, all other institutions of this country and is obliged to ensure that they act legally on an appropriate basis and that they are doing exactly what a strong investigative commission is supposed to do in this case, which is a complete absurdity. This means, instead of operating systems, there will now be some substitute, which will obviously be used for political accounting, and for nothing else, because it can't be for anything else. Let's name things! That's what the taxpayers' money is for. Once again, if you don't understand the coalition as a whole – I've previously addressed it to the government – but you obviously have a problem with it. Why is the government, in fact? The government is here to come to Parliament with laws that will allow the justice system to work, and before, if you like, the investigating and repressive authorities, in accordance with the standards, standards and values that apply in the European Union and which we have decided on the plebiscite. It's the government's duty, not to replace it by playing cowboys and Indians and pointing fingers at someone. And then, of course, the government is obliged to come to Parliament with laws that will establish a system that will be friendly to entrepreneurship that will allow the development potentials of the state of Slovenia to relax. Instead of overburdening entrepreneurs and all citizens and citizens to establish a system that will allow for the opening of new productive jobs with high added value, it is for the government, ladies and gentlemen to lay down this framework to ensure that the banking system works to ensure that all systems of this country operate, but not to mess with investigators. That's your job, too. However, our mission in the opposition is to support what is good, propose alternative solutions if we want, and, of course, point to what is wrong. This is the constitutional order of the state of Slovenia, if you really don't understand it. But please, because your client's head is a constitutional lawyer, then ask him.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Mr. Igor Zorčič has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u256	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Comrade Grimes has just taught us what the government is doing, that's to make it possible for the prosecution, the judiciary. I agree with that, Comrade Grimes, but it was also the work of the previous governments, and they didn't. The purpose of this law is, not to let the prosecution work in any way, the work of the courts, but to identify the shortcomings that have happened to the previous governments, which have caused us to have a bank hole, we have TES 6 and, on the basis of the findings or results of these investigations, we will be able to change the legislation after finding the shortcomings and, in fact, regulate it so that these shortcomings do not happen by chance in the next projects, perhaps in the construction of a second track. That's the purpose of this investigation! I agree, Mr Gorenak, that this government does not have all the powers, pardon, this investigative commission, but it has the power to make a report at the end, and on the basis of this report I expect that Parliament will also have the opportunity to formulate or amend legislation where necessary; and this is the purpose. However, the investigation of criminal offences will continue to be the responsibility of the police, the prosecution of perpetrators of crimes under the authority of the prosecution, the prosecution under the jurisdiction of the judicial system and so on. [[…]] That's all that's left. We note the shortcomings that have occurred in the previous governments, so that they will not continue. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Procedural mag. Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u258	Thank you for your word. I propose to you, Mr President, that you deliver a copy of the Slovenian Constitution to the honourable Member as a matter of urgency, but it might be good that a copy of the Slovenian Constitution should be delivered to each member of the coalition now to the bench, so that everyone can read that the commission of inquiry defines the Slovenian Constitution as the jurisdiction of the legislative branch of power or of the National Assembly. Exactly what you said is defined in the Constitution as a task and competence for investigators in the National Assembly, and this is also regulated by positive legislation on this constitutional basis in the legal order of the State of Slovenia. For the executive branch, however, the Constitution provides for completely different tasks and powers, which are then also defined in positive legislation. But what you want now is, of course, something that will serve only appearance or if you want pira, but it has no operational executive function. This is not the jurisdiction of the executive branch of power, but it is the usurpation of something else — what the constitution gives to the legislative branch of power, if one still does not understand it. Why legislative? Because it is the purpose of the investigators to act on the basis of the consent of all political forces, both positions and opposition. It's supposed to be a matter of opposition and, of course, it's under the fingertips. This is supposed to be a form of supervision, parliamentary supervision to determine political responsibility. However, the supervisory function is one of the fundamental functions of Parliament, which unfortunately has been completely abandoned or even wants to be hindered and prevented in Slovenia. By no means is this the task of the executive branch of power. However, the executive branch has the power to lead the country to regulate, to regulate, to create conditions, to make proposals to Parliament, in order to create these conditions for all the systems of this country to operate, including with law enforcement authorities and with repressive authorities and with the entire judicial apparatus. That's all we're touching here today. Then we act in accordance with the constitutional order. What is offered here today is something that is totally contrary to the constitutional order, with legal rules and, if you want, with evaluation. This is about establishing some new form of pyari, some new form, if you want, of media pressure for political accounting. This, I'm sorry, is not the task of the executive branch of power. No way! On the contrary. They should do everything they can to prevent that from happening. But if you help, you also take on one part of your responsibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u260	Thank you very much, Chairman. Something in Mr Igor Zorčič's reply first. Speaking of the second track, it is first of all necessary to have a capable minister to obtain European funds in order to be able to write one project. The second time you talked about SDS being afraid of these commissions. As a prominent member of Zares, we cannot bear our own fears, but look who will make up this committee: the one responsible for the bank hole will be able to lead the commission and get paid for it. That's your suggestion. So leave Zares' tactics at home, now you're in SMC. When the minister earlier said that we had not specifically asked about the shortcomings of the law, he was lying. I specifically asked him about the following matters. Which minister will be able to propose, competent or any of them, given that different concepts are used in marriage. I was talking about value, and I did, and thank you for the warning, and I said a little too much. But we're talking about one percent. When? At the start of the project, in the middle of the project or at the end of the project? He didn't answer that. He also did not respond to what would be the jurisdiction of the National Assembly, whether we would watch, nod, or accept the report? He also did not tell me what would happen after the Commission had concluded. It is clearly stated in the bill that the Commission will stop its work when it concludes before the National Assembly. Who will be responsible for possible indemnifications if the commission then ceases to work? He also did not respond to the financial consequences that would come to me. They're gonna be big. In fact, for all those who will be on these various commissions – not just one – they will be able to work at the same time five, six, seven, I don't know. That's what you're gonna have to pay your friends. But the fact is, this is going to cost the country a lot. Plus compensation. In short, he couldn't give me an answer to that either. Therefore, I find it difficult to accept those explanations when they say or declare that we have only spoken of his function. And one more thing. If this proposal had to be prepared by a special expert committee first, and I just listed 10 nonsense to you right now, then God has mercy! Who's preparing these laws for you?Oh, my God! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Mag. Goran Klemenčič, please. Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u262	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, I was listening there. Look, if we peel this onion, in the end, I think there's some real, sincere misunderstanding about what such a commission is supposed to do and what this instrument is supposed to be, but something is a parliamentary debate – let's say. All this law brings – and of course it can be improved – and so it came into the parliamentary procedure following a regular procedure – is to establish a tool, to have a country, a country with poor experience in large infrastructure projects, one lever to determine the actual state on which the concrete government will be able to make decisions, smart decisions, and to unite – not to give money for certain external commissions, audits and so on, but to combine what is already best in Furs, in the police, in individual ministries and so on. What will be the result? As a result, the law prescribes this, the result of which will be compensation procedures, criminal proceedings and so on. Sometimes they run parallel to you, sometimes they don't. The simplest comparison is the following. You are taking over a new large company, where there are many shortcomings, such as suspicions and so forth, it is written about — and what do you do now? First you say, I'm not going to figure out what was wrong, I'm not going to order an audit, and then I'm going to call the police, and I'm going to tell her to solve it, and in the meantime, what? The company's gonna break. This is how we, as a country today, often behave, every government, yours, ours, and so on, because there is no such tool. Because when you have a big project ahead of you and you have an account, any government is waiting for what the police will do; thank God, but the police are investigating a crime, the crime of a systemic problem will not solve. All that is here, according to the experience of other countries in exactly such cases, from Austria, Ireland, Iceland, the United Kingdom, Australia, is also specifically defined, is that the tool of the government, as previously said, is that with existing resources, which, with interinstitutional cooperation, come to a conclusion of the actual situation, and this actual situation will be the basis, it will be possible to help, it can be parallel, sometimes a beginning to identify compensation responsibilities, criminal responsibility and, above all, to better manage. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u263	Mag. Branko Grimes, procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u264	Mr Vice-President, I am asking you to deliver one copy of the Constitution to the Minister, which is open to him on page 44 to read 93. Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia Parliamentary investigation. I quote: "The National Assembly may order an inquiry into matters of public interest", that is exactly what this law refers to. "But it must do so at the request of a third of the members of the National Assembly or at the request of the State Council. To this end, it shall appoint a committee which shall have the same powers as the judicial authorities in matters of inquiry and examination." Exactly that is the content covered by this law. This is the content which the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia gives to the National Assembly as jurisdiction in the exercise of its supervisory powers. This cannot in any case be the authority of the Government, but you can use the law to usurp it to the government, but be aware that you have done damage to Parliament and that you have gone against the constitutional order of the State of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u266	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. At least three times I have pointed out that the Minister has not answered the questions raised, even the last questions raised by colleague Anja Bah Žibert did not answer, which means that the Minister has come to the meeting of the National Assembly completely unprepared, he does not know the content of the law, he does not want to comment, he does not want to discuss the constitutional situation of this ad hoc commission, which will have jurisdiction over all subsystems of the country. This is said to guide and guide those prosecutors, the investigative commission, the Court of Auditors, the Constitutional Court, and I don't know who. This ad hoc commission, proposed by the government, will lead in a strange way by the government's delegation of staff to this commission, in its political manner. And the institutions that have been Tangled by this law have made comments because they are interventions in their constitutional and systemic situation. And the minister refused to answer the questions asked with a single word. In a word! I believe that specific measures should be taken with regard to the leadership of the National Assembly. If matters are not capable of being dealt with and this law is not capable of being dealt with, the President of the National Assembly could not even be included in the hearing of the National Assembly. He can't even include it. A minister who is unable to defend his marriage and explain matters cannot, in fact, serve as a minister. Unfortunately, let it be Goran Klemenčič or another minister. Always the same. The fundamental questions raised in the debate, the fundamental questions raised in the debate, remained unanswered. Clearly, this is a law that will continue to be politically charged with persons who are not close to this government coalition. Now the judgments in the courts have fallen, the projects in the KPK have fallen, but now they are repeating the same KPK story as they have already fallen on the case, and there are no other tools. Now the government has come up with a new project to do these things in a slightly different way, but with the same people who have done virtually nothing so far. Set this up, Mr President, so that we can have relevant answers and laws that are capable of being dealt with.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u268	President, I know it's already late, but what's happening in this Chamber is not worth this national assembly. Several times we have been faced with the fact that we have begun to address the point and there has been no competent minister or his secretary. Today we are discussing the point, and at the other end of the hall, the Minister of Chats and Disturbs the work of this National Assembly, instead of listening to the debate responsibly when we are talking about responsible legislation. It's really sad.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u269	Well, the minister can't answer. You know that. I can only conclude that in the second reading, the mother's working body will assess whether the conditions are that the law is adopted or not. In preparation for the second reading meeting of the Committee. Thank you very much. So I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide in half an hour in the framework of the votes. I'm putting an end to the 19th item of the agenda. I also adjourn the 10th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 21.55. Thank you very much. [[The meeting was suspended at 21.23 p.m. and resumed at 21.56 p.m.]] .
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u270	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 26th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled at 9 p.m. Seven. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of the SMC and DeSUS sent groups to the third chapter. We're voting. 85 Members and Members are present. The vote was 79, and no one was against it. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SMC and DeSUS sent groups to chapter four. We're voting. 85 Members and Members are present. The vote was 79, and no one was against it. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted at the home work body or at the meeting of the National Assembly would make the proposal for a declaration inconsistent. We are moving on to a full decision on the proposal for a declaration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u271	Thank you, Mr. President. The decoration that we accept or decide about today is about Slovenia, located in a European Union and in a world that actually leads to a policy that leads to exclusion and the problems we face today in the world. In fact, this declaration agrees with all the inequalities produced by the European Union in such a way that it refers to this equality of the European Union. Because we see Slovenia, which should play a role in the European Union, which would be different, more solidarity, more fair, more equal, we will vote against this declaration in the United Left against.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u272	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Nova Slovenija Group, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u273	Thank you for your word, Mr. President! Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Ministerial Assembly, Colleagues and Colleagues! The New Slovenia Group will support the proposal for a declaration on the foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia. We estimate that it is good that the European Union is listed as a valuable and political framework as a fundamental value and political framework. The European Union has been decided in the most democratic way by citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and it is good that the membership of the Republic of Slovenia in NATO is presented as a fundamental framework for ensuring national security. The membership of the Republic of Slovenia was then decided in the most democratic manner in the referendum by citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. It is good that in the Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia it is clear that the Republic of Slovenia is a Central European country, we have always been Slovenians in Central Europe, always in its history and, of course, that the Republic of Slovenia is also a maritime state. In view of the very high frequency and dynamic events that take place both within Europe and globally, it is right that we also have in the declaration the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, on behalf of the Government, to present annually to the National Assembly an assessment on the development of international relations and the situation of the Republic of Slovenia in the international community, in view of the objectives and priorities of the declaration and the strategic document, and on this basis the National Assembly for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Slovenia will form positions or guidelines. In the December 1999 timeline – today, July 2015, many things happened, changed both in Europe, globally and even in Slovenia. We assess in the New Slovenia Group that this political document, a declaration, is also a good basis for a strategic document that has already been introduced to the members of the Committee on Foreign Policy and we expect the Government to adopt it as soon as possible. Our intimate wish, and my personal wish, is that this document, a declaration adopted without a vote against. For in every wise country, the foreign policy policy speaks with a single voice. Therefore, we would also expect the declaration to be adopted at least without a vote against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u274	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Mag Group Branislav Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u275	Thank you for your word! Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers and ministers! The Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia responds to the long-standing need to redefine the long-term direction of the Republic of Slovenia in the international community. This is a major step that has gone through a number of activities in all social areas. Already in its pre-election programme, the SMC has planned to revise the declaration and foreign policy strategy in order to identify the fundamental national interests and priorities of our country and society. In the framework of the Coalition Treaty, we have also pledged that coalition partners will renew the foreign policy declaration, which will be adopted in the National Assembly through coalition and parliamentary coordination and after a public debate with the broadest possible agreement in the first half of 2015. And it's true, at the end of the summer, we put a declaration on the parliamentary bench. It will allow for the unification of Slovenian foreign policy and the exercise of the supervisory and corrective function of the National Assembly. Diplomacy as a service of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs remains a central tool of Slovenian foreign policy. In the SMC Group, we strongly advocated that the discussion on the draft declaration exceeded the framework of the Committee on Foreign Policy and that it also included the general public, the academic community, representatives of NGOs from the relevant areas and representatives of the economy. Today we are ahead of the final act to confirm the document on which we can be proud, as it is based on the promotion of human rights, democracy and the rule of law, the establishment of good neighbourly and other two- and more foreign relations, the promotion of the Republic of Slovenia and its economic operators in the international community, the active role in the international organisations of which our country is a member, and the active participation in the process of international development cooperation. The Declaration clearly defines the foreign policy objectives of our country: peace, security, political stability and prosperity of the Republic of Slovenia, good neighbourly relations, the reputation and visibility of the Republic of Slovenia as successful members of the European Union, the wider hinterland of Central Europe, the Western Balkans, the Mediterranean and so on. Anyone who cares about our country, for the well-being of us and our craftsmen, will not hesitate to support this declaration. Few are subjects such as today, of which all Members can be so united. We will support it in our Group of Members, and I urge you to do the same. Is this not a symbolic act that will show our citizens and citizens that we are all, regardless of the variety of client programmes, but from [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u276	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SD Group, Mr Matjaž Germany.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u277	After 1999, we are finally receiving the most important foreign policy act. Almost all political parties participated in this document, and several times there is talk about the fact that politics cannot come together; almost all of us, except for one political party, have made it clear with our content and our intention to put Slovenia at some time and in some place. From now on, all the political, external political forces of Slovenia will work together. I'm talking about the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the Foreign Minister and all of us. On this occasion, I would like to tell you that the Social Democrats will unconditionally support this act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u278	Now, after the vote, we can go to the vote. Please sign up. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Mrs Marija A. Kovacič. No, no, no. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Mr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u279	Thank you for your word. Of course, it's not funny. As Mr German has said, this is the most important foreign policy act which, of course, cannot be supported in my personal name. I cannot support it, because it is not well thought out, especially in the geostrategic sense, I cannot support it, because it does not trouble the inequalities, as Dr. Vatovec has already said, I cannot support it either, because we write down that Slovenia is a maritime state and we do not have a Directorate. This has been reduced to one 7 people there, and this is in Ljubljana, instead of being at sea, for people to see this seaworthiness. And I cannot support him, and I will vote against him as a sign of protest. Why? I myself have somehow fallen into the United Left to cover a good part of so-called parliamentary diplomacy. I will also vote against it because certain people who have gone into politics from professoral positions are not aware of it. In particular, I am talking about the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in particular the Minister of Finance, and I am also talking about a number of moves by the President of the Republic of Slovenia. When we go abroad, we represent Slovenia, and even I, whose 'nickname' is the Indecent Fireman, when I weigh words and think about what I will say, and that is why I will vote against – and I hope that this term will continue to be called gentlemen and we all have a little thought before we go abroad and represent Slovenia. We have a whole series of problems, many of the countries we go to, many of the ambassadors and ambassadors with whom I meet and talk, also come from countries with a whole range of problems, but of course we must not act in the way of blubbering. If Franz Trček has learned the basics of diplomacy, I expect the rest. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u280	We are moving to a full vote on the Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. with those amendments that have been adopted. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 64 votes against 5. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the declaration has been accepted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Draft Fiscal Rule Act under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. Seven. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Before we move to a decision, I would like to remind you that in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 148 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a two-thirds majority of all Members are required for the adoption of each amendment and, later, a total of 60 or more. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 3. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the SDS Group shall be mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u281	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honourable Government, President of the Government, Minister of Finance! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have tabled an amendment to Article 3 of this Act with the aim of making this fiscal law more stable and making the fiscal formula more stable, so that its effects are more stable for the financial, economic, social situation in the country. Indeed, with this formula, we will achieve that, with the changes in GDP, there will be fewer fluctuations on the expenditure side. This formula is actually tested. It has already been tested in a country that has a very stable public finances compared to us and also with some European countries, particularly the European Union, and that is Switzerland. And with regard to the realisation of this formula itself, the functioning of this formula has no problems or some dilemmas that occur in all other formulas. With this amendment, of course, we will ensure that fiscal law works more effectively, at the same time ensuring that this law actually works in accordance with Article 148 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and that the lives of people, citizens and citizens are so much easier or much easier and much more predictable. Financial policies of any government will also be predictable, and social policies, economic policies, development policies will be predictable; in short, this formula and this amendment of ours will ensure greater stability in the functioning of fiscal law. For this reason, of course, I propose that you support the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u282	So we decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 3. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 59. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 59.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 8. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Articles 9, 10 and 15 shall become irrelevant. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u283	Thank you for your word, Mr. President! I will explain in the bloc the amendments to Articles 8, 9, 10 and 15, because this is the same thing as the composition of the Fiscal Council. The fiscal council will be adopted, although we hope that it will not be, but after the potential adoption of the fiscal rule today, an institution that will set out a three-year budgetary framework that will determine when, under exceptional circumstances, a fiscal rule can be suspended and will in fact become the most important fiscal body in this country, says the most important authority that determines the budgetary policy in this country. With this, the Fiscal Council is not some technical, technocrat organ, but it is a deeply political body. Therefore, the current composition of the three members, which is called the Government, seems inadequate and we propose that the composition be pluralised to extend to five members, and that representatives of different spheres of society will get their vote in it; it is said that employers as well as employees as representatives of the Government, because this ensures at least some basic democracy of that body and therefore, in essence, through these four articles, we propose that the composition of the Fiscal Council be changed in this way. Of course, we will support these amendments, but we expect wider support on behalf of democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u284	So we are voting on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 8. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 6 votes against 77. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 77.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment of the United Left Group to Article 8 has not been adopted, amendments to Articles 9, 10 and 15 have become irrelevant. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 11. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u285	Thank you very much. Dear President, Government, colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian Democratic Party is proposing an amendment that would actually give the Fiscal Council a bigger role. It's the right thing to do. Indeed, according to the proposal of the coalition or government, in fact, in the control of financial policy, economic, social policy, etc. The government and the government are very active in controlling themselves. In fact, the government does not have an overseer in order to make this law a reality. This would, of course, be the Fiscal Council, but with all the amendments proposed, in fact the Fiscal Council has become some consultative body of the Government, which will not have any special role. Perhaps he will take note of some of his opinions to the National Council, and the Government will also send an opinion to the National Assembly on what he actually wrote. However, in order to have a role to ensure effective control of the government, he will not have that. Our proposal also ensures that the Fiscal Council and, of course, government policy will operate in accordance with the Constitution, Article 148 of the Constitution, while the Government and the coalition propose that all measures taken should be seen in the light of the Stability and Growth Pact. Of course, there is a difference between the Stability and Growth Pact and the Constitution. We've talked about this before. The Constitution in fact sets out what fiscal rule means, of course it also provides that income and expenditure without debt must be equal, while the Stability and Growth Pact does not provide for this. And here, of course, we consider, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, that it is possible, therefore, that the Fiscal Rule Act would be contrary to the Constitution, which would, of course, also ease this doubt at least in part. We therefore propose in the Slovenian Democratic Party that, for the first time, ensure the role of the Fiscal Council as supervisor of the Government, and for the second time, of course, to ensure that the Fiscal Council and the Fiscal Law act in accordance with the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u286	We therefore decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 11. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 60. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 60.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 12. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u287	Thank you, Mr President, once again for your word. In the United Left, as we have pointed out all day long, we are concerned about the consequences of the fiscal rule for the social state. Indeed, after all the studies that we have, or after all the calculations that we have seen in the simulation of the Ministry of Finance, we can expect very severe cuts in public consumption, and the application of the social rights guaranteed by Article 2 of the Constitution in Slovenia will be compromised. Therefore, by way of action, the amendment to Article 12 adds a new guardian to the Fiscal Rule Act, a new exception to the application of the fiscal rule. It is decided that the fiscal rule can also be suspended if the Fiscal Council finds that the envisaged cuts in the budgetary framework will require social rights to this extent in order to jeopardise their application. Here I would like to remind representatives of the Government and other political parties of the 103rd Article of the Charter of the United Nations, which states as follows: "If the conflict between the obligations of Members of the United Nations under this Charter and their obligations under any other inter-State agreement prevails over their obligations under this Charter." This means, in other words, that Article 2 of the Constitution, which guarantees social rights, is above Article 148 of the Constitution, which lays down a fiscal rule or otherwise; the State is first obliged to provide for social rights and only then for the Stability and Growth Pact, which is defined here as some other inter-State agreement. That is why we hope that the Charter of the United Nations will be adhered to and that we will incorporate this safeguard into fiscal rule so that the social rights of citizens and citizens will not be jeopardised by a fiscal rule. In the United Left, of course, I will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u288	Explanation of the vote on behalf of Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u289	Thank you for your word. It makes me sad that I'm the only one. You know these official documents of our co-worker's house and co-workers. You also know this sign or someone would say logo. I admit that every day, literally every day, even on Saturdays and Sundays, at least a few times a day, I look at this logo and read what it says here. You know, the 1st article is fixed and up here on the right or on the left, if I look to show you, it says, "Slovenia is a legal and social state." Why is the fiscal rule that you today refer to as the Holy Grail and connect it with the household and with the cars, and I will talk more about this when I explain my voice, dangerously especially for this second part of Article 2 of the Constitution, because you will adopt a fiscal rule in this bound bargain. I hope you have at least enough empathy and responsibility to the people to support our amendment and install this fuse so that the fiscal rule will not overtake the social state of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course I'll vote in favour. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u290	We therefore decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 12. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 6 votes against 80. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against the 80.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 16. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u291	Thanks again. Amendment to 16. in the United Left, we propose that the first budget be drawn up in accordance with the fiscal rule only in 2017, for 2018. Why, we have heard many times today in the debate, including on the other hand, in the government inequality of the fiscal rule that will apply if the rule is applied today, it will take a considerable amount of cuts or cuts in budgetary spending over the next three years, says 2016, 2017 and 2018. We must be aware that our economy is just getting out of the crisis, that growth is currently extremely fragile and that many media are warning against the possibility of a third recession. If we are still at risk of freezing or even reducing public spending under fiscal rule cooling economic growth in such critical times, we can produce a result that we will kill economic growth and that Slovenia will be rolling in the crisis from which we are now in 2014 after years of finally digging and seeing some light at the end of the tunnel. We therefore propose that the application of the fiscal rule should be suspended, which is not contrary to the international treaty we signed, namely that the first fiscal rule or the first budget be drawn up in 2017 for 2018. This, for the first time, buy time for our economy to consolidate economic growth in the coming years, and for the second time, we may also buy time to question the Stability Pact in Europe. In fact, if I quote again Minister Marble, which I have already quoted today, I quote: "The European Stability Pact is extremely restrictive and is therefore the very subject of many discussions and here is the great question in Europe whether it is even appropriate, especially given the difference in growth between the United States, which has been rejected as inappropriate, but it has its monetary policy and now there is a growth of about 4% of gross domestic product, and the EU, where growth is now around 0.8% of domestic product. If we buy two additional years, we may also get time to think about our instructions to the members on how to run fiscal policy. However, we will certainly do a great service to our economy in the next two, three years, because it will have significantly more breathing space than ever. That is why, of course, in the United Left, we will support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u292	We therefore decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 16. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 6 votes against 80. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against the 80.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since in the second reading the amendments to the amended bill were not adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. I also inform you that, pursuant to the third paragraph of Article 148 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, if at least two thirds of all Members vote for it, that is, 60 or more. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u293	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The Ministry of Finance simulation, which shows what effects on public consumption and economic growth would have on fiscal rule if implemented over the past years, we can see the following things: in 2002 Slovenia had 3.8% economic growth and 600 million euro budget deficits. If this year's fiscal rule were to be applied in accordance with the formula or inequality proposed by the Government, this year's budget should have 100 million surpluses, the real difference should be 700 million, seven hundred million cuts would be needed this year. Which means that this year, for example, the country's financial social assistance amounted to 350 million and if they were to be abolished, they would only be halfway through the necessary fiscal effort to satisfy the inequalities proposed in this law. What effects on public health, education and social welfare would that have, you can imagine for yourself. Furthermore, this year Slovenia recorded 3.8% of economic growth and this is not unrelated to the budget deficit. If these 700 million were excluded from public spending and the multiplier was the same as it was during the crisis, it would be 1.7 in 2002, according to our indicative calculations, 3% lower economic growth, it is said that growth would not be 3.8%, but 0.8%. Furthermore, this year's debt did not increase, but it decreased relatively over the period and the main reasons were; for the first time, economic growth, i.e. public debt, is always measured in relation to gross domestic product and moderate inflation. These are also the only historically proven ways of reducing public debt, no country except possibly Ceauşesco Romania, which has gone so far as to rationalise egg consumption, has dug itself out of public debt in a way of saving, without, of course, causing the disaster they saw in that country. As Dr. Franjo Štiblar put it well, the theory of fiscal rule is harmful, norm is uncontrollable, and empiria is wrong. This is also why fiscal rules in the history of capitalism have not been applied, especially in countries without their own currency, such as Slovenia. Risk is simply too great, there is no room for people in the fiscal formula and we will therefore vote against this law in the United Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u294	Please don't disturb those who explain their voice during the speech. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SD Group, Mr Jan Škoberne.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u295	Thank you very much, Madam President. Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Our fundamental task is, of course, to ensure equal opportunities for all citizens and citizens, to ensure that everyone creates his or her well-being and that we provide the community with the opportunity to make progress and develop. This can be done by a stable country which is not even in debt to the neck or by excessively irrational cuts does not take the opportunity to intervene in cases of emergency, in case of economic emergency or in case of events that are not affected in any way or in any way. Because, of course, it is the intention of this coalition, these governments, the proponents and not least of us, the Social Democrats, to ensure sustainable development, to ensure that we can help ourselves create a positive curve and growth at times of crisis and that we do not lose our heads in times when this growth is on the march, it is important that we support this compromise proposal for a fiscal rule today. We have decided to support this proposal mainly because we have received clear assurances that in cases where economic growth or other extraordinary events occur, this law allows the suspension of rules and allows us to protect citizens and citizens, their social standards and their development opportunities. The Social Democrats will be supported by five votes in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u296	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u297	Dear colleagues and colleagues, if you look around and look outside your ranks, especially those Members who have served in this Parliament more than 2, 3 mandates, and if you have spoken to them, then they will be able to tell you that there have been better times in Slovenia. The times when there was much more talk in this Chamber about how and how the budget would be divided and what we would create. Those of us who were elected in 2011 and later have fallen into situations where we have a lot of time to deal with and, above all, devote ourselves to how to bring our opportunities and capabilities into the given fiscal framework. Sometimes it's a very unpleasant job. It's not the most popular thing to be a politician these days. We've already adopted the ZUJF, we know how angry there was, how discontent, but when we look back from some time perspective, we will find that this was the right move. Nor will we today be rewarded with political points, nor with people's approval when we adopt a fiscal rule. But I am sure that this is necessary for the future. In the short term, of course, people will be dissatisfied and it may seem that short-term negative consequences are likely, but in the long term these measures will certainly give a better future to our youngest. Why? Because the burden of debt, our debt, our debt is like a snowball. Once it starts rolling, it always increases and increases until it's unstoppable. And once you can't stop her, she burys everything that comes under her. This has happened in Greece and we have yet another last and rare chance of stopping this snowball today, at this moment. Therefore, the New Slovenia Group will vote in favour of the fiscal rule.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u298	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Group, Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u299	Thank you very much. I would like to remind you that it has been a year since the other early elections in our country were held. In these elections, we appeared as novelists with three fundamental commitments. The first commitment was to respect the rule of law, the second commitment to enable us to establish a new development model, a broad development model for this country, a third commitment to restore political confidence in the fundamental institutions of this country. This also refers to the adoption of fiscal law today. That is why this fiscal law will receive 35 reliable votes from the SMC Group. Why? A constitutional amendment to Article 148 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia was adopted years ago, but it did not have the political will to be implemented in the relevant constitutional law. That's what we're doing today. In this connection, this constitutional law is important as a framework that will allow not only a financial framework for the further development of our operations, but also a framework for economic, social and sustainable development, stabilisation, first of all our actions. Third thing. What we are doing today also restores the credibility and mission of political parties in democratic systems. Returns in terms of responsible action for its citizens and for the country. Therefore, the support of the SMC Group is a reflection of the commitment to a good attitude towards our country and its citizens in its good and bad times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u300	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u301	Thank you very much. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have always said that the country must spend as much as it creates. As a result, and from this point of view, the amendment of Article 148 of the Constitution has also arisen. Under this Article, the Slovenian Democratic Party has twice introduced a fiscal rule law into the parliamentary procedure, but for such or other reasons, perhaps political prestige, was not supported at the time and was in fact rejected both by the previous coalition and by the current coalition. The law that was proposed was based on solutions that had already been examined and that had already worked in other countries. We also wanted to improve this law in the current process. We worked with lawmakers, but our proposals, our basic proposals were not heard, were not adopted. It was not accepted that this law would be based on solutions that would ensure greater stability of financial policy and thus enhance the stability and security of economic and social policy. This solution has not been adopted from a possible point of view to me and to us today in the completeness of unexplained substantive reasons. The solutions to the fact that the government, which must be implementing fiscal law, would also keep the Fiscal Council in all its size if you wanted to, in all its power, not adopted. The fiscal world itself will be the purpose, the consultative body that the government will be able to take into account, it will not be able to take into account, and above all it will be the 'postmaster for the dissemination of the opinions of the Fiscal Council'. In short, solutions that actually provide greater operationality and, of course, greater certainty for people have not been adopted. For this reason, we will not support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u302	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Alliance of Mags. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u303	The fiscal rule is a step that will lead us into real fiscal frameworks in the long term. Today we were able to listen to a lot of things, but this is a fact: in the long run we can only spend as much as we create. Because we are aware of our responsibility and are aware that, as politicians, we can and will influence our future, and especially our children's future, all four Members of the Alliance's Group will support this law. Once again, I warn both the Minister and the President that the road here is not yet finished, that a few more steps will have to be taken, that the rules of procedure will be amended, that the Public Finance Act will be amended, and, of course, we expect, as you have somehow promised or given the floor, that we will also be invited to join in these procedures. And in the end. From beautiful words, there will be no better future, only actions that will lead us all into a better and better future.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u304	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Desus Group, Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u305	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we have devoted a great deal of time to coordinating the fiscal rule. We were aware that this was one of the most important documents to be adopted this year. It was crucial for us that within the fiscal rule, the weakest groups of our people would not be affected too much. Here we focus on pensioners, recipients of social assistance, as well as, of course, all those workers who receive minimum wages. We know that these effects will not be spared in the short term. We are aware, however, that the long-term adoption of the fiscal rule brings more effective actual results for the country, for the community in which we live. I have to admit, I'm thinking straight and simple myself. If we look at the farm economy, the master always knows that he must and can only spend as much as he will grow in that year. If we look at the household, perhaps two pensioners who have an average pension in Slovenia, knows exactly how much money they receive or pensions in one year and, of course, they can also spend. That is why I would like to conclude by telling you that all ten members of the Desus Group will support the proposed law or fiscal rule.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u306	Any other explanation for the voice? In your own name, please sign in. Explanation of the vote in its own name Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u307	Thank you for your word. I don't know if you know people who buy a loaf of fresh bread every day, but they've been eating that since yesterday, since the day before, because it's worth saving. They never afford a piece of fresh cartilage, even though they can afford it because they buy it every day. I feel sorry for people like that. The fiscal rule, in short, will be extremely harmful for the country, as it will severely restrict the country's development, social and anti-crisis measures. There is no room in the fiscal equation for the social state, no room for public health, no public education, no room for pensioners or students. Nevertheless, to my great regret, the government and a large number of our Members are deciding this moment to give citizens a forced vest. I will not personally participate in the burial of the social state, I will wash my hands here and vote against the fiscal rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u308	Explanation of the vote on behalf of Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u309	Thank you for your word. I'll start with a quote. "From that moment on, when it is said, even though it would be in the deepest intimacy of the subject, the language is in the service of power. It shall necessarily draw two sections: the authority of the claim, the severity of the repetition." And continues Roland Barthes in the text Learning Hour: "... the sign is copyical, is solid; in every sign sleeps this monster: stereotype..." Today we have listened to a lot of hardness, a lot of stereotypes in the fiscal rule, about Greece and more. Young Mr. Social Democrats, watch out for Social Democrats, he said, "We've got clear assurances," probably not so clear because not all six of you will vote in favour – but are you kidding? What are the clear assurances from whom? Minister of Finance? Mr. Cerar? I don't know, he can get hit by a troll, but there's no clear guarantee anymore. If we were to think seriously, at least we would support our two amendments, the first of which concerns the social state and is a social security guard and the second one is an economic protector at a time when we came out of the recession. That's the radicality of the United Left. The United Left is a social state and an economy. And you gentlemen are afraid of this radicality. I will be able to look in the mirror tomorrow; you, many are tomorrow, the morning, etc. - I don't know if you can. Of course, I will vote against it because, after all, I will still be partially pathetic, and it's also about the children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u310	Explanation of the vote in his own name, Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u311	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen! My pressure on the "yes" button in the vote on the proposal of the Fiscal Rule Act will be because I want to finally implement the so-called fiscal pact after a long time tonight. Why do we have to implement it? Because in the Constitution and in the logo of the National Assembly, it says, "Slovenia is a legal and social state." And the rule of law must respect international treaties. So today is the fourth step. The first step was on 2 March 2012, when, on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, then Prime Minister, signed a Stability Treaty, on the coordination and management of the Economic and Monetary Union between the 25 Member States of the European Union or less, the Treaty on the Fiscal Pact ratified by the Slovenian National Assembly, i.e. this House, April 2012. And that was the second step, ratification. Third step, 23 May 2013, when the constitutional amendment of Article 148 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia was voted. And so today we are in the final stage of the implementation of the Treaty. What is the purpose of the contract? The aim of the Treaty is to strengthen the economic pillar of the Economic and Monetary Union with a set of rules to strengthen budgetary discipline, by fiscal strengthening, strengthening economic policy coordination and improving the governance of the euro area, while at the same time supporting the objectives of ensuring sustainable growth in employment, competitiveness and social cohesion. This is the content of the contract, as well as the content of today's fourth phase of the implementation of the fiscal pact. That's why we need this. The country needs this document.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u312	Explanation of the vote in its own name Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u313	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr President! The over-expenditure economy and, consequently, the debt economy have not been proven to work. At this point, we can be sure of the case of the Greek tragedy. That's why we need a fiscal rule. That is why I will also support today's implementing law on the fiscal rule. So it's about our own commitments, about our own self-restraint, that we're only going to spend as much as we're going to create. This is the economy of all households, which we all know very well. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I would like to stress that if there is no limitation on spending, if the logic of the fiscal rule fails, the loss of economic sovereignty follows bankruptcy. For this reason, let us be accountable not only to us but to our last generations who will pay these questions. In the past, the Republic of Slovenia has not been responsible and has overexpenditured. Overexpenditure is the reason why we are paying a billion euros for interest today. This is a little less than the entire annual pension. Ladies and gentlemen! Because I don't want my children to pay back our overexpenditure, I'm going to support the implementing law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u314	Explanation of the vote in its own name Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u315	Thank you very much. Slovenia has been spending too much, but some have been spending too much. We know that for a hundred million, two hundred million and so on, some have made a hole for a few billion that the country has collected, and we are paying taxpayers. This is a household that I do not agree to; some have the right to over-expenditure, while others have the duty to pay for it and the fiscal rule will say so. When in a few years – as is absolutely reliable, because this is how the neoliberal capitalist economy works, where the state cannot control consumption in the free market – once again a huge bank hole, dozens and hundreds of companies will be in debt, the state will take over again, for example, four billion debts of this and, of course, a fiscal rule will say that we cannot fix this otherwise, decide whether we will fix the banks – which we will certainly do, because banks are first, meaning that we will end health, education, education, lower pensions and because there will be no money for health, education and so on, we will also privatise it nicely. And that's the goal of this fiscal rule. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u316	Explanation of the voice in his own name, Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u317	Thank you for your word, chairman. The fiscal rule is supposed to serve as a buffer against the debt crisis, but in the United Left we oppose it because this claim that the fiscal rule is a fuse and the only protector against the debt crisis simply does not drink water. This rejection of government fiscal inequality certainly does not mean bankruptcy, as we have heard today, but it also means that the fiscal rule is not a neutral tool, but is placed in part of some neoliberal strategy to reduce the public sector and increase the share of capital in the activities of a company. Very concretely, we are talking about delicacy, about modification, we are talking about less public goods and more commercially paid services. The Minister of Finance acknowledged, inter alia, that the fiscal rule is an economic dispute and that it is particularly problematic in a country that does not have its own monetary policy, even if we are talking about the monetary policy of a system that is in fact adapted to the strong countries – in the case of the euro we are talking about Germany, which has a scissors and canvas in the euro area – and this monetary policy goes against the interests of Slovenia and Germany. In addition, I would like to point out that Slovenia is far from bankrupt. At least since 2011, Slovenian companies and the economy have been creating more than they spent. Last year, for example, the surplus of the balance of payments was already EUR 2.2 billion. The claims about how the country is a household and how we live beyond our capabilities are, of course, not true. If we were to solve the long problem naturally, as it was after 2002, with economic growth and higher revenues, we would not need fiscal rules. Despite the large external surplus, which will exceed 6.3% of gross social product in 2016, the government does not intend to increase revenues with some fair taxes, for example by tax on profits. I'm going against this harmful policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u318	Explanation of the vote on behalf of Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u319	Your Honor! I will not support the fiscal rule law for the reason that we have recently argued that Slovenia can solve its problems on its own and that is why we have also restricted the call for a referendum in Slovenia and literally watered the banks with billions of euros. So, what are we doing today? Instead of continuing this path, we are binding a fiscal rule on European regulations, and European regulations, respected, are saving large countries. See the example of Greece, the large countries have granted non-insured loans to Greece, with the change of European regulations they have transferred these obligations to us. With fiscal rule, Slovenia will actually become a peripheral country if you want the province of large countries and on the French-German train we will only be able to burn the pollen that they can burn at any time. I am also convinced that, through the constitutional majority, we can adopt a fiscal rule only in the context of exceptional economic growth, an extremely stable financial system and the great well-being of our people. And what do we have in Slovenia? 410 thousand people on the verge of social sustainability and this can only be resolved through economic growth with effective support from the banking system. So, what are we doing? We sell the agri-food chain to foreigners, the Bank Management Company sells to foreigners – that is, we must not market nature – and 11 billion assets do not have the public financial aspect addressed, and we are also selling or not building Luke Koper to exploit our geostrategic position, we are selling to Telekom and the European Commission is also preventing us from effectively financing banks or lending banks to our economy. What are we doing with the banks? We have donated the New Credit Bank to the US Treasury and also the Postal Bank, and this fund has already announced the takeover of the Slovenian banking system. So, respectable, the development of Slovenia will depend on US investment through the banking system and this will not fill the state budget, will not fill the municipal budgets, will not fill. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u320	Explanation of the vote on behalf of Dr. Franz Runczek, I give you a reminder. [[…]] Explanation on behalf of Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u321	Thank you, Mr. President. Today, Minister Maramor said some significant things in his experience about the implementing law on fiscal rules. He gave some options for a way out of the crisis. One is that, of course, something such as a fiscal rule is adopted, another is the issue or printing of new money, and another is a combination. Slovenia, because it does not have its own currency and has no other influence, is left only to implement the fiscal rule. So much for this policy to solve this crisis. In addition, he reiterated what he said already in January, and this is that the European Stability Pact is much more appropriate for Germany than it is for Slovenia, and still that the European Central Bank’s monetary policy is essentially focused on the economic situation of Germany, not on Slovenia. What fiscal rule will bring is that it will, in fact, expose the Slovenian economy, eventually dismantle the Slovenian social state and bring the burden on those who are already living at the threshold or below the poverty threshold, and those who are slightly above that threshold have pushed at that threshold or below that threshold. Because this is a long-term harmful policy for Slovenia, especially for its inhabitants, we will vote against or vote against the United Left in our own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u322	Explanation of the vote in its own name mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u323	Yes, thank you very much! Unlike the predecessors, I think it is generally beneficial for the state to spend as much as it does, without being indebted, and that debts are not the basis of the debt – that debts are not the basis for growth, I apologize. However, I will not support this fiscal rule law because, for the first time, it does not give the optimum effect, mainly in terms of calculating expenditure in the event of a fall in economic growth by 0.1%. At that time, expenditure will fall by 0.5% of the gross social product, in other words, for half the social contributions, expenditure will have to be deducted, which is too much. Maybe even pensions, which is too much. For this reason, of course, this law is inoptimal and therefore actually constitutes a greater restriction than it should have been if we had any other formula here. This is, of course, in such a case that Slovenia can happen. And the other thing. Slovenia is a rule of law and the Constitution is above all other acts, not a pact of stability and growth. The Constitution sets out what financial policy must be like and here this law actually refers to the Stability and Growth Pact. Because, in some cases, this law will be too restrictive both in the field of social, pensions and so on, because this formula ensures this, therefore, due to excessive restrictiveness, I do not support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u324	Apparently, there's another round of reasons in his own name. Please sign up. Explanation of the vote in its own name, Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u325	Thank you for your word. "It's a long sin, his repaying is the penance of forgiveness." This was the assumption of the moral philosophers Smith, Locke and Hummes. On the other hand, John Stuart Mill wrote: "Indebt makes sense if the income achieved from the borrowed funds is higher than the interest rate on the loan." The first lesson for moral philosophers today is German politics with Wolfgang Schäubl at the helm and other European countries, followed by the Anglo-Saxon World, particularly the United States of America. The differences are obvious. The United States of America came out of the crisis a year after it broke out, with 8% more of their GDP today than it was before the outbreak of the crisis. The European Union has not only experienced one recession, but has artificially triggered another because of its principle that it is a long sin and that it must be paid by way of forgiveness, i.e. by tightening the belts, and after eight years of the outbreak of the crisis, we are still one percent below the level of GDP that we have achieved before the crisis. In short, the difference between the first and the second principles, between whether we follow moral theology or follow some rational economy, is 9% of GDP in the eight years of the crisis. And that's what we decide today. As a socialist, I can also look at the world through these pragmatic capitalist glasses, and even when I look at the world through pragmatic capitalist glasses, I know which, if I use a popular phrase, which household, if you choose which principle it will work, will be richer. That is why, of course, I will decide against the principle of moral philosophy being followed in the 21st century. The second issue – just as a footnote – when they began to solve the debt crisis with savings in Greece, in 2010, was its debt was 120% of GDP, today it is 180. So much for the success of this rescue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u326	Is there any other explanation for the voice in your own name? No, no, no. So we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a fiscal rule law in its entirety. I inform you that, on the basis of the third resignation of Article 148 of the Constitution, the law will be adopted if at least two thirds of all Members vote for it, 60 or more. We're voting. There were 87 Members and Members present and 62 votes against. [[The vote was 67.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the law has been passed. Procedural Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u327	Dear Presidents, because you gave me a reminder because I had applauded before, let the Rules of Procedure be the same for all, and I expect you to give a reminder to all those who have now applauded. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u328	I hereby conclude this agenda item. Matjaž Hanžek, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u329	The President, and I demand or protest the unequal treatment of Members, who are all the same; one for flattering receive a reminder, the other for flattering do not receive a reminder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u330	I continue with the 13th paragraph of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law implementing the customs rules of the European Community under the ordinary procedure. As the second reading of the amendments to the amended draft law has not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body made the proposal of the law inconsistent. We're voting. 87 Members and Members are present. There were 87 votes in favour, and no one was against it. [[The vote was 87.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 17th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Company Act under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 10. Seven. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2(1). We're voting. 86 Members and Members are present. The vote was 30, and the vote was 55. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 55.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2(2). We're voting. 87 Members and Members are present. 20 votes and 60 votes. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 60.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SMC, DeSUS and SD to Article 2. We're voting. 86 Members and Members are present. The vote was 62 and against 1. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2(4). We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present. There were 27 votes in favour and 55 votes in favour. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 55.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2(5). We're voting. 85 Members and Members are present. There were 24 votes in favour and 54 votes in favour. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 54.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 2. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the Joint Left Group shall become irrelevant to Article 2(2). The explanation for the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u331	Maybe someday we'll be the United Christian Democrats, too. A united right, that's right. Our amendment proposes a very concrete matter, namely, the bill stipulates that if they get an entrepreneur, that he has broken the law twice in three years and that he has been given an inspection by the Financial Administration or that the State has proved his criminal activity and imprisoned his company. So, if I shorten and make it very simple, if it's a businessman who got caught up in irregularities, in criminal activities, and the company shuts him down, then now this new law stipulates that he can't set up a company for one year. Our amendment, however, suggests that this be extended to three years. So it is a longer and more severe penalty for those who do not respect the rules of the game, who are bad entrepreneurs and who do good and honest entrepreneurs harm. This amendment does not harm good entrepreneurs, but excludes bad and criminals from the game. I'm sure you're not risking anything, even if you're coalitionly coordinated, if you support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u332	An explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors is given by Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u333	In the United Left, we will support the amendment of the New Slovenia Group, because it is largely similar to what we have tabled, it is said that for those companies that have found violations of labour rights, this ban should be extended from one year to three It is a minimum which, of course, punishes such practices and would also deter people who own such enterprises in advance to continue to do so. This is how we will support this amendment of New Slovenia in the United Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u334	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors of the Alliance, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u335	I'll be very brief because at this hour, I don't think anyone listens to you anymore. We will support it because it is a consistent proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u336	We therefore vote on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 2. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 47. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 2. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group United Left Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u337	Thank you for your word, chairman. In short, because we were very close to accepting this amendment, we will repeat the exercise in style. Maybe someone will change their mind. We do come from a variety of ideological positions. Coalition our versus New Slovenia, but obviously the only one we stand for is the economy. Of course, we have different views on ownership, economic democracy, etc. The contents of the amendment are almost identical. We extend this sentence to owners of companies that have grave infringements of workers' rights, if I may say so, from one to three years. It is already very clear that in the proposal for a law this penalty is so low, just one year, that the ideological basis of the current coalition and also the rather unreality of this bill is very clear. I heard a lot about the household metaphor today. If we look at the economy through this metaphor to make you understand, the Slovenian economy has been a dysfunctional household for twenty years. A very dysfunctional household, many of which correspond, many here are very well absorbed in jars of marmalade. We were talking about an investigator earlier. Personally, I would be more fond of Austrian practices because I am closer to Austria, because the last time I checked these laws, this penalisation is five years old, but since this probably would not have gone through, we – probably in New Slovenia – have thought similarly, and if you have not supported their proposal, it is not so late, Comrade Jani, we can think a little bit longer. If you need more thought, I can procedurally propose a half hour break to take it, and I hope you will support our amendment. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u338	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u339	Few times, New Slovenia and the United Left are aligned. Yes, it is. See, this proposal, which we have tabled or which has also been tabled in the United Left, is actually already popular. In the first option, when we went to the committee with the amendment, it was a sentence of five years, and then the lawyers – listen very well, because it might make it easier for you to get a favourable result now in the second round – lawyers said that 5 years is too much and that they could not control it or even enforce it. But for 3 years the matter is fine and can be decked in accordance with our legislation and is nominally fine. This is a completely simple political question, whether we are now as legislators willing to give those who break the rules and do not play in accordance with the rules, a slightly stricter penalty for this to be instructive, or whether we are on the side of those who are a little nicer. I said that in New Slovenia we do not know mercy for those who play the system. I said that we are punishing those entrepreneurs who have already been caught twice by an inspection, who have violated the law or that the state has imprisoned them for criminal activities. Very domestically. So now we're punishing the worst offenders. Once again, I really don't see what you would lose here as a coalition, but I would give a very strong message that it is no longer worth cheating in Slovenia. And here I think it's worth going through coalition agreements, because the message you've given honest entrepreneurs will be very useful and very positive. However, this matter is in accordance with existing legislation and will not be a problem of nomothenic or any other kind. Because I still have 52 minutes, 52 seconds, and since it's late, I'd say one more thing. President of the National Assembly, I would like you, too, to allow or allow us to show a little emotion in this House. Even if I do not agree with Mr Trčko, I do not see any problem in this if he applauds anyone, agrees with whom or if I applaud or approve loudly or disagree. I think we could use a little example of the English Parliament on such things, because if you listen and watch the recordings, I think they express their feelings very loudly there. I don't think it's a problem if we have a little voice in this House, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u340	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors of the Alliance, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u341	As in the previous case, we have no problem supporting this amendment. Two more words. All those who do not support this amendment will ask you at home for your health and will remind you that you really had the opportunity, but you did not want to. We support such an amendment. By the way, clapping is not in the rules of procedure, so it's purely the art of the President of the National Assembly. So, yeah. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u342	Explanation of the vote on behalf of Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u343	Yes, thank you for your word. There's a lot of talk in the mill. Before, of course, I somehow forgot to say that this proposal is also supported by trade unions. Mr Tonin explained well that we had to kneel through a legal lobby for three years. Here, in this Parliament, there are parties who sometimes say that they are part of a social threesome, in particular a party representing an older population, who, with honest work in a system that could have been totalitarian, but was less fraudulent in this area, earned their pensions. A party that says it's social-democratic, and indeed, if these two parties don't support this amendment, I think they have to change their name. Thank you for your word, I'll vote for it, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u344	Any other explanation for the voice? Any more procedural? Anybody want to take a break? You want me to assign him? So we are deciding on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 2. We're voting. 87 Members and Members are present. The vote was 44 and against 41. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Procedural Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u345	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u346	Dr. Franz Runczek, I give you a second warning. I gave you the first one because you jumped into my word with your clapping, not because you clapped. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 23. We're voting. 86 Members and Members are present. There were 26 votes in favour and 53 votes in favour. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 43. We're voting. 85 Members and Members are present. There were 25 votes in favour and 54 votes in favour. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 54.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 93. We're voting. 86 Members and Members are present. There were 24 votes in favour and 61 votes in favour. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 61.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 95. We're voting. 86 Members and Members are present. The vote was 30, and the vote was 55. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 55.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SMC, DeSUS and SD to Article 104. We're voting. 86 Members and Members are present. There were 76 votes in favour, against 4. [[The vote was 76.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments, thus concluding a second reading of the bill. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the motion for a bill suggested that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. 87 Members and Members were present and 87 were voted against and no one was present. [[The vote was 87.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The State Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill on Monday, 13. Seven. 2015, after the final vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to these Articles may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the adjourned 19th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Systemic Investigations of Projects of State Interest We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on systematic investigations of projects of state importance is appropriate for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group Dr Vinko Gorenak
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u347	Thank you very much. I'm glad the Prime Minister is with us. I think it's even more important. Ladies and gentlemen, we have received on the table some law called the Law on Systemic Investigations of Projects of State Interest. This is an investigation of state-of-the-art projects worth over 90 to 100 million. President, I will say so, but very fair, very frank and very serious: I have never seen such a marriage in my life. It would be very good – I believe you are still teaching in college – to give it to a student and to write from this seminar assignment because it is impossible what we Members have received. We got a marriage that doesn't have any substance. The law lays down simply who the investigators can be, then it is determined that the people who will invite them to the talks have the status of witnesses, cannot question them, do not have to answer questions and, of course, cannot collect any evidence against them. So we're married because of the marriage. This country and this government actually have 8,000 police officers, 200 prosecutors if you want. In the court we have 950 judges employed, these are the main institutions for the prosecution of any irregularities. We also have the Court of Auditors, the Audit Commission and all other law enforcement agencies. Let's not talk about KPK. Of course, with these commissions it is so amazing – I have too little time to say everything – but the law says that all state authorities must give all the information. This also means Banka Slovenije, this also means police, this also means prosecution. I can't imagine the D.A. giving the data to this committee. I can't imagine the police giving the data to this committee. Exceptions are covert investigative measures, where police have to explain specifically why they will not give this information to the Commission. It's a good thing the secretary listens. In short, the law is desperate. It would be wise to withdraw him from the procedure at this stage, and if there is anything to be done, make some law that will have a tail and a head, because this law of this tail and head has no and in my opinion is intended, forgive me, I will just say, serving money to thirty-fifty people. I can name them. Between 30 and 50 people will serve at the expense of this law, and the result will be what? Look, the result will be one report that you get on the table and nothing will happen. The police, the prosecution and the judiciary will still have to do all their work. Think about it, Mr. President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u348	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Mag Group Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u349	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, President of the Government, the Council of Ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! We have a law before us that regulates the matter that is new to our legal system. This is a new, different approach and a way to detect and prevent corruption in the political and economic sphere and represents one of the most important measures and counter-action processes of corruption, including the so-called capture of the state. This law lays down the legal basis for enabling mutual cooperation to date more or less between isolated existing supervisory and investigative authorities, which are limited in their procedures to powers and tasks and have in practice identified projects for certain state investments such as the construction of TES 6 and the bank hole as weak and incomplete in the full disclosure of suspicions of irregularity and impropriety and the identification of the causes and factors for it. In the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, we are on the basis of a reasoned position that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, so in this case we will vote in favour of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u350	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors of the Alliance, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u351	Thank you very much, President. Today we have listened to a lot of things, and now, in the end, not the minister, but in fact, even the coalition itself says that this marriage actually brings something new and that we will discover corruption. I always thought that we had KPK for this, I no longer understand what we actually have in the country or what we want. The government is already detecting corruption. In short, the matter is so misplaced, so supernova, there is so much conflict in it, and there is disharmony and disproportionateity that it is not really ripe for further discussion. In fact, it is not, it is simply not, because things do not go together anymore, they cannot be folded or, as they say in New Slovenia, without being corrected by this law, a new one has to be written. That's modern today. So I really suggest to the founders and authors of this law, give it, you have plenty of time, sit with the entire professional public, make some sort of round table, do some kind of consultation before you come to the National Assembly with these proposals. Because you know, it's about as if the Minister of Health came with a new law, and practically all the professional public would say it sucks. This simply will not work together; and we all refer to the profession all the time. We have just listed today not how many inconsistencies and illogicalities that this simply does not work together. Minister, we sincerely believe that your purpose was sincere, but let us once again believe that we honestly believe that this is not worth the normal procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u352	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u353	Thank you. Of course, this law, as it is now presented, has a type of flaw, in particular as regards the appointment of a commission, in particular those provisions which determine who may be appointed to this commission and in fact clearly indicates that we can count on the fingers of two hands who might be members. However, in the United Left, we believe that, given that this is the first reading of this law, we can support and there will be enough room for this law to be amended to such an extent that it will then also actually achieve its purpose, and this is to explore existing corrupt investments, state investments and, of course, those who will only prove themselves to be such. But if, of course, these amendments cannot be accepted, then we can oppose this law because it will not work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u354	So we're done explaining our voice and we can't? [[...]] In my own name. Please be able to log in on a procedural basis in this case. Explanation of the vote in its own name mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u355	Your Honor! The Constitution binds everything and everyone. This is one of the basic constitutional rules and the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides very clearly in Article 93 that an inquiry of particular importance may be called upon, but that Parliament should do so. The establishment of an investigative commission is the responsibility of Parliament by its very constitution, which, of course, has its purpose and purpose. In a given case, the government came up with something that tried to transfer it to the government. What's that gonna do? By making a pianist sigh that will obviously serve to persecute other thinkers, someone who will not like them, or any other way. For this is not the task of the government, ladies and gentlemen! The task of the government is to establish and manage the system by operating all parts of the system, by acting on the judiciary, by proposing appropriate acts by the Parliament, to create a situation for the normal functioning of the economy, to create conditions by opening up new quality jobs, which is the only permanent basis for every once-in-a-lifetime well-being. It is not, however, that it comes to Parliament with legal drawback, whose purpose is obviously merely to blur out what is happening precisely because of this law, that it is most obvious that this government is not capable of doing anything other than proposing acts whose sole purpose is to prevent or obstruct those who are all those objectives that I have talked about, which come from the Constitution itself, which are legitimate objectives, have also actually achieved effectively. And I'm sorry, ladies and gentlemen, this law is clearly inconsistent with the Constitution, is clearly inconsistent with the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia and is clearly inconsistent with fundamental democratic [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u356	Explanation of the vote on behalf of Mr Bojan Podkrodšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u357	Dear President, thank you for your word! Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, Ministerial Assembly! First of all, you asked us to calm down in the hall, talk to each other, or else I don't think there's any point in talking. If that's possible. Of course I'd explain my voice. I will vote against this because I sincerely believe that this bill is not capable of further consideration. Ladies and gentlemen, may I remind you, you've talked a lot about this marriage this evening. I have to admit, I'm not an expert on law, but I do find that this is one of the things that has gone wrong. You said yourself, let's hit this onion together, if I understand correctly. But I would say that, of course, this bill of yours has something in common. When you're in front of that peeled onion, your eye tears, and when you read this marriage of yours, the peacock must be tearin' your eye too. We heard from SMC today that this is something new. Every day is something new, distinguished minister, from you. With us is the President of the Government, of course, in front of him, I would say what we were experiencing when you introduced this law. Dear Mr Klemenčič, you are the Minister of this Government, you are the first in the Republic of Slovenia to take care of law and to watch your behaviour and to read this law, I think this onion is very strong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u358	Explanation of the vote on behalf of Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u359	Quick and quick. President, who may the presidents of these committees be? Former Constitutional Judges, former Supreme Judges, former Supreme Prosecutors, accounting judges, members of the World Bank of Slovenia, members of the KPK and the State Audit Commission. So this is a closed circle of people who will be able to lead these commissions. A complete closed circle, with regular staff involved. I stress that regular staff are: police officers, criminals, members of the Court of Auditors, members of the KPK, Bank of Slovenia, the State Audit Commission, prosecutors, lawyers, employees of the Financial Administration, the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, the Office for Budgetary Control and others. These are the people who, in their regular working hours — yes, Madam Minister, in their regular working hours — must pursue corruption. Persecute corruption. This would be much better if he did it there, in his own place, than to participate in some commissions that would be run by obviously retired or ex or whatever people you listed earlier, but you can list at least 50 people, as I said before. What is most sad is that the Commission does not have executive powers. What will the president of the government get on the table? He will receive a report that will be drawn up on the basis of interviews and discussions with people who do not need to make statements that do not need to participate in the interview, without having to answer questions and so on and so forth. What can the President of the Government do to help himself with such a report? It's nothing! But it is true that all these people will have to be paid, and so is the law. Seriously, I suggest, I advise as you wish. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] You: do not carry this law into the National Assembly anymore. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u360	Any other explanation for the voice? Another round. Okay. Please sign up. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u361	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! I think those who dealt with corruption in the Republic of Slovenia have begun to realize that the time of reckoning is coming. And when you deliberately want nothing to be resolved, you either start setting up commissions or you propose such a law as proposed by Minister Klemenčič. If we look at his previous work, how many corrupt banking issues has this Commission resolved? Zero. Not a single one! The Anti-Corruption Commission! The result? Yeah, one case, but I wouldn't have solved it if the commission didn't get an order that needs to be solved, would I? This is the result and this is now the continuation of this work. That's what you call intentionalness, how to save nothing. This is extremely bad for Slovenian peoples and for Slovenian taxpayers, if the legal system is behind it and supports such acts.
ParlaMint-SI_2015-07-10-SDZ7-Redna-10.ana.u362	So we can finally decide that the proposal for a law on systematic investigations of projects is of state importance for further consideration. Suitable, that's the conclusion. We're voting. 84 Members and Members are present. It was 55 votes against 27. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against 27.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Justice as a working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 30th item of the agenda, which is the handling of Mandate-Voluntary matters. As no matter has been drawn up by the Mandate-Electorial Commission at the meeting of the National Assembly, I interrupt this item on the agenda. I also interrupt the 10th meeting of the National Assembly, which we will continue on Monday, 13. Seven. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I wish everyone a nice weekend, no matter what you say or do in this National Assembly today. I hope that you will not be crying over the sky, but I promise citizens and citizens that by Monday we will not have to be ignored.
